getteth true tenderness of heart, true godly softness of spirit;
this truly endeareth the affections to God; and in this true
tenderness, softness, and endearedness of affection to God, lieth
the very essence of this fear of the Lord, as is manifest by the
fruit of this fear when we shall come to speak of it.

Seventh. This fear of God flows from a due consideration of the
judgments of God that are to be executed in the world; yea, upon
professors too. Yea further, God's people themselves, I mean as
to themselves, have such a consideration of his judgments towards
them, as to produce this godly fear. When God's judgments are in
the earth, they effect the fear of his name, in the hearts of his
own people--"My flesh trembleth for fear of thee, and I am," said
David, "afraid of thy judgments" (Psa 119:120). When God smote
Uzzah, David was afraid of God that day (1 Chron 13:12). Indeed,
many regard not the works of the Lord, nor take notice of the
operation of his hands, and such cannot fear the Lord. But others
observe and regard, and wisely consider of his doings, and of the
judgments that he executeth, and that makes them fear the Lord.
This God himself suggesteth as a means to make us fear him. Hence
he commands the false prophet to be stoned, "that all Israel might
hear and fear." Hence also he commanded that the rebellious son
should be stoned, "that all Israel might hear and fear." A false
witness was also to have the same judgment of God executed upon
him, "that all Israel might hear and fear." The man also that did
ought presumptuously was to die, "that all Israel might hear and
fear" (Deut 13:11, 21:21, 17:13, 19:20). There is a natural tendency
in judgments, as judgments, to beget a fear of God in the heart
of man, as man; but when the observation of the judgment of God is
made by him that hath a principle of true grace in his soul, that
observation being made, I say, by a gracious heart, produceth a
fear of God in the soul of its own nature, to wit, a gracious or
godly fear of God.

Eighth. This godly fear also flows from a godly remembrance of our
former distresses, when we were distressed with our first fears; for
though our first fears were begotten in us by the Spirit's working
as a spirit of bondage, and so are not always to be entertained
as such, yet even that fear leaveth in us, and upon our spirits,
that sense and relish of our first awakenings and dread, as also
occasioneth and produceth this godly fear. "Take heed," says God,
"and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which
thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy heart all the
days of thy life, but teach them thy sons, and thy son's sons."
But what were the things that their eyes had seen, that would so
damnify them should they be forgotten? The answer is, the things
which they saw at Horeb; to wit, the fire, the smoke, the darkness,
the earthquake, their first awakenings by the law, by which they
were brought into a bondage fear; yea, they were to remember this
especially--"Specially," saith he, "the day that thou stoodest before
the Lord thy God in Horeb, when the Lord said unto me, Gather me
the people together, and I will make them hear my words, that they
may learn to fear me all the days that they shall live upon the
earth" (Deut 4:9-11). The remembrance of what we saw, felt, feared,
and trembled under the sense of, when our first fears were upon us,
is that which will produce in our hearts this godly filial fear.

Ninth. This godly fear flows from our receiving of an answer
of prayer, when we supplicated for mercy at the hand of God. See
the proof for this--"If there be in the land famine, if there be
pestilence, blasting, mildew, locust, or if there be caterpillar;
if their enemy besiege them in the land of their cities, whatsoever
plague, whatsoever sickness there be: what prayer and supplication
soever be made by any man, or by all thy people Israel, which shall
know every man the plague of his own heart, and spread forth his
hands toward this house: then hear thou in heaven thy dwelling-place,
and forgive, and do, and give to every man according to his ways,
whose heart thou knowest (for thou, even thou only, knowest the
hearts of all the children of men). That they may fear thee all the
days of their life, that they live in the land which thou gavest
unto our fathers" (1 Kings 8:37-40).

Tenth. This grace of fear also flows from a blessed conviction of
the all-seeing eye of God; that is, from a belief that he certainly
knoweth the heart, and seeth every one of the turnings and returnings
thereof; this is intimated in the text last mentioned--"Whose heart
thou knowest, that they may fear thee," to wit, so many of them as
be, or shall be convinced of this. Indeed, without this conviction,
this godly fear cannot be in us; the want of this conviction made
the Pharisees such hypocrites--"Ye are they," said Christ, "which
justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts" (Luke
16:15). The Pharisees, I say, were not aware of this; therefore they
so much preferred themselves before those that by far were better
than themselves, and it is for want of this conviction that men go
on in such secret sins as they do, so much without fear either of
God or his judgments.[16]

Eleventh. This grace of fear also flows from a sense of the
impartial judgment of God upon men according to their works. This
also is manifest from the text mentioned above. And give unto every
man according to his works or ways, "that they may fear thee," &c.
This is also manifest by that of Peter--"And if ye call on the
Father, who without respect of persons judgeth according to every
man's work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear" (1 Peter
1:17). He that hath godly conviction of this fear of God, will
fear before him; by which fear their hearts are poised, and works
directed with trembling, according to the will of God. Thus you see
what a weighty and great grace this grace of the holy fear of God
is, and how all the graces of the Holy Ghost yield mutually their
help and strength to the nourishment and life of it; and also how
it flows from them all, and hath a dependence upon every one of
them for its due working in the heart of him that hath it. And thus
much to show you from whence it flows. And now I shall come to the
third thing, to wit, to show you

What flows from this godly fear.

THIRD. Having showed you what godly fear flows from, I come now, I
say, to show you what proceedeth or flows from this godly fear of
God, where it is seated in the heart of man. And,

First. There flows from this godly fear a godly reverence of God.
"He is great," said David, "and greatly to be feared in the assembly
of his saints." God, as I have already showed you, is the proper
object of godly fear; it is his person and majesty that this fear
always causeth the eye of the soul to be upon. "Behold," saith David,
"as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and
as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes
wait upon the Lord our God, until that he have mercy upon us" (Psa
123:2). Nothing aweth the soul that feareth God so much as doth the
glorious majesty of God. His person is above all things feared by
them; "I fear God," said Joseph (Gen 42:18). That is, more than any
other; I stand in awe of him, he is my dread, he is my fear, I do
all mine actions as in his presence, as in his sight; I reverence
his holy and glorious majesty, doing all things as with fear and
trembling before him. This fear makes them have also a very great
reverence of his Word; for that also, I told you, was the rule of
their fear. "Princes," said David, "persecuted me without a cause,
but my heart standeth in awe," in fear, "of thy word." This grace
of fear, therefore, from it flows reverence of the words of God; of
all laws, that man feareth the word; and no law that is not agreeing
therewith (Psa 119:116). There flows from this godly fear tenderness
of God's glory. This fear, I say, will cause a man to afflict his
soul, when he seeth that by professors dishonour is brought to the
name of God and to his Word. Who would not fear thee, said Jeremiah,
O king of nations, for to thee doth it appertain? He speaks it as
being affected with that dishonour, that by the body of the Jews
was continually brought to his name, his Word, and ways; he also
speaks it of a hearty wish that they once would be otherwise minded.
The same saying in effect hath also John in the Revelation--"Who
shall not fear thee, O Lord," said he, "and glorify thy name?"
(Rev 15:4); clearly concluding that godly fear produceth a godly
tenderness of God's glory in the world, for that appertaineth unto
him; that is, it is due unto him, it is a debt which we owe unto
him. "Give unto the Lord," said David, "the glory due unto his name."
Now if there be begotten in the heart of the godly, by this grace
of fear, a godly tenderness of the glory of God, then it follows
of consequence, that where they that have this fear of God do see
his glory diminished by the wickedness of the children of men,
there they are grieved and deeply distressed. "Rivers of waters,"
said David, "run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law"
(Psa 119:136). Let met give you for this these following instances--

How was David provoked when Goliath defied the God of Israel (1
Sam 17:23-29,45,46). Also, when others reproached God, he tells us
that that reproach was even as "a sword in his bones" (Psa 42:10).
How was Hezekiah afflicted when Rabshakeh railed upon his God (Isa
37). David also, for the love that he had to the glory of God's
word, ran the hazard and reproach "of all the mighty people" (Psa
119:151, 89:50). How tender of the glory of God was Eli, Daniel, and
the three children in their day. Eli died with fear and trembling
of heart when he heard that "the ark of God was taken" (1 Sam
4:14-18). Daniel ran the danger of the lions' mouths, for the tender
love that he had to the word and worship of God (Dan 6:10-16). The
three children ran the hazard of a burning fiery furnace, rather than
they would dare to dishonour the way of their God (Dan 3:13,16,20).
This therefore is one of the fruits of this godly fear, to wit, a
reverence of his name and tenderness of his glory.

Second. There flows from this godly fear, watchfulness. As it is
said of Solomon's servants, they "watched about his bed, because
of fear in the night," so it may be said of them that have this
godly fear--it makes them a watchful people. It makes them watch
their hearts, and take heed to keep them with all diligence, lest
they should, by one or another of its flights, lead them to do that
which in itself is wicked (Prov 4:23; Heb 12:15). It makes them
watch, lest some temptation from hell should enter into their heart
to the destroying of them (1 Peter 5:8). It makes them watch their
mouths, and keep them also, at sometimes, as with a bit and bridle,
that they offend not with their tongue, knowing that the tongue is
apt, being an evil member, soon to catch the fire of hell, to the
defiling of the whole body (James 3:2-7). It makes them watch over
their ways, look well to their goings, and to make straight steps
for their feet (Psa 39:1; Heb 12:13). Thus this godly fear puts the
soul upon its watch, lest from the heart within, or from the devil
without, or from the world, or some other temptation, something
should surprise and overtake the child of God to defile him, or
to cause him to defile the ways of God, and so offend the saints,
open the mouths of men, and cause the enemy to speak reproachfully
of religion.

Third. There flows from this fear a holy provocation to a reverential
converse with saints in their religious and godly assemblies, for
their further progress in the faith and way of holiness. "Then they
that feared the Lord spake often one to another." Spake, that is,
of God, and his holy and glorious name, kingdom, and works, for
their mutual edification; "a book of remembrance was written before
him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name"
(Mal 3:16). The fear of the Lord in the heart provoketh to this
in all its acts, not only of necessity, but of nature: it is the
natural effect of this godly fear, to exercise the church in the
contemplation of God, together and apart. All fear, good and bad,
hath a natural propenseness in it to incline the heart to contemplate
upon the object of fear, and though a man should labour to take
off his thoughts from the object of his fear, whether that object
was men, hell, devils, &c., yet do what he could the next time his
fear had any act in it, it would return again to its object. And
so it is with godly fear; that will make a man speak of, and think
upon, the name of God reverentially (Psa 89:7); yea, and exercise
himself in the holy thoughts of him in such sort that his soul
shall be sanctified, and seasoned with such meditations. Indeed,
holy thoughts of God, such as you see this fear doth exercise the
heart withal, prepare the heart to, and for God. This fear therefore
it is that David prayed for, for the people, when he said, "O Lord
God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel our fathers, keep this for
ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people,
and prepare their heart unto thee" (1 Chron 29:18).

Fourth. There flows from this fear of God great reverence of his
majesty, in and under the use and enjoyment of God's holy ordinances.
His ordinances are his courts and palaces, his walks and places,
where he giveth his presence to those that wait upon him in them,
in the fear of his name. And this is the meaning of that of the
apostle: "Then had the churches rest throughout all Judea, and
Galilee, and Samaria, and were edified; and, walking in the fear
of the Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were multiplied"
(Acts 9:31). "And walking"--that word intendeth their use of the
ordinances of God. They walked in all the commandments and ordinances
of the Lord blameless. This, in Old Testament language, is called,
treading God's courts, and walking in his paths. This, saith
the text, they did here, in the fear of God. That is, in a great
reverence of that God whose ordinances they were. "Ye shall keep
my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am the Lord" (Lev 19:30,
26:2).

It is one thing to be conversant in God's ordinances, and another
to be conversant in them with a due reverence of the majesty and
name of that God whose ordinances they are: it is common for men
to do the first, but none can do the last without this fear. "In
thy fear," said David, "will I worship" (Psa 5:7). It is this fear
of God, therefore, from whence doth flow that great reverence that
his saints have in them, of his majesty, in and under the use and
enjoyment of God's holy ordinances; and, consequently, that makes
our service in the performance of them acceptable to God through
Christ (Heb 12). For God expects that we serve him with fear and
trembling, and it is odious among men, for a man in the presence,
or about the service of his prince, to behave himself lightly, and
without due reverence of that majesty in whose presence and about
whose business he is. And if so, how can their service to God have
anything like acceptation from the hand of God, that is done, not
in, but without the fear of God? This service must needs be an
abomination to him, and these servers must come off with rebuke.

Fifth. There flows from this godly fear of God, self-denial. That
is, a holy abstaining from those things that are either unlawful or
inexpedient; according to that of Nehemiah, "The former governors
that had been before me, were chargeable unto the people, that had
taken of them bread and wine, beside forty shekels of silver, yea,
even their servants bare rule over the people: but so did not I,
because of the fear of God" (Neh 5:15).[17]

Here not was self-denial; he would not do as they did that went
before him, neither himself, nor should his servants; but what was
it that put him upon these acts of self-denial? The answer is, the
fear of God: "but so did not I, because of the fear of God."

Now, whether by the fear of God in this place be meant his Word, or
the grace of fear in his heart, may perhaps be a scruple to some,
but in my judgment the text must have respect to the latter, to wit,
to the grace of fear, for without that being indeed in the heart,
the word will not produce that good self-denial in us, that here
you find this good man to live in the daily exercise of. The fear
of God, therefore, that was the cause of his self-denial, was
this grace of fear in his heart. This made him to be, as was said
before, tender of the honour of God, and of the salvation of his
brother: yea, so tender, that rather than he would give an occasion
to the weak to stumble, or be offended, he would even deny himself
of that which others never sticked to do. Paul also, through the
sanctifying operations of this fear of God in his heart, did deny
himself even of lawful things, for the profit and commodity of his
brother--"I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make
my brother to offend"; that is, if his eating of it would make his
brother to offend (1 Cor 8:13).

Men that have not this fear of God in them, will not, cannot deny
themselves--of love to God, and the good of the weak, who are
subject to stumble at indifferent things--but where this grace of
fear is, there follows self-denial; there men are tender of offending;
and count that it far better becomes their profession to be of a
self-denying, condescending conversation and temper, than to stand
sturdily to their own liberty in things inexpedient, whoever is
offended thereat. This grace of fear, therefore, is a very excellent
thing, because it yieldeth such excellent fruit as this. For this
self-denial, of how little esteem soever it be with some, yet the
want of it, if the words of Christ be true, as they are, takes
quite away from even a professor the very name of a disciple (Matt
10:37,38; Luke 14:26,27,33). They, says Nehemiah, lorded it over
the brethren, but so did not I. They took bread and wine, and
forty shekels of silver of them, but so did not I; yea, even their
servants bare rule over the people, "but so did not I, because of
the fear of God."

Sixth. There flows from this godly fear of God "singleness of heart"
(Col 3:22). Singleness of heart both to God and man; singleness of
heart, that is it which in another place is called sincerity and
godly simplicity, and it is this, when a man doth a thing simply
for the sake of him or of the law that commands it, without respect
to this by-end,[18]

or that desire of praise or of vain-glory from others; I say, when
our obedience to God is done by us simply or alone for God's sake,
for his Word's sake, without any regard to this or that by-end or
reserve, "not with eye-service, as men-pleasers, but in singleness
of heart, fearing God." A man is more subject to nothing than to
swerve from singleness of heart in his service to God, and obedience
to his will. How doth the Lord charge the children of Israel, and
all their obedience, and that for seventy years together, with
the want of singleness of heart towards him--"When ye fasted and
mourned in the fifth and seventh month, even those seventy years,
did ye at all fast unto me, even to me? And when ye did eat, and
when ye did drink, did not ye eat for yourselves, and drink for
yourselves?" (Zech 7:5,6).

They wanted this singleness of heart in their fasting, and in their
eating, in their mourning, and in their drinking; they had double
hearts in what they did. They did not as the apostle bids; "whether
ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of
God." And the reason of their want of this thing was, they wanted
this fear of God; for that, as the apostle here saith, effecteth
singleness of heart to God, and makes a man, as John said of Gaius,
"do faithfully whatsoever he doth" (3 John 5). And the reason is,
as hath been already urged, for that grace of fear of God retaineth
and keepeth upon the heart a reverent and awful sense of the dread
majesty and all-seeing eye of God, also a due consideration of the
day of account before him; it likewise maketh his service sweet
and pleasing, and fortifies the soul against all discouragements;
by this means, I say, the soul, in its service to God or man, is
not so soon captivated as where there is not this fear, but through
and by it its service is accepted, being single, sincere, simple,
and faithful; when others, with what they do, are cast into hell
for their hypocrisy, for they mix not what they do with godly fear.
Singleness of heart in the service of God is of such absolute
necessity, that without it, as I have hinted, nothing can be accepted;
because where that is wanting, there wanteth love to God, and to
that which is true holiness indeed. It was this singleness of heart
that made Nathanael so honourable in the eyes of Jesus Christ.
"Behold," said he, "an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no
guile" (John 1:47). And it was the want of it that made him so much
abhor the Pharisees. They wanted sincerity, simplicity, and godly
sincerity in their souls, and so became an abhorrence in his esteem.
Now, I say, this golden grace, singleness of heart, it flows from
this godly fear of God.

Seventh. There flows from this godly fear of God, compassion and
bowels to those of the saints that are in necessity and distress.
This is manifest in good Obadiah; it is said of him, "That he took
an hundred" of the Lord's "prophets, and hid them by fifty in a
cave, and fed them with bread and water," in the days when Jezebel,
that tyrant, sought their lives to destroy them (1 Kings 18:3,4).
But what was it that moved so upon his heart, as to cause him to
do this thing? Why, it was this blessed grace of the fear of God.
"Now Obadiah," saith the text, "feared the Lord greatly, for it
was so, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord, that Obadiah
took an hundred prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed
them with bread and water." This was charity to the distressed,
even to the distressed for the Lord's sake.

Had not Obadiah served the Lord, yea, had he not greatly feared him,
he would not have been able to do this thing, especially as the
case then stood with him, and also with the church at that time,
for then Jezebel sought to slay all that indeed feared the Lord;
yea, and the persecution prevailed so much at that time, that even
Elijah himself thought that she had killed all but him. But now,
even now, the fear of God in this good man's heart put forth itself
into acts of mercy though attended with so imminent danger. See
here, therefore, that the fear of God will put forth itself in the
heart where God hath put it, even to show kindness, and to have
compassion upon the distressed servants of God, even under Jezebel's
nose; for Obadiah dwelt in Ahab's house, and Jezebel was Ahab's
wife, and a horrible persecutor, as was said before: yet Obadiah
will show mercy to the poor because he feared God, yea, he will
venture her displeasure, his place, and neck, and all, but he will
be merciful to his brethren in distress. Cornelius, also, being
a man possessed with this fear of God, became a very free-hearted
and open-handed man to the poor--"He feared God, and gave much
alms to the people." Indeed this fear, this godly fear of God, it
is a universal grace; it will stir up the soul unto all good duties.
It is a fruitful grace; from it, where it is, floweth abundance of
excellent virtues; nor without it can there be anything good, or
done well, that is done. But,

Eighth. There flows from this fear of God hearty, fervent, and
constant prayer. This also is seen in Cornelius, that devout man.
He feared God; and what then? why, he gave much alms to the people,
"and prayed to God alway" (Acts 10:1,2).

Did I say that hearty, fervent, and constant prayer flowed from
this fear of God? I will add, that if the whole duty, and the
continuation of it, be not managed with this fear of God, it profiteth
nothing at all. It is said of our Lord Jesus Christ himself, "He
was heard in that he feared." He prayed, then, because he feared,
because he feared God, and therefore was his prayer accepted of
him, even because he feared--"He was heard in that he feared" (Heb
5:7). This godly fear is so essential to right prayer, and right
prayer is such an inseparable effect and fruit of this fear, that
you must have both or none; he that prayeth not feareth not God,
yea, he that prayeth not fervently and frequently feareth him not;
and so he that feareth him not cannot pray; for if prayer be the
effect of this fear of God, then without this fear, prayer, fervent
prayer, ceaseth. How can they pray or make conscience of the duty
that fear not God? O prayerless man, thou fearest not God! Thou
wouldest not live so like a swine or a dog in the world as thou
dost, if thou fearest the Lord.

Ninth. There floweth from this fear of God a readiness or
willingness, at God's call, to give up our best enjoyments to his
disposal. This is evident in Abraham, who at God's call, without
delay, rose early in the morning to offer up his only and well-beloved
Isaac a burnt-offering in the place where God should appoint him.
It was a rare thing that Abraham did; and had he not had this rare
grace, this fear of God, he would not, he could not have done to
God's liking so wonderful a thing. It is true the Holy Ghost also
makes this service of Abraham to be the fruit of his faith--"By
faith Abraham offered up Isaac, and he that had received the promises
offered up his only-begotten son" (Heb 11; James 2). Aye, and
without doubt love unto God, in Abraham, was not wanting in this
his service, nor was this grace of fear; nay, in the story where
it is recorded. There it is chiefly accounted for the fruit of his
godly fear, and that by an angel from heaven--"And the angel called
out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here am
I. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou
anything unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou
hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me" (Gen 22:11,12).
Now I know it; now, now thou hast offered up thine only Isaac, thine
all, at the bidding of thy God. Now I know it. The fear of God is
not presently discerned in the heart and life of a man. Abraham had
long before this done many a holy duty, and showed much willingness
of heart to observe and do the will of God; yet you find not, as
I remember, that he had this testimony from heaven that he feared
God till now; but now he has it, now he has it from heaven. "Now I
know that thou fearest God." Many duties may be done--though I do
not say that Abraham did them--without the fear of God; but when
a man shall not stick at, or withhold, his darling from God, when
called upon by God to offer it up unto him, that declareth, yea,
and gives conviction to angels, that now he feareth God.

Tenth. There floweth from this godly fear humility of mind. This
is evident, because, when the apostle cautions the Romans against
the venom of spiritual pride, he directs them to the exercise of
this blessed grace of fear as its antidote. "Be not high-minded,"
saith he, "but fear" (Rom 11:20). Pride, spiritual pride, which is
here set forth by the word "high-minded," is a sin of a very high
and damnable nature; it was the sin of the fallen angels, and is
that which causeth men to fall into the same condemnation--"Lest
being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of the
devil." Pride, I say, it damns a professor with the damnation of
devils, with the damnation of hell, and therefore it is a deadly,
deadly sin. Now against this deadly sin is set the grace of
humility; that comely garment, for so the apostle calls it, saying,
"be clothed with humility." But the question is now, how we should
attain to, and live in, the exercise of this blessed and comely
grace? to which the apostle answers, Fear; be afraid with godly fear,
and thence will flow humility--"Be not high-minded, but fear." That
is, Fear, or be continually afraid and jealous of yourselves, and
of your own naughty hearts, also fear lest at some time or other
the devil, your adversary, should have advantage of you. Fear,
lest by forgetting what you are by nature, you also forget the need
that you have of continual pardon, support, and supplies from the
Spirit of grace, and so grow proud of your own abilities, or of
what you have received of God, and fall into the condemnation of
the devil. Fear, and that will make you little in your own eyes,
keep you humble, put you upon crying to God for protection, and
upon lying at his foot for mercy; that will also make you have low
thoughts of your own parts, your own doings, and cause you to prefer
your brother before yourself, and so you will walk in humiliation,
and be continually under the teachings of God, and under his conduct
in your way. The humble, God will teach--"The meek will he guide
in judgment, the meek will he teach his way." From this grace of
fear then flows this excellent and comely thing, humility; yea, it
also is maintained by this fear. Fear takes off a man from trusting
to himself, it puts a man upon trying of all things, it puts a man
upon desiring counsel and help from heaven, it makes a man ready
and willing to hear instruction, and makes a man walk lowly, softly,
and so securely in the way.

Eleventh. There flows from this grace of fear, hope in the mercy
of God--"The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in them
that hope in his mercy" (Psa 147:11). The latter part of the text
is an explanation of the former: as if the psalmist had said, They
be the men that fear the Lord, even they that hope in his mercy;
for true fear produceth hope in God's mercy. And it is further
manifest thus. Fear, true fear of God inclineth the heart to a
serious inquiry after that way of salvation which God himself hath
prescribed; now the way that God hath appointed, by the which the
sinner is to obtain the salvation of his soul, is his mercy as so
and so set forth in the Word, and godly fear hath special regard
to the Word. To this way, therefore, the sinner with this godly
fear submits his soul, rolls himself upon it, and so is delivered
from that death into which others, for want of this fear of God,
do headlong fall.

It is, as I also hinted before, the nature of godly fear to be very
much putting the soul upon the inquiry which is, and which is not,
the thing approved of God, and accordingly to embrace it or shun
it. Now I say, this fear having put the soul upon a strict and
serious inquiry after the way of salvation, at last it finds it to
be by the mercy of God in Christ; therefore this fear putteth the
soul upon hoping also in him for eternal life and blessedness; by
which hope he doth not only secure his soul, but becomes a portion
of God's delight--"The Lord takes pleasure in them that fear him,
in them that hope in his mercy."

Besides, this godly fear carrieth in it self-evidence that the state
of the sinner is happy, because possessed with this happy grace.
Therefore, as John saith, "We know we have passed from death unto
life, because we love the brethren" (1 John 3:14). So here, "The
Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in them that hope in
his mercy." If I fear God, and if my fearing of him is a thing in
which he taketh such pleasure, then may I boldly venture to roll
myself for eternal life into the bosom of his mercy, which is
Christ. This fear also produceth hope; if therefore, poor sinner,
thou knowest thyself to be one that is possessed with this fear of
God, suffer thyself to be persuaded therefore to hope in the mercy
of God for salvation, for the Lord takes pleasure in thee. And it
delights him to see thee hope in his mercy.

Twelfth. There floweth from this godly fear of God an honest and
conscientious use of all those means which God hath ordained, that
we should be conversant in for our attaining salvation. Faith and
hope in God's mercy is that which secureth our justification and
hope, and as you have heard, they do flow from this fear. But now,
besides faith and hope, there is a course of life in those things
in which God hath ordained us to have our conversation, without
which there is no eternal life. "Ye have your fruit unto holiness,
and the end everlasting life"; and again, "without holiness no man
shall see the Lord." Not that faith and hope are deficient, if they
be right, but they are both of them counterfeit when not attended
with a reverent use of all the means: upon the reverent use of which
the soul is put by this grace of fear. "Wherefore, beloved," said
Paul, "as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but
now much more in mine absence, work out your own salvation with
fear and trembling" (Rom 6:22; Heb 12:14; Phil 2:11).

There is a faith and hope of mercy that may deceive a man (though
the faith of God's elect, and the hope that purifies the heart
never will), because they are alone, and not attended with those
companions that accompany salvation (Heb 6:3-8). But now this godly
fear carries in its bowels, not only a moving of the soul to faith
and hope in God's mercy, but an earnest provocation to the holy
and reverent use of all the means that God has ordained for a man
to have his conversation in, in order to his eternal salvation.
"Work out your salvation with fear." Not that work is meritorious,
or such that can purchase eternal life, for eternal life is obtained
by hope in God's mercy; but this hope, if it be right, is attended
with this godly fear, which fear putteth the soul upon a diligent
use of all those means that may tend to the strengthening of hope,
and so to the making of us holy in all manner of conversation, that
we may be meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in
light. For hope purifieth the heart, if fear of God shall be its
companion, and so maketh a man a vessel of mercy prepared unto
glory. Paul bids Timothy to fly pride, covetousness, doting about
questions, and the like, and to "follow after righteousness,
godliness, faith, love, patience; to fight the good fight of faith,
and to lay hold on eternal life" (1 Tim 6).

So Peter bids that we "add to our faith virtue; and to virtue
knowledge; and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience;
and to patience godliness; and to godliness brotherly kindness;
and to brotherly kindness charity"; adding, "for if these things
be in you and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren
nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Wherefore
the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and
election sure; for if ye do these things, ye shall never fall. For
so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the
everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ" (2 Peter
1:5-11). The sum of all which is that which was mentioned before;
to wit, "to work out our own salvation with fear and trembling."
For none of these things can be conscientiously done, but by and
with the help of this blessed grace of fear.

Thirteenth. There flows from this fear, this godly fear, a great delight
in the holy commands of God, that is, a delight to be conformable
unto them. "Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, that delighteth
greatly in his commandments" (Psa 112:1). This confirmeth that
which was said before, to wit, that this fear provoketh to a holy
and reverent use of the means; for that cannot be, when there is
not an holy, yea, a great delight in the commandments. Wherefore
this fear maketh the sinner to abhor that which is sin, because that
is contrary to the object of his delight. A man cannot delight
himself at the same time in things directly opposite one to another,
as sin and the holy commandment is; therefore Christ saith of the
servant, he cannot love God and mammon--"Ye cannot serve God and
mammon." If he cleaves to the one, he must hate and despise the
other; there cannot at the same time be service to both, because
that themselves are at enmity one with the other. So is sin
and the commandment. Therefore if a man delighteth himself in the
commandment, he hateth that which is opposite, which is sin: how
much more when he greatly delighteth in the commandment? Now, this
holy fear of God it taketh the heart and affections from sin, and
setteth them upon the holy commandment. Therefore such a man is
rightly esteemed blessed. For no profession makes a man blessed
but that which is accompanied with an alienation of the heart from
sin, nor doth anything do that when this holy fear is wanting.
It is from this fear then, that love to, and delight in, the holy
commandment floweth, and so by that the sinner is kept from those
falls and dangers of miscarrying that other professors are so
subject to: he greatly delights in the commandment.

Fourteenth. Lastly, There floweth from this fear of God, enlargement
of heart. "Then thou shalt see, and flow together, and thine heart
shall fear, and be enlarged" (Isa 60:5). "Thine heart shall fear,
and be enlarged," enlarged to God-ward, enlarged to his ways,
enlarged to his holy people, enlarged in love after the salvation
of others. Indeed when this fear of God is wanting, though the
profession be never so famous, the heart is shut up and straitened,
and nothing is done in that princely free spirit which is called
"the spirit of the fear of the Lord" (Psa 51:12; Isa 11:2). But with
grudging, legally, or with desire of vain-glory, this enlargedness
of heart is wanting, for that flows from this fear of the Lord.

Thus have I showed you both what this fear of God is, what it flows
from, and also what doth flow from it. I come now to show you some

OF THE PRIVILEGES OF THEM THAT THUS DO FEAR THE LORD.

Having thus briefly handled in particular thus far this fear of
God, I shall now show you certain of the excellent privileges of
them that fear the Lord, not that they are not privileges that have
been already mentioned; for what greater privileges than to have
this fear producing in the soul such excellent things so necessary
for us for good, both with reference to this world, and that which
is to come? But because those fourteen above named do rather flow
from this grace of fear where it is, than from a promise to the
person that hath it, therefore I have chosen rather to discourse
of them as the fruits and effects of fear, than otherwise. Now,
besides all these, there is entailed by promise to the man that hath
this fear many other blessed privileges, the which I shall now in
a brief way lay open unto you.

First Privilege, then. That man that feareth the Lord, has a grant
and a license "to trust in the Lord," with an affirmation that
he is their help, and their shield--"Ye that fear the Lord, trust
in the Lord; he is their help and their shield" (Psa 115:11). Now
what a privilege is this! an exhortation in general to sinners, as
sinners, to trust in him, is a privilege great and glorious; but
for a man to be singled out from his neighbours, for a man to be
spoken to from heaven, as it were by name, and to be told that God
hath given him a license, a special and peculiar grant to trust in
him, this is abundantly more; and yet this is the grant that God
hath given that man! He hath, I say, a license to do it--a license
indicted by the Holy Ghost, and left upon record for those to be
born that shall fear the Lord, to trust in him. And not only so, but
as the text affirmeth, "he is their help and their shield." Their
help under all their weaknesses and infirmities, and a shield to
defend them against all the assaults of the devil and this world.
So then, the man that feareth the Lord is licensed to make the
Lord his stay and God of his salvation, the succour and deliverer
of his soul. He will defend him because his fear is in his heart.
O ye servants of the Lord, ye that fear him, live in the comfort of
this; boldly make use of it when you are in straits, and put your
trust under the shadow of his wings, for indeed he would have you
do so, because you do fear the Lord.

Second Privilege. God hath also proclaimed concerning the man that
feareth the Lord, that he will also be his teacher and guide in
the way that he shall choose, and hath moreover promised concerning
such, that their soul shall dwell at ease--"What man is he that
feareth the Lord?" says David, "him shall he teach in the way that
he shall choose" (Psa 25:12). Now, to be taught of God, what like
it? yea, what like to be taught in the way that thou shalt choose?
Thou hast chosen the way to life, God's way; but perhaps thy
ignorance about it is so great, and those that tempt thee to turn
aside so many and so subtle, that they seem to outwit thee and
confound thee with their guile. Well, but the Lord whom thou fearest
will not leave thee to thy ignorance, nor yet to thine enemies'
power or subtlety, but will take it upon himself to be thy teacher
and thy guide, and that in the way that thou hast chosen. Hear,
then, and behold thy privilege, O thou that fearest the Lord; and
whoever wanders, turns aside, and swerveth from the way of salvation,
whoever is benighted, and lost in the midst of darkness, thou shalt
find the way to the heaven and the glory that thou hast chosen.

Further, He doth not only say, that he will teach them the way, for
that must of necessity be supplied, but he says also that he will
teach such in it--"Him shall he teach in the way that he shall
choose." This argueth that, as thou shalt know, so the way shall
be made, by the communion that thou shalt have with God therein,
sweet and pleasant to thee. For this text promiseth unto the man
that feareth the Lord, the presence, company, and discovery of the
mind of God, while he is going in the way that he hath chosen. It
is said of the good scribe, that he is instructed unto, as well as
into, the way of the kingdom of God (Matt 13:52). Instructed unto;
that is, he hath the heart and mind of God still discovered to him
in the way that he hath chosen, even all the way from this world
to that which is to come, even until he shall come to the very gate
and door of heaven. What the disciples said was the effect of the
presence of Christ, to wit, "that their hearts did burn within
them while he talked to them by the way," shall be also fulfilled
in thee, he will meet with thee in the way, talk with thee in the
way; he will teach thee in the way that thou shalt choose (Luke
24:32).

Third Privilege. Dost thou fear the Lord? he will open his secret
unto thee, even that which he hath hid and keeps close from all
the world, to wit, the secret of his covenant and of thy concern
therein--"The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and
he will shew them his covenant" (Psa 25:14). This, then, further
confirmeth what was said but just above; his secret shall be with
them, and his covenant shall be showed unto them. His secret, to
wit, that which hath been kept hid from ages and generations; that
which he manifesteth only to the saints, or holy ones; that is, his
Christ, for he it is that is hid in God, and that no man can know
but he to whom the Father shall reveal him (Matt 11:27).

But O! what is there wrapped up in this Christ, this secret of God?
why, all treasures of life, of heaven, and happiness--"In him are
hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge." And "in him dwelleth
all the fulness of the Godhead bodily" (Col 2).

This also is that hidden One, that is so full of grace to save
sinners, and so full of truth and faithfulness to keep promise and
covenant with them, that their eyes must needs convey, even by
every glance they make upon his person, offices, and relation, such
affecting ravishments to the heart, that it would please them that
see him, even to be killed with that sight. This secret of the
Lord shall be, nay is, with them that fear him, for he dwelleth in
their heart by faith. "And he will shew them his covenant." That is,
the covenant that is confirmed of God in Christ, that everlasting
and eternal covenant, and show him too that he himself is wrapped
up therein, as in a bundle of life with the Lord his God. These
are the thoughts, purposes, and promises of God to them that fear
him.

Fourth Privilege. Dost thou fear the Lord? his eye is always over
thee for good, to keep thee from all evil--"Behold the eye of the
Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy;
to deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine"
(Psa 33:18,19). His eye is upon them; that is, to watch over them
for good. He that keepeth Israel neither slumbers nor sleeps. His
eyes are upon them, and he will keep them as a shepherd doth his
sheep; that is, from those wolves that seek to devour them, and
to swallow them up in death. His eyes are upon them; for they are
the object of his delight, the rarities of the world, in whom, saith
he, is all my delight. His eye is upon them, as I said before, to
teach and instruct them--"I will instruct thee and teach thee in
the way which thou shalt go; I will guide thee with mine eye" (Psa
32:8; 2 Chron 7:15,16). The eye of the Lord, therefore, is upon
them, not to take advantage of them, to destroy them for their sins,
but to guide, to help, and deliver them from death; from that death
that would feed upon their souls--"To deliver their soul from
death and to keep them alive in famine." Take death here for death
spiritual, and death eternal; and the famine here, not for that
that is for want of bread and water, but for that which comes on
many for want of the Word of the Lord (Rev 20:14; Amos 8:11,12);
and then the sense is this, the man that feareth the Lord shall
neither die spiritually nor eternally; for God will keep him with
his eye from all those things that would in such a manner kill
him. Again, should there be a famine of the Word; should there want
both the Word and them that preach it in the place that thou dost
dwell, yet bread shall be given thee, and thy water shall be sure;
thou shalt not die of the famine, because thou fearest God. I say,
that man shall not, behold he shall not, because he feareth God,
and this the next head doth yet more fully manifest.

Fifth Privilege. Dost thou fear God? fear him for this advantage
more and more--"O fear the Lord, ye his saints, for there is no want
to them that fear him. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger,
but they that seek the Lord," that fear him, "shall not want any
good thing" (Psa 34:9,10). Not anything that God sees good for them
shall those men want that fear the Lord. If health will do them
good, if sickness will do them good, if riches will do them good,
if poverty will do them good, if life will do them good, if death
will do them good, then they shall not want them, neither shall any
of these come nigh them, if they will not do them good. The lions,
the wicked people [19] of the world that fear not God, are not
made sharers in this great privilege; all things fall out to them
contrary, because they fear not God. In the midst of their sufficiency,
they are in want of that good that God puts into the worst things
that the man that feareth God doth meet with in the world.

Sixth Privilege. Dost thou fear God? he hath given charge to the
armies of heaven to look after, take charge of, to camp about,
and to deliver thee--"The angel of the Lord encampeth round about
them that fear him, and delivereth them" (Psa 34:7). This also is
a privilege entailed to them that in all generations fear the Lord.
The angels, the heavenly creatures, have it in commission to take
the charge of them that fear the Lord; one of them is able to slay of
men in one night 185,000. These are they that camped about Elisha
like horses of fire, and chariots of fire, when the enemy came
to destroy him. They also helped Hezekiah against the band of the
enemy, because he feared God (2 Kings 6:17; Isa 37:36; Jer 26:19).
"The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them"; that is, lest
the enemy should set upon them on any side; but let him come where
he will, behind or before, on this side or that, the angel of the
Lord is there to defend them. "The angel." It may be spoken in the
singular number, perhaps, to show that every one that feareth God
hath his angel to attend on him, and serve him. When the church,
in the Acts, was told that Peter stood at the door and knocked; at
first they counted the messenger mad, but when she did constantly
affirm it, they said, It is his angel (Acts 12:13-15). So Christ
saith of the children that came unto him, "their angels behold
the face of my Father which is in heaven." Their angels; that is,
those of them that feared God, had each of them his angel, who had
a charge from God to keep them in their way. We little think of
this, yet this is the privilege of them that fear the Lord; yea,
if need be, they shall all come down to help them and to deliver
them, rather than, contrary to the mind of their God, they should
by any be abused--"Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth
to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?" (Heb 1:14).

[Quest.] But how do they deliver them? for so says the text--"The
angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and
delivereth them." Answ. The way that they take to deliver them
that fear the Lord, is sometimes by smiting of their enemies with
blindness, that they may not find them; and so they served the
enemies of Lot (Gen 19:10,11). Sometimes by smiting of them with
deadly fear; and so they served those that laid siege against
Samaria (2 Kings 7:6). And sometimes by smiting of them even with
death itself; and thus they served Herod, after he had attempted
to kill the apostle James, and also sought to vex certain others of
the church (Acts 12). These angels that are servants to them that
fear the Lord, are them that will, if God doth bid them, revenge
the quarrel of his servants upon the stoutest monarch on earth.
This, therefore, is a glorious privilege of the men that fear the
Lord. Alas! they are, some of them, so mean that they are counted
not worth taking notice of by the high ones of the world; but their
betters do respect them. The angels of God count not themselves
too good to attend on them, and camp about them to deliver them.
This, then, is the man that hath his angel to wait upon him, even
he that feareth God.

Seventh Privilege. Dost thou fear the Lord? salvation is nigh unto
thee--"Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, that glory
may dwell in our land" (Psa 85:9). This is another privilege for
them that fear the Lord. I told you before, that the angel of the
Lord did encamp about them, but now he saith, "his salvation is
also nigh them"; the which although it doth not altogether exclude
the conduct of angels,[20] but include them; yet it looketh further.
"Surely his salvation," his saving, pardoning grace, "is nigh them
that fear him"; that is, to save them out of the hand of their
spiritual enemies. The devil, and sin, and death, do always wait
even to devour them that fear the Lord, but to deliver them from
these his salvation doth attend them. So then, if Satan tempts,
here is their salvation nigh; if sin, by breaking forth, beguiles
them, here is God's salvation nigh them; yea, if death itself shall
suddenly seize upon them, why, here is their God's salvation nigh
them.

I have seen that great men's little children must go no whither
without their nurses be at hand. If they go abroad, their nurses
must go with them; if they go to meals, their nurses must go with
them; if they go to bed, their nurses must go with them; yea, and
if they fall asleep, their nurses must stand by them. O my brethren,
those little ones that fear the Lord, they are the children of the
highest, therefore they shall not walk alone, be at their spiritual
meats alone, go to their sick-beds, or to their graves alone; the
salvation of their God is nigh them, to deliver them from the evil.
This is then the glory that dwells in the land of them that fear
the Lord.

Eighth Privilege. Dost thou fear the Lord? hearken yet again--"The
mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them
that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children" (Psa
103:17). This still confirms what was last asserted, that is, that
his salvation is nigh unto them. His salvation, that is, pardoning
mercy, that is nigh them. But mind it, there he says it is nigh
them; but here it is upon them. His mercy is upon them, it covereth
them all over, it encompasseth them about as with a shield. Therefore
they are said in another place to be clothed with salvation,
and covered with the robe of righteousness. The mercy of the Lord
is upon them, that is, as I said, to shelter and defend them. The
mercy, the pardoning preserving mercy, the mercy of the Lord is
upon them, who is he then that can condemn them? (Rom 8).

But there yet is more behind, "The mercy of the Lord is from
everlasting to everlasting upon them." It was designed for them
before the world was, and shall be upon them when the world itself
is ended; from everlasting to everlasting it is on them that fear
him. This from everlasting to everlasting is that by which, in another
place, the eternity of God himself is declared--"From everlasting
to everlasting, thou art God" (Psa 90:2). The meaning, then, may
be this; that so long as God hath his being, so long shall the
man that feareth him find mercy at his hand. According to that
of Moses--"The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the
everlasting arms; and he shall thrust out the enemy from before
thee, and shall say, Destroy them" (Deut 33:27).

Child of God, thou that fearest God, here is mercy nigh thee, mercy
enough, everlasting mercy upon thee. This is long-lived mercy. It
will live longer than thy sin, it will live longer than temptation,
it will live longer than thy sorrows, it will live longer than thy
persecutors. It is mercy from everlasting to contrive thy salvation,
and mercy to everlasting to weather it out with all thy adversaries.
Now what can hell and death do to him that hath this mercy of God
upon him? And this hath the man that feareth the Lord. Take that
other blessed word, and O thou man that fearest the Lord, hang it
like a chain of gold about thy neck--"As the heaven is high above
the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him" (Psa
103:11). If mercy as big, as high, and as good as heaven itself
will be a privilege, the man that feareth God shall have a privilege.

Ninth Privilege. Dost thou fear God?--"Like as a father pitieth
his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him" (Psa 103:13).

" The Lord pitieth them that fear him"; that is, condoleth and is
affected, feeleth and sympathizeth with them in all their afflictions.
It is a great matter for a poor man to be in this manner in the
affections of the great and mighty, but for a poor sinner to be
thus in the heart and affections of God, and they that fear him are
so, this is astonishing to consider. "In his love and in his pity
he redeemed them." In his love and in his pity! "In all their
affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved
them; in his love and in his pity he redeemed them, and he bare
them, and carried them all the days of old" (Isa 63:9). I say, in
that he is said to pity them, it is as much as to say, he condoleth,
feeleth, and sympathizeth with them in all their afflictions and
temptations. So that this is the happiness of him that feareth God,
he has a God to pity him and to be touched with all his miseries.
It is said in Judges, "His soul was grieved for the misery of
Israel" (Judg 10:16). And in the Hebrews, he is "touched with the
feeling of our infirmities," and can "succour them that are tempted"
(4:15, 2:17,18).

But further, let us take notice of the comparison. "As a father
pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him." Here
is not only pity, but the pity of a relation, a father. It is said
in another place; "Can a woman," a mother, "forget her sucking
child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb?
yea, they may, yet will not I forget thee." The pity of neighbours
and acquaintance helpeth in times of distress, but the pity of
a father and a mother is pity with an over and above. "The Lord,"
says James, "is very pitiful, and of tender mercy." Pharaoh called
Joseph his tender father,[21] because he provided for him against
the famine, but how tender a father is God! how full of bowels!
how full of pity! (James 5:11; Gen 41:43). It is said, that when
Ephraim was afflicted, God's bowels were troubled for him, and turned
within him towards him. O that the man that feareth the Lord did
but believe the pity and bowels that are in the heart of God and
his father towards him (Jer 31:18-20).

Tenth Privilege. Dost thou fear God?--"He will fulfil the desire
of them that fear him; he also will hear their cry, and will save
them" (Psa 145:19). Almost all those places that make mention of
the men that fear God, do insinuate as if they still were under
affliction, or in danger by reason of an enemy. But I say, here
is still their privilege, their God is their father and pities
them--"He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him." Where now
is the man that feareth the Lord? let him hearken to this. What
sayest thou, poor soul? will this content thee, the Lord will fulfil
thy desires? It is intimated of Adonijah, that David his father
did let him have his head and his will in all things. "His father,"
says the text, "had not displeased him at any time in (so much as)
saying, Why hast thou done so?" (1 Kings 1:6). But here is more,
here is a promise to grant thee the whole desire of thy heart,
according to the prayer of holy David, "The Lord grant thee, according
to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy counsel." And again, "The
Lord fulfil all thy petitions" (Psa 20).

O thou that fearest the Lord, what is thy desire? All my desire,
says David, is all my salvation (2 Sam 23:5), so sayest thou, "All
my salvation" is "all my desire." Well, the desire of thy soul is
granted thee, yea, God himself hath engaged himself even to fulfil
this thy desire--"He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him,
he also will hear their cry, and will save them." O this desire when
it cometh, what a tree of life will it be to thee! Thou desirest
to be rid of thy present trouble; the Lord shall rid thee out of
trouble. Thou desirest to be delivered from temptation; the Lord
shall deliver thee out of temptation. Thou desirest to be delivered
from thy body of death; and the Lord shall change this thy vile
body, that it may be like to his glorious body. Thou desirest to
be in the presence of God, and among the angels in heaven. This
thy desire also shall be fulfilled, and thou shalt be made equal
to the angels (Exo 6:6; 2 Peter 2:9; Phil 3:20,21; Luke 16:22,
20:35,36). O but it is long first! Well, learn first to live upon
thy portion in the promise of it, and that will make thy expectation
of it sweet. God will fulfil thy desires, God will do it, though
it tarry long. Wait for it, because it will surely come, it will
not tarry.

Eleventh Privilege. Dost thou fear God?--"The Lord taketh pleasure
in them that fear him" (Psa 147:11). They that fear God are among
his chief delights. He delights in his Son, he delights in his works,
and takes pleasure in them that fear him. As a man takes pleasure
in his wife, in his children, in his gold, in his jewels; so the
man that fears the Lord is the object of his delight. He takes
pleasure in their prosperity, and therefore sendeth them health from
the sanctuary, and makes them drink of the river of his pleasures
(Psa 35:27). "They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness
of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy
pleasures" (Psa 36:8). That or those that we take pleasure in,
that or those we love to beautify and adorn with many ornaments.
We count no cost too much to be bestowed on those in whom we place
our delight, and whom we make the object of our pleasure. And even
thus it is with God. "For the Lord taketh pleasure in his people,"
and what follows? "he will beautify the meek with salvation" (Psa
149:4).

Those in whom we delight, we take pleasure in their actions; yea,
we teach them, and give them such rules and laws to walk by, as may
yet make them that we love more pleasurable in our eyes. Therefore
they that fear God, since they are the object of his pleasure, are
taught to know how to please him in everything (1 Thess 4:1). And
hence it is said, that he is ravished with their looks, that he
delighteth in their cry, and that he is pleased with their walking
(Can 4:9; Prov 15:8, 11:20).

Those in whom we delight and take pleasure, many things we will
bear and put up that they do, though they be not according to our
minds. A man will suffer that in, and put up that at, the hand
of the child or wife of his pleasure, that he will not pass by nor
put up in another. They are my jewels, says God, even them that
fear me; and I will spare them, in all their comings-short of my
will, "even as a man spareth his own son that serveth him" (Mal
3:16,17). O how happy is the man that feareth God! His good thoughts,
his good attempts to serve him, and his good life pleases him,
because he feareth God.

You know how pleasing in our eyes the actions of our children are,
when we know that they do what they do even of a reverent fear and
awe of us; yea, though that which they do amounts but to little, we
take it well at their hands, and are pleased therewith. The woman
that cast in her two mites into the treasury, cast in not much, for
they both did but make one farthing; yet how doth the Lord Jesus
trumpet her up,[22] he had pleasure in her, and in her action (Mark
12:41-44). This, therefore, that the Lord taketh pleasure in them
that fear him, is another of their great privileges.

Twelfth Privilege. Dost thou fear God? the least dram of that fear
giveth the privilege to be blessed with the biggest saint--"He will
bless them that fear the Lord, small and great" (Psa 115:13). This
word small may be taken three ways--1. For those that are small
in esteem, for those that are but little accounted of (Judg 6:15;
1 Sam 18:23). Art thou small or little in this sense, yet if thou
fearest God, thou art sure to be blessed. "He will bless them that
fear him, small and great," be thou never so small in the world's
eyes, in thine own eyes, in the saints' eyes, as sometimes one saint
is little in another saint's eye; yet thou, because thou fearest
God, art put among the blessed. 2. By small, sometimes is meant
those that are but small of stature, or young in years, little
children, that are easily passed by and looked over: as those that
sang Hosanna in the temple were, when the Pharisees deridingly said
of them to Christ, "Hearest thou what these say?" (Matt 21:16).
Well, but Christ would not despise them, of them that feared God,
but preferred them by the Scripture testimony far before those that
did contemn them. Little children, how small soever, and although
of never so small esteem with men, shall also, if they fear the
Lord, be blessed with the greatest saints--"He will bless them
that fear him, small and great." 3. By small may sometimes be meant
those that are small in grace or gifts; these are said to be the
least in the church, that is, under this consideration, and so are
by it least esteemed (Matt 25:45). Thus also is that of Christ to
be understood, "Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of
these, ye did it not to me" (1 Cor 6:4).

Art thou in thine own thoughts, or in the thoughts of others, of
these last small ones, small in grace, small in gifts, small in
esteem upon this account, yet if thou fearest God, if thou fearest
God indeed, thou art certainly blessed with the best of saints. The
least star stands as fixed, as the biggest of them all, in heaven.
"He will bless them that fear him, small and great." He will bless
them, that is, with the same blessing of eternal life. For the
different degrees of grace in saints doth not make the blessing,
as to its nature, differ. It is the same heaven, the same life,
the same glory, and the same eternity of felicity that they are
in the text promised to be blessed with. That is observable which
I mentioned before, where Christ at the day of judgment particularly
mentioneth and owneth the least--"Inasmuch as ye did it not to one
of the least." The least then was there, in his kingdom and in his
glory, as well as the biggest of all. "He will bless them that fear
him, small and great." The small are named first in the text, and
are so the first in rank; it may be to show that though they may
be slighted and little set by in the world, yet they are much set
by in the eyes of the Lord.

Are great saints only to have the kingdom, and the glory everlasting?
Are great works only to be rewarded? works that are done by virtue
of great grace, and the abundance of the gifts of the Holy Ghost?
No: "Whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones
a cup of cold water only, in the name of a disciple, verily I say
unto you, he shall in no wise lose his (a disciple's) reward." Mark,
here is but a little gift, a cup of cold water, and that given to
a little saint, but both taken special notice of by our Lord Jesus
Christ (Matt 10:42). "He will give reward to his servants the
prophets, and to his saints, and to them that fear his name, small
and great" (Rev 11:18). The small, therefore, among them that
fear God, are blessed with the great, as the great, with the same
salvation, the same glory, and the same eternal life; and they
shall have, even as the great ones also shall, as much as they can
carry; as much as their hearts, souls, bodies, and capacities can
hold.

Thirteenth Privilege. Dost thou fear God? why, the Holy Ghost
hath on purpose indited for thee a whole psalm to sing concerning
thyself. So that thou mayest even as thou art in thy calling, bed,
journey, or whenever, sing out thine own blessed and happy condition
to thine own comfort and the comfort of thy fellows. The psalm is
called the 128th Psalm; I will set it before thee, both as it is
in the reading[23] and in the singing Psalms--

" Blessed is every one that feareth the Lord, that walketh in his
ways. For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt
thou be, and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall be as a
fruitful vine by the sides of thine house; thy children, like olive
plants round about thy table. Behold, that thus shall the man be
blessed that feareth the Lord. The Lord shall bless thee out of
Zion; and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy
life. Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon
Israel."

AS IT IS SUNG.

Blessed art thou that fearest God, And walkest in his way: For of
thy labour thou shalt eat; Happy art thou, I say! Like fruitful
vines on thy house side, So doth thy wife spring out; Thy children
stand like olive plants Thy table round about.

Thus art thou blest that fearest God, And he shall let thee see
The promised Jerusalem, And her felicity. Thou shalt thy children's
children see, To thy great joy's increase; And likewise grace on
Israel, Prosperity and peace.[24]

And now I have done with the privileges when I have removed one
objection.

Object. But the Scripture says, "perfect love casteth our fear";
and therefore it seems that saints, after that a spirit of adoption
is come, should not fear, but do their duty, as another Scripture
saith, without it (1 John 4:18; Luke 1:74,75).

Answ. Fear, as I have showed you, may be taken several ways. 1.
It may be taken for the fear of devils. 2. It may be taken for the
fear of reprobates. 3. It may be taken for the fear that is wrought
in the godly by the Spirit as a spirit of bondage; or, 4. It may
be taken for the fear that I have been but now discoursing of.

Now the fear that perfect love casts out cannot be that son-like,
gracious fear of God, that I have in this last place been treating
of; because that fear that love casts out hath torment, but so has
not the son-like fear. Therefore the fear that love casts out is
either that fear that is like the fear of devils and reprobates,
or that fear that is begot in the heart by the Spirit of God as a
spirit of bondage, or both; for, indeed, all these kinds of fear
have torment, and therefore may be cast out; and are so by the
spirit of adoption, which is called the spirit of faith and love,
when he comes with power into the soul; so that without this fear
we should serve him. But to argue from these texts that we ought
not to fear God, or to mix fear with our worship of him, is as much
as to say that by the spirit of adoption we are made very rogues;
for not to fear God is by the Scripture applied to such (Luke
23:40). But for what I have affirmed the Scripture doth plentifully
confirm, saying, "Happy is the man that feareth alway." And again,
"It shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him."
Fear, therefore; the spirit of the fear of the Lord is a grace
that greatly beautifies a Christian, his words, and all his ways:
"Wherefore now let the fear of the Lord be upon you; take heed, and
do it, for there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, nor respect
of persons, nor taking of gifts" (2 Chron 19:7).

I come now to make some use and application of this doctrine.

THE USE OF THIS DOCTRINE.

Having proceeded thus far about this doctrine of the fear of God,
I now come to make some use and application of the whole; and my

[USE FIRST, of Examination.]

FIRST USE shall be a USE OF EXAMINATION. Is this fear of God such
an excellent thing? Is it attended with so many blessed privileges?
Then this should put us, every soul of us, upon a diligent examination
of ourselves, to wit, whether this grace be in us or not, for if
it be, then thou art one of these blessed ones to whom belong these
glorious privileges, for thou hast an interest in every of them;
but if it shall appear that this grace is not in thee, then thy
state is fearfully miserable, as hath partly been manifest already,
and will further be seen in what comes after. Now, the better to
help thee to consider, and not to miss in finding out what thou art
in thy self-examination, I will speak to this--First. In general.
Second. In particular.

First. In general. No man brings this grace into the world with
him. Every one by nature is destitute of it; for naturally none
fear God, there is no fear of God, none of this grace of fear before
their eyes, they do not so much as know what it is; for this fear
flows, as was showed before, from a new heart, faith, repentance
and the like; of which new heart, faith, and repentance, if thou be
void, thou art also void of this godly fear. Men must have a mighty
change of heart and life, or else they are strangers to this fear
of God. Alas, how ignorant are the most of this! Yea, and some
are not afraid to say they are not changed, nor desire so to be.
Can these fear God? can these be possessed with this grace of fear?
No: "Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God"
(Psa 55:19; Psa 36:1; Rom 3:18).

Wherefore, sinner, consider whoever thou art that art destitute
of this fear of God, thou art void of all other graces; for this
fear, as also I have showed, floweth from the whole stock of grace
where it is. There is not one of the graces of the Spirit, but
this fear is in the bowels of it; yea, as I may say, this fear is
the flower and beauty of every grace; neither is there anything,
let it look as much like grace as it will, that will be counted so
indeed, if the fruit thereof be not this fear of God; wherefore,
I say again, consider well of this matter, for as thou shalt be
found with reference to this grace, so shall thy judgment be. I
have but briefly treated of this grace, yet have endeavoured, with
words as fit as I could, to display it in its colours before thy
face, first by showing you what this fear of God is, then what it
flows from, as also what doth flow from it; to which, as was said
before, I have added several privileges that are annexed to this
fear, that by all, if it may be, thou mayest see it if thou hast
it, and thyself without it if thou hast it not. Wherefore I refer
thee thither again for information in this thing; or if thou art
loath to give the book a second reading, but wilt go on to the end
now thou art gotten hither; then

Second and particularly, I conclude with these several propositions
concerning those that fear not God.

1. That man that is proud, and of a high and lofty mind, fears not
God. This is plain from the exhortation, "Be not high-minded, but
fear" (Rom 11:20). Here you see that a high mind and the fear of
God are set in direct opposition the one to the other; and there
is in them, closely concluded by the apostle, that where indeed
the one is, there cannot be the other; where there is a high mind,
there is not the fear of God; and where there is the fear of God,
the mind is not high but lowly. Can a man at the same time be a
proud man, and fear God too? Why, then, is it said God beholdeth
every one that is proud, and abases him? and again, He beholds the
proud afar off? He therefore that is proud of his person, of his
riches, of his office, of his parts, and the like, feareth not God.
It is also manifest further, for God resisteth the proud, which he
would not do, if he feared him, but in that he sets him at such a
distance from him, in that he testifies that he will abase him and
resist him, it is evident that he is not the man that hath this
grace of fear; for that man, as I have showed you, is the man of
God's delight, the object of his pleasure (Psa 138:6; James 4:6;
1 Peter 5:5; Mal 4:1).

2. The covetous man feareth not God. This also is plain from
the Word, because it setteth covetousness and the fear of God in
direct opposition. Men that fear God are said to hate covetousness
(Exo 18:21). Besides, the covetous man is called an idolater, and
is said to have no part in the kingdom of Christ and of God. And
again, "The wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the
covetous, whom the Lord abhorreth" (Eze 33:31; Eph 5:5; Psa 10:3).
Hearken to this, you that hunt the world to take it, you that care
not how you get, so you get the world. Also you that make even
religion your stalking-horse to get the world, you fear not God.
And what will you do whose hearts go after your covetousness? you
who are led by covetousness up and down, as it were by the nose;
sometimes to swear, to lie, to cozen, and cheat and defraud, when
you can get the advantage to do it. You are far, very far, from the
fear of God. "Ye adulterers and adulteresses," for so the covetous
are called, "know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity
with God? whosoever, therefore, will be a friend of the world, is
the enemy of God" (James 4:4).

3. The riotous eaters of flesh have not the fear of God. For this
is done "without fear" (Jude 12). Gluttony is a sin little taken
notice of, and as little repented of by those that use it, but
yet it is odious in the sight of God, and the practice of it a
demonstration of the want of his fear in the heart: yea, so odious
is it, that God forbids that his people should so much as company
with such. "Be not," saith he, "among wine-bibbers, among riotous
eaters of flesh" (Prov 23:20). And he further tells us, that they
that are such, are spots and blemishes to those that keep them
company, for indeed they fear not God (2 Peter 2:13; Rom 13:13;
1 Peter 4:4). Alas! some men are as if they were for nought else
born but to eat and to drink, and pamper their carcasses with the
dainties of this world, quite forgetting why God sent them hither;
but such, as is said, fear not God, and so consequently are of the
number of them upon whom the day of judgment will come at unawares
(Luke 21:34).

4. The liar is one that fears not God. This also is evident from
the plain text, "Thou hast lied," saith the Lord, "and hast not
remembered me, nor laid it to thy heart: have not I held my peace
even of old," saith the Lord, "and thou fearest me not?" (Isa
57:11). What lie this was is not material; it was a lie, or a course
of lying that is here rebuked, and the person or persons in this
practice, as is said, were such as feared not God; a course of lying
and the fear of God cannot stand together. This sin of lying is a
common sin, and it walketh in the world in several guises. There
is the profane scoffing liar, there is the cunning artificial liar,
there is the hypocritical religious liar, with liars of other ranks
and degrees. But none of them all have the fear of God, nor shall
any of them, they not repenting, escape the damnation of hell--"All
liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire
and brimstone" (Rev 21:8). Heaven and the New Jerusalem are not a
place for such--"And there shall in no wise enter into it anything
that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh
a lie" (v 27). Therefore another scripture says that all liars are
without--"For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers,
and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a
lie" (Rev 22:15). But this should not be their sentence, judgment,
and condemnation, if they that are liars were such as had in them
this blessed fear of God.

5. They fear not God who cry unto him for help in the time of their
calamity, and when they are delivered, they return to their former
rebellion. This, Moses, in a spirit of prophecy, asserteth at the
time of the mighty judgment of the hail. Pharaoh then desired him
to pray to God that he would take away that judgment from him. Well,
so I will, said Moses, "But as for thee and thy servants, I know
that ye will not yet fear the Lord God" (Exo 9:30). As who should
say, I know that so soon as this judgment is removed, you will to
your old rebellion again. And what greater demonstration can be
given that such a man feareth not God, than to cry to God to be
delivered from affliction to prosperity, and to spend that prosperity
in rebellion against him? This is crying for mercies that they may
be spent, or that we may have something to spend upon our lusts,
and in the service of Satan (John 4:1-3). Of these God complains in
the sixteenth of Ezekiel, and in the second of Hosea--"Thou hast,"
saith God, "taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my silver, which
I had given thee, and madest to thyself images" &c. (Eze 16:17).
This was for want of the fear of God. Many of this kind there be
now in the world, both of men, and women, and children; art not
thou that readest this book of this number? Hast thou not cried
for health when sick, for wealth when poor, when lame for strength,
when in prison for liberty, and then spent all that thou gottest
by thy prayer in the service of Satan, and to gratify thy lusts?
Look to it, sinner, these things are signs that with thy heart thou
fearest not God.

6. They fear not God that way-lay his people and seek to overthrow
them, or to turn them besides the right path, as they are journeying
from hence to their eternal rest. This is evident from the plain
text, "Remember," saith God, "what Amalek did unto thee by the way
when ye were come forth out of Egypt; how he met thee by the way,
and smote the hindmost of thee, even all that were feeble behind
thee, when thou wast faint and weary, and he feared not God" (Deut
25:17,18). Many such Amalekites there be now in the world that set
themselves against the feeble of the flock, against the feeble of
the flock especially, still smiting them, some by power, some with
the tongue, some in their lives and estates, some in their names and
reputations, by scandals, slanders, and reproach, but the reason
of this their ungodly practice is this, they fear not God. For did
they fear him, they would be afraid to so much as think, much more
of attempting to afflict and destroy, and calumniate the children
of God; but such there have been, such there are, and such there
will be in the world, for all men fear not God.

7. They fear not God who see his hand upon backsliders for their
sins, and yet themselves will be backsliders also. "I saw," saith
God, "when for all the causes whereby backsliding Israel committed
adultery, I had put her away, and given her a bill of divorce,
yet her treacherous sister Judah feared not, but went and played
the harlot also" (Jer 3:8, 2:19). Judah saw that her sister was
put away, and delivered by God into the hands of Shalmaneser, who
carried her away beyond Babylon, and yet, though she saw it, she
went and played the harlot also--a sign of great hardness of heart,
and of the want of the fear of God indeed. For this fear, had it
been in her heart, it would have taught her to have trembled at
the judgment that was executed upon her sister, and not to have
gone and played the harlot also: and not to have done it while
her sister's judgment was in sight and memory. But what is it that
a heart that is destitute of the fear of God will not do? No sin
comes amiss to such: yea, they will sin, they will do that themselves,
for the doing of which they believe some are in hell-fire, and all
because they fear not God.

But pray observe, if those that take not warning when they see the
hand of God upon backsliders, are said to have none of the fear
of God, have they it, think you, that lay stumbling-blocks in the
way of God's people, and use devices to cause them to backslide,
yea, rejoice when they can do this mischief to any? and yet many
of this sort there are in the world, that even rejoice when they
see a professor fall into sin, and go back from his profession, as
if they had found some excellent thing.

8. They fear not God who can look upon a land as wallowing in
sin, and yet are not humbled at the sight thereof. "Have ye," said
God by the prophet to the Jews, "forgotten the wickedness of your
fathers, and the wickedness of the kings of Judah, and the wickedness
of their wives, which they have committed in the land of Judah
and in the streets of Jerusalem? They are not humbled to this day,
neither have they feared, nor walked in my law" (Jer 44:9,10).
Here is a land full of wickedness, and none to bewail it, for they
wanted the fear of God, and love to walk in his law. But how say
you, if they that are not humbled at their own and others' wickedness
are said not to fear, or have the fear of God, what shall we think
or say of such that receive, that nourish and rejoice in such
wickedness? Do they fear God? Yea, what shall we say of such that
are the inventors and promoters of wickedness, as of oaths, beastly
talk, or the like? Do they, do you think, fear God? Once again,
what shall we say of such that cannot be content to be wicked
themselves, and to invent and rejoice in other men's wickedness,
but must hate, reproach, vilify and abuse those that they cannot
persuade to be wicked? Do they fear God?

9. They that take more heed to their own dreams than to the Word
of God, fear not God. This also is plain from the Word--"For in
the multitude of dreams, there are also divers vanities, but fear
thou God"; that is, take heed unto his Word (Eccl 5:7; Isa 8:20).
Here the fearing of God is opposed to our overmuch heeding dreams:
and there is implied, that it is for want of the fear of God that
men so much heed those things. What will they say to this that give
more heed to a suggestion that ariseth from their foolish hearts,
or that is cast in thither by the devil, than they do to the holy
Word of God? These are "filthy dreamers." Also, what shall we
say to those that are more confident of the mercy of God to their
soul, because he hath blessed them with outward things, than they
are afraid of his wrath and condemnation, though the whole of the
Word of God doth fully verify the same? These are "filthy dreamers"
indeed.

A dream is either real, or so by way of semblance, and so some
men dream sleeping, and some waking (Isa 29:7). And as those that
a man dreams sleeping are caused either by God, Satan, business,
flesh, or the like; so are they that a man dreams waking, to pass
by those that we have in our sleep. Men, when bodily awake, may
have dreams, that is, visions from heaven; such are all they that
have a tendency to discover to the sinner his state, or the state
of the church according to the Word. But those that are from Satan,
business, and the flesh, are such--especially the first and last,
to wit, from Satan and the flesh--as tend to embolden men to hope
for good in a way disagreeing with the Word of God.[25]

These Jude calls "filthy dreamers," such whose principles were
their dreams, and they led them "to defile the flesh," that is, by
fornication and uncleanness; "to despise dominion," that the reins
might be laid upon the neck of their lusts; "to speak evil of
dignities," of those that God had set over them, for their governing
in all the law and testament of Christ, these dreamt that to live
like brutes, to be greedy of gain, and to take away for it, as Cain
and Balaam did by their wiles, the lives of the owners thereof,
would go for good coin in the best of trials. These also Peter
speaks of (2 Peter 2). And he makes their dreams, that Jude calls
so, their principle and errors in life and doctrine; you may read
of them in that whole chapter, where they are called cursed children,
and so by consequence such as fear not God.

10. They fear not God, who are sorcerers, adulterers, false swearers,
and that oppress the hireling of his wages. It is a custom with some
men to keep back by fraud from the hireling that which by covenant
they agreed to pay for their labour; pinching, I say, and paring
from them their due that of right belongs to them, to the making of
them cry in "the ears of the Lord of sabaoth" (James 5:4). These
fear not God; they are reckoned among the worst of men, and in
their day of account God himself will bear witness against them.
"And I," saith God, "will come near to you to judgment; and I will
be a swift witness against the adulterers, and against the false
swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages,
the widow and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger from
his right, and fear not me, saith the Lord" (Mal 3:5).

11. They fear not God, who instead of pitying of, rail at God's
people in their affliction, temptations, and persecutions, and
rather rejoice and skip for joy, than sympathize with them in their
sorrow. Thus did David's enemies, thus did Israel's enemies, and
thus did the thief, he railed at Christ when he hanged upon the
cross, and was for that, even by his fellow, accounted for one
that feared not God (Luke 23:40; Psa 35:1,22-26. Read Oba 10-15;
Jer 48:2-6). This is a common thing among the children of men, even
to rejoice at the hurt of them that fear God, and it ariseth even
of an inward hatred to godliness. They hate you, saith Christ,
because they hated me. Therefore Christ takes what is done to his,
in this, as done unto himself, and so to holiness of life. But
this falls hard upon such as despise at, and rejoice to see, God's
people in their griefs, and that take the advantage, as dogged
Shimei did, to augment the griefs and afflictions of God's people
(2 Sam 16:5-8). These fear not God, they do this of enmity, and
their sin is such as will hardly be blotted out (1 Kings 2:8,9).

12. They fear not God, who are strangers to the effects of fear.
"If I be a master, where is my fear?" That is, show that I am so
by your fear of me in the effects of your fear of me. "You offer
polluted bread upon mine altar." This is not a sign that you fear
me, ye offer the blind for sacrifices, where is my fear? ye offer
the lame and the sick, these are not the effects of the fear of
God (Mal 1:6-8). Sinner, it is one thing to say, I fear God, and
another to fear him indeed. Therefore, as James says, show me thy
faith by thy works, so here God calls for a testimony of thy fear
by the effects of fear. I have already showed you several effects
of fear; if thou art a stranger to them, thou art a stranger to this
grace of fear. Therefore, to conclude this, it is not a feigned
profession that will do; nothing is good here, but what is salted
with this fear of God, and they that fear him are men of truth,
men of singleness of heart, perfect, upright, humble, holy men;
wherefore, reader, examine, and again, I say examine, and lay the
Word and thy heart together, before that thou concludest that thou
fearest God.

What! fear God, and in a state of nature? fear God without a change
of heart and life? What! fear God and be proud, and covetous,
a wine-bibber, and a riotous eater of flesh? How! fear God and a
liar, and one that cries for mercies to spend them upon thy lusts?
This would be strange. True, thou mayest fear as devils do, but
what will that profit? Thou mayest by thy fear be driven away from
God, from his worship, people, and ways, but what will that avail?
It may be thou mayest so fear at present, as to be a little stopped
in thy sinful course; perhaps thou hast got a knock from the Word
of God, and are at present a little dazzled and hindered from being
in thy former and full career after sin; but what of that? if by
the fear that thou hast, thy heart is not united to God, and to the
love of his Son, Word, and people, thy fear is nothing worth.[26]
Many men also are forced to fear God, as underlings are forced to
fear those that are by force above them. If thou only thus fearest
God, it is but a false fear; it flows not from love to God: this
fear brings not willing subjection, which indeed brings the effect
of right fear; but being over-mastered like an hypocrite, thou
subjected thyself by feigned obedience, being forced, I say, by
mere dread to do it (Psa 66:3).

It is said of David, "that the fame of him went out into all lands,
and the Lord brought the fear of him upon all nations" (1 Chron
14:17). But what, did they now love David? did they now choose him
to be their king? no verily; they, many of them, rather hated him,
and, when they could, made resistance against him. They did even
as thou dost--feared, but did not love; feared, but did not choose
his government that ruled over them. It is also said of Jehoshaphat,
when God had subdued before him Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, that
"the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of these countries, when
they had heard that the Lord fought against the enemies of Israel"
(2 Chron 20:29). But, I say, was this fear, that is called now the
fear of God, anything else, but a dread of the greatness of power
of the king? No verily, nor did that dread bring them into a willing
subjection to, and liking of his laws and government; it only made
them like slaves and underlings, stand in fear of his executing
the vengeance of God upon them.

Therefore still, notwithstanding this fear, they were rebels to him
in their hearts, and when occasion and advantage offered themselves,
they showed it by rising in rebellion against Israel. This fear
therefore provoked but feigned and forced obedience, a right emblem
of the obedience of such, who being still enemies in their minds to
God, are forced by virtue of present conviction to yield a little,
even of fear to God, to his Word, and to his ordinances. Reader,
whoever thou art, think of this, it is thy concern, therefore
do it, and examine, and examine again, and look diligently to thy
heart in thine examination, that it beguile thee not about this
thy so great concern, as indeed the fear of God is.

One thing more, before I leave thee, let me warn thee of. Take
heed of deferring to fear the Lord. Some men, when they have had
conviction upon their heart that the fear of God is not in them,
have through the overpowering of their corruptions yet deferred
and put off the fear of God from them, as it is said of them in
Jeremiah: "This people hath a revolting and a rebellious heart;
they are revolted and gone. Neither say they in their heart, Let
us now fear the Lord" (Jer 5:23,24). They saw that the judgments
of God attended them because they did not yet fear God, but that
conviction would not prevail with them to say, "Let us now fear
the Lord." They were for deferring to fear him still; they were for
putting off his fear from them longer. Sinner, hast thou deferred
to fear the Lord? is thy heart still so stubborn as not to say
yet, "Let us fear the Lord?" O! the Lord hath taken notice of this
thy rebellion, and is preparing some dreadful judgment for thee.
"Shall I not visit for these things? saith the Lord; shall not
my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?" (v 29). Sinner, why
shouldest thou pull vengeance down upon thee? why shouldest thou
pull vengeance down from heaven upon thee? Look up, perhaps thou
hast already been pulling this great while, to pull it down upon
thee. O! pull no longer; why shouldest thou be thine own executioner?
Fall down upon thy knees, man, and up with thy heart and thy hands
to the God that dwells in the heavens; cry, yea cry aloud, Lord,
unite mine heart to fear thy name, and do not harden mine heart
from thy fear. Thus holy men have cried before thee, and by crying
have prevented judgment.

[A few things that may provoke thee to fear the Lord.]

Before I leave this use, let me give thee a few things, that, if
God will, may provoke thee to fear the Lord.

1. The man that feareth not God, carrieth it worse towards him than
the beast, the brute beast, doth carry it towards that man. "The
fear of you, and the dread of you, shall be upon every beast of the
earth," yea, "and upon every fowl of the air," and "upon all that
moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea" (Gen
9:2).

Mark, all my creatures shall fear you, and dread you, says God.
None of them shall be so hardy as to cast of all reverence of you.
But what a shame is this to man, that God should subject all his
creatures to him, and he should refuse to stoop his heart to God?
The beast, the bird, the fish, and all, have a fear and dread of
man, yea, God has put it in their hearts to fear man, and yet man
is void of fear and dread, I mean of godly fear of him, that thus
lovingly hath put all things under him. Sinner, art thou not ashamed,
that a silly cow, a sheep, yea, a swine, should better observe the
law of his creation, than thou dost the law of thy God?

2. Consider, he that will not fear God, God will make him fear him
whether he will or no. That is, he that doth not, will not now so
fear him, as willingly to bow before him, and put his neck into his
yoke. God will make him fear him when he comes to take vengeance
on him. Then he will surround him with terror, and with fear on
every side, fear within, and fear without; fear shall be in the
way, even in the way that thou goest when thou art going out of
this world; and that will be dreadful fear (Eccl 12:5). "I will
bring their fears upon them," saith the Lord (Isa 66:4).

3. He that fears not God now, the Lord shall laugh at his fears
then. Sinner, God will be even with all them that choose not to
have his fear in their hearts: for as he calls and they hear not
now, so they shall cry, yea, howl then, and he will laugh at their
fears. "I will laugh," saith he, "at their destruction; I will mock
when their fear cometh, when your fear cometh as desolation and
your destruction cometh as a whirlwind, when distress and anguish
cometh upon you; then shall they call upon me, but I will not
answer: they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me, for
that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the Lord"
(Prov 1:27-29).

Sinner! thou thinkest to escape the fear; but what wilt thou do
with the pit? Thou thinkest to escape the pit; but what wilt thou
do with the snare? The snare, say you, what is that? I answer, it
is even the work of thine own hands. "The wicked is snared in the
work of his own hands," he is "snared by the transgression of his
lips" (Psa 9:16; Prov 12:13).

Sinner! what wilt thou do when thou comest into this snare; that
is, into the guilt and terror that thy sins will snaffle[27] thee
with, when they, like a cord, are fastened about thy soul? This
snare will bring thee back again to the pit, which is hell, and
then how wilt thou do to be rid of thy fear? The fear, pit, and
the snare shall come upon thee, because thou fearest not God.

Sinner! art thou one of them that hast cast off fear? poor man,
what wilt thou do when these three things beset thee? whither wilt
thou fly for help? And where wilt thou leave thy glory? If thou
fliest from the fear, there is the pit; if thou fliest from the
pit, there is the snare.

[USE SECOND, an exhortation to fear God.]

SECOND USE. My next word shall be AN EXHORTATION TO FEAR GOD.
I mean an exhortation to saints--"O fear the Lord, ye his saints,
for there is no want to them that fear him." Not but that every
saint doth fear God, but as the apostle saith in another case, "I
beseech you, do it more and more." The fear of the Lord, as I have
showed you, is a grace of the new covenant, as other saving graces
are, and so is capable of being stronger or weaker, as other graces
are. Wherefore I beseech you, fear him more and more.

It is said of Obadiah, that he feared the Lord greatly: every saint
fears the Lord, but every saint does not greatly fear him. O there
are but few Obadiahs in the world, I mean among the saints on
earth: see the whole relation of him (1 Kings 18). As Paul said
of Timothy, "I have none like-minded," so it may be said of some
concerning the fear of the Lord; they have scarce a fellow. So it
was with Job, "There is none like him in the earth, one that feareth
God," &c. (Job 1:8). There was even none in Job's day that feared
God like him, no, there was not one like him in all the earth, but
doubtless there were more in the world that feared God; but this
fearing of him greatly, that is the thing that saints should do,
and that was the thing that Job did do, and in that he did outstrip
his fellows. It is also said of Hananiah, that "he was a faithful
man, and feared God above many" (Neh 7:2). He also had got, as to
the exercise of, and growth in, this grace, the start of many of
his brethren. He "feared God above many." Now then, seeing this
grace admits of degrees, and is in some stronger, and in some weaker,
let us be all awakened as to other graces, so to this grace also.
That like as you abound in everything, in faith, in utterance,
in knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see
that ye abound in this grace also. I will labour to enforce this
exhortation upon you by several motives.

First. Let God's distinguishing love to you be a motive to you to
fear him greatly. He hath put his fear in thy heart, and hath not
given that blessing to thy neighbour; perhaps not to thy husband,
thy wife, thy child, or thy parent. O what an obligation should
this consideration lay upon thy heart greatly to fear the Lord!
Remember also, as I have showed in the first part of this book,
that this fear of the Lord is his treasure, a choice jewel, given
only to favourites, and to those that are greatly beloved. Great
gifts naturally tend to oblige, and will do so, I trust, with thee,
when thou shalt ingeniously consider it. It is a sign of a very
bad nature when the contrary shows itself; could God have done more
for thee than to have put his fear in thy heart? This is better
than to have given thee a place even in heaven without it. Yea,
had he given thee all faith, all knowledge, and the tongue of men
and angels, and a place in heaven to boot, they had all been short
of this gift, of the fear of God in thy heart. Therefore love it,
nourish it, exercise it, use all means to cause it to increase and
grow in thy heart, that it may appear it is set by at thy hand,
poor sinner.

Second. Another motive to stir thee up to grow in this grace of the
fear of God may be the privileges that it lays thee under. What or
where wilt thou find in the Bible, so many privileges so affectionately
entailed to any grace, as to this of the fear of God? God speaks
of this grace, and of the privileges that belong unto it, as if,
to speak with reverence, he knew not how to have done blessing of
the man that hath it. It seems to me as if this grace of fear is
the darling grace, the grace that God sets his heart upon at the
highest rate. As it were, he embraces the hugs, and lays the man
in his bosom, that hath, and grows strong in this grace of the fear
of God. See again the many privileges in which the man is interested
that hath this grace in his heart: and see also that there are
but few of them, wherever mentioned, but have entailed to them the
pronunciation of a blessing, or else that man is spoken of by way
of admiration.

Third. Another motive may be this: The man that groweth in this
grace of the fear of the Lord will escape those evils that others
will fall into. Where this grace is, it keepeth the soul from final
apostasy, "I will put my fear in their hearts, that they shall not
depart from me" (Jer 32:40). But yet, if there be not an increase
in this grace, much evil may attend, and be committed notwithstanding.
There is a child that is healthy, and hath its limbs, and can go,
but it is careless; now the evil of carelessness doth disadvantage
it very much; carelessness is the cause of stumblings, of falls,
of knocks, and that it falls into the dirt, yea, that sometimes
it is burned, or almost drowned. And thus it is, even with God's
people that fear him, because they add not to their fear a care
of growing more in the fear of God, therefore they reap damage;
whereas, were they more in his fear, it would keep them better,
deliver them more, and preserve them from these snares of death.

Fourth. Another motive may be this: To grow in this grace of
the fear of God, is the way to be kept always in a conscientious
performance of Christian duties. An increase in this grace, I say,
keeps every grace in exercise, and the keeping of our graces in
their due exercise, produceth a conscientious performance of duties.
Thou hast a watch perhaps in thy pocket, but the hand will not
as yet be kept in any good order, but does always give the lie as
to the hour of the day; well, but what is the way to remedy this,
but to look well to the spring, and the wheels within? for if they
indeed go right, so will the hand do also. This is thy case in
spiritual things; thou art a gracious man, and the fear of God is
in thee, but yet for all that, one cannot well tell, by thy life,
what time of day it is.[28] Thou givest no true and constant sign
that thou art indeed a Christian; why, the reason is, thou dost
not look well to this grace of the fear of God. Thou dost not grow
and increase in that, but sufferest thy heart to grow careless,
and hard, and so thy life remiss and worldly: Job's growing great
in the fear of God made him eschew evil (Job 1, 2:3).

Fifth. Another motive is: This is the way to be wise indeed. A
wise man feareth and departeth from evil. It doth not say a wise
man hath the grace of fear, but a wise man feareth, that is, putteth
this grace into exercise. There is no greater sign of wisdom than
to grow in this blessed grace. Is it not a sign of wisdom to depart
from sins, which are the snares of death and hell? Is it not a
sign of wisdom for a man yet more and more to endeavour to interest
himself in the love and protection of God? Is it not a high point
of wisdom for a man to be always doing of that which lays him under
the conduct of angels? Surely this is wisdom. And if it be a blessing
to have this fear, is it not wisdom to increase in it? Doubtless it
is the highest point of wisdom, as I have showed before, therefore
grow therein.

Sixth. Another motive may be this: It is seemly for saints to
fear, and increase in this fear of God. He is thy Creator; is it
not seemly for creatures to fear and reverence their Creator? He
is thy King; is it not seemly for subjects to fear and reverence
their King? He is thy Father; is it not seemly for children to
reverence and fear their Father? yea, and to do it more and more?

Seventh. Another motive may be: It is honourable to grow in this
grace of fear; "When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in
Israel" (Hosea 13:1). Truly, to fear, and to about in this fear, is
a sign of a very princely spirit; and the reason is, when I greatly
fear my God, I am above the fear of all others, nor can anything
in this world, be it never so terrible and dreadful, move me at all
to fear them. And hence it is that Christ counsels us to fear--"And
I say unto you, my friends," saith he, "be not afraid of them
that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do."
Aye, but this is a high pitch, how should we come by such princely
spirits? well, I will forewarn you whom you shall fear, and by
fearing of him, arrive to this pitch, "Fear him, which after he
hath killed, hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you,
fear him" (Luke 12:4,5). Indeed this true fear of God sets a man
above all the world. And therefore it saith again, "Neither fear
ye their fear,"--but "sanctify the Lord God" in your hearts, "and
let him be your fear, and let him be your dread" (Isa 8:12,13).

Your great ranting, swaggering, roysters,[29] that are ignorant of
the nature of the fear of God, count it a poor, sneaking, pitiful,
cowardly spirit in men to fear and tremble before the Lord; but
whoso looks back to jails and gibbets, to the sword and burning
stake, shall see, that there, in them, has been the most mighty
and invincible spirit that has been in the world!

Yea, see if God doth not count that the growth of his people in
this grace of fear is that which makes them honourable, when he
positively excludeth those from a dwelling-place in his house, that
do not honour them that fear him (Psa 15:4). And he saith moreover,
"A woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised." If the world
and godless men will not honour these, they shall be honoured some
way else. Such, saith he, "that honour me I will honour," and they
shall be honoured in heaven, in the churches, and among the angels.

Eighth. Another motive to grow in this fear of God may be: This
fear, and the increase of it, qualifies a man to be put in trust
with heavenly and spiritual things, yea, and with earthly things
too.

1. For heavenly and spiritual things. "My covenant," saith God,
"was with [Levi] of life and peace, and I gave them to him, for the
fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my name" (Mal
2:5).

Behold what a gift, what a mercy, what a blessing this Levi is
intrusted with; to wit, with God's everlasting covenant, and with
the life and peace that is wrapped up in this covenant. But why is
it given to him? the answer is, "for the fear wherewith he feared
me, and was afraid before my name." And the reason is good, for
this fear of God teaches a man to put a due estimation upon every
gift of God bestowed upon us; also it teaches us to make use of
the same with reverence of his name, and respect to his glory in
most godly-wise, all which becomes him that is intrusted with any
spiritual gift. The gift here was given to Levi to minister to his
brethren doctrinally thereof, for he, saith God, shall teach Jacob
my statutes and Israel my law. See also Exodus 18:21 and Nehemiah
7:2, with many other places that might be named, and you will find
that men fearing God and hating covetousness; that men that fear
God above others, are intrusted by God, yea, and by his church
too, with the trust and ministration of spiritual things before
any other in the world.

2. For earthly things. This fear of God qualifies a man to be put
in trust with them rather than with another. Therefore God made
Joseph lord of all Egypt; Obadiah, steward of Ahab's house; Daniel,
Mordecai, and the three children, were set over the province of
Babylon; and this by the wonderful working hand of God, because
he had to dispose of earthly things now, not only in a common way,
but for the good of his people in special. True, when there is
no special matter or thing to be done by God in a nation for his
people, then who will (that is, whether they have grace or no)
may have the disposal of those things; but if God has anything in
special to bestow upon his people of this world's goods, then he
will intrust it in the hands of men fearing God. Joseph must now
be made lord of Egypt, because Israel must be kept from starving;
Obadiah must now be made steward of Ahab's house, because the Lord's
prophets must be hid from and fed in despite of the rage and bloody
mind of Jezebel; Daniel, with his companions, and Mordecai also,
they were all exalted to earthly and temporal dignity, that they
might in that state, they being men that abounded in the fear of God,
be serviceable to their brethren in their straits and difficulties
(Gen 42:18, 41:39; 1 Kings 18:3; Esth 6:10; Dan 2:48, 3:30, 5:29,
6:1-3).

Ninth. Another motive to grow in this grace of fear is, Where the
fear of God in the heart of any is not growing, there no grace
thrives, nor duty done as it should.

There no grace thrives, neither faith, hope, love, nor any grace.
This is evident from that general exhortation, "Perfecting holiness
in the fear of God" (2 Cor 7:1). Perfecting holiness, what is that?
but as James says of patience, let every grace have its perfect
work, that ye may be perfect and entire, lacking nothing (James
1:4).

But this cannot be done but in the fear of God, yea, in the exercise
of that grace, and so consequently in the growth of it, for there
is no grace but grows by being exercised. If then you would be
perfect in holiness, if you would have every grace that God has
put into your souls, grow and flourish into perfection; lay them,
as I may say, a-soak in this grace of fear,[30] and do all in the
exercise of it; for a little done in the fear of the Lord is better
than the revenues of the wicked. And again, the Lord will not suffer
the soul of the righteous, the soul that liveth in the fear of the
Lord, to famish, but he casteth away the abundance of the wicked.
Bring abundance to God, and if it be not seasoned with godly fear,
it shall not be acceptable to him, but loathsome and abominable
in his sight; for it doth not flow from the spirit of the fear of
the Lord.

Therefore, where there is not a growth in this fear, there is no
duty done so acceptably. This flows from that which goes before,
for if grace rather decays than grows, where this grace of fear is
not in the growth and increase thereof, then duties in their glory
and acceptableness decay likewise.

Tenth. Another motive to stir thee up to grow in the increase of
this grace of fear is, It is a grace, do but abound therein, that
will give thee great boldness both with God and men. Job was a man
a none-such in his day for one that feared God; and who so bold with
God as Job? who so bold with God, and who so bold with men as he?
How bold was he with God, when he wishes for nothing more than that
he might come even to his seat, and concludes that if he could come
at him, he would approach even as a prince unto him, and as such
would order his cause before him (Job 23:3-7, 31:35-37). Also before
his friends, how bold was he? For ever as they laid to his charge
that he was an hypocrite, he repels them with the testimony of a good
conscience, which good conscience he got, and kept, and maintained
by increasing in the fear of God; yea, his conscience was kept so
good by this grace of fear, for it was by that that he eschewed
evil, that it was common with him to appeal to God when accused,
and also to put himself for his clearing under most bitter curses
and imprecations (Job 13:3-9, 18, 19:23,24, 31).

This fear of God is it that keeps the conscience clean and tender,
and so free from much of that defilement that even a good man may
be afflicted with, for want of his growth in this fear of God.
Yea, let me add, if a man can with a good conscience say that he
desires to fear the name of God, it will add boldness to his soul
in his approaches into the presence of God. "O Lord," said Nehemiah,
"I beseech thee, let now thine ear be attentive to the prayer of
thy servant, and servants, who desire to fear thy name" (Neh 1:11).
He pleaded his desire of fearing the name of God, as an argument
with God to grant him his request; and the reason was, because God
had promised before "to bless them that fear him, both small and
great" (Psa 115:13).

Eleventh. Another motive to stir you up to fear the Lord, and to
grow in this fear is, By it thou mayest have thy labours blessed,
to the saving of the souls of others. It is said of Levi, of whom
mention was made before, that he feared God and was afraid before
his name--that he saved others from their sins. "The law of truth
was in his mouth, and he walked with me in peace and equity, and
did turn away many from iniquity" (Mal 2:6). The fear of God that
dwelt in his heart, showed its growth in the sanctifying of the Lord
by his life and words, and the Lord also blessed this his growth
herein, by blessing his labours to the saving of his neighbours.

Wouldest thou save thy husband, thy wife, thy children, &c., then
be greatly in the fear of God.

This Peter teaches, "Wives," saith he, "be in subjection to your
own husbands, that, if any obey not the word, they also may without
the word be won by the conversation of the wives, while they behold
your chaste conversation, coupled with fear" (1 Peter 3:1,2). So
then, if wives and children, yea, if husbands, wives, children,
servants, &c., did but better observe this general rule of Peter,
to wit, of letting their whole conversation be coupled with fear,
they might be made instruments in God's hand of much more good than
they are. But the misery is, the fear of God is wanting in actions,
and that is the cause that so little good is done by those that profess.
It is not a conversation that is coupled with a profession--for a
great profession may be attended with a life that is not good, but
scandalous; but it is a conversation coupled with fear of God--that
is, with the impressions of the fear of God upon it--that is convincing
and that ministereth the awakenings of God to the conscience, in
order to saving the unbeliever. O they are a sweet couple, to wit,
a Christian conversation coupled with fear.

The want of this fear of God is that that has been a stumbling-block
to the blind oftentimes. Alas, the world will not be convinced by
your talk, by your notions, and by the great profession that you
make, if they see not, therewith mixed, the lively impressions of
the fear of God; but will, as I said, rather stumble and fall, even
at your conversation and at your profession itself. Wherefore, to
prevent this mischief, that is, of stumbling of souls while you
make your profession of God, by a conversation not becoming your
profession, God bids you fear him; implying that a good conversation,
coupled with fear, delivers the blind world from those falls that
otherwise they cannot be delivered from. "Thou shalt not curse the
deaf, nor put a stumbling-block before the blind, but shalt fear
thy God: I am the Lord" (Lev 19:14). But shalt fear thy God, that
is the remedy that will prevent their stumbling at you, at what
else soever they stumble. Wherefore Paul says to Timothy, "Take
heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine; continue in them; for in
doing this thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee"
(1 Tim 4:16).

Twelfth. Another motive to fear, and to grow in this fear of God
is, This is the way to engage God to deliver thee from many outward
dangers, whoever falls therein (Psa 34:7). This is proved from that
of the story of the Hebrew midwives. "The midwives," said Moses,
"feared God," and did not drown the men-children as the king
had commanded, but saved them alive. And what follows? "Therefore
God dealt well with the midwives; and it came to pass because the
midwives feared God, that he made them houses" (Exo 1). That is,
he sheltered them and caused them to be hid from the rage and fury
of the king, and that perhaps in some of the houses of the Egyptians
themselves for why might not the midwives be there hid as well
as was Moses even in the king's court?[31] And how many times are
they that fear God said to be delivered both by God and his holy
angels? as also I have already showed.

Thirteenth. Another motive to fear and to grow in this fear of
God is, This is the way to be delivered from errors and damnable
opinions. There are some that perish in their righteousness, that
is an error; there be some that perish in their wickedness, and
that is an error also. Some again prolong their lives by their
wickedness, and others are righteous over-much, and also some are
over-wise, and all these are snares, and pits, and holes. But then,
sayest thou, how shall I escape? Indeed that is the question, and
the Holy Ghost resolves it thus, "He that feareth God shall come
forth of them all" (Eccl 7:18).

Fourteenth. Another motive to fear, and to grow in this fear of
God, is, Such as have leave, be they never so dark in their souls,
to come boldly to Jesus Christ, and to trust in him for life. I told
you before, that they that fear God have in the general a license
to trust in him; but now I tell you, and that in particular, that
they, and they especially, may do it, and that though in the dark;
you that sit in darkness and have no light, if this grace of fear
be alive in your hearts, you have this boldness--"Who is among you
that feareth the Lord," mark, that feareth the Lord, "that obeyeth
the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness, and hath no
light? let him trust in the name of the Lord, and stay upon his
God" (Isa 50:10). It is no small advantage, you know, when men
have to deal in difficult matters, to have a patent or license to
deal; now to trust in the Lord is a difficult thing, yet the best
and most gainful of all. But then, some will say, since it is
so difficult, how may we do without danger? Why, the text gives a
license, a patent to them to trust in his name, that have his fear
in their hearts--"Let him trust in the name of the Lord, and stay
upon his God." [32]

Fifteenth. Another motive to fear and grow in this grace of fear,
is, God will own and acknowledge such to be his, whoever he rejecteth.
Yea he will distinguish and separate them from all others, in
the day of his terrible judgments. He will do with them as he did
by those that sighed for the abominations that were done in the
land--command the man that hath his ink-horn by his side "to set
a mark upon their foreheads," that they might not fall in that
judgment with others (Eze 9). So God said plainly of them that
feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name, that they should
be writ in his book--"A book of remembrance was written before
him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name;
and they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when
I make up my jewels, and I will spare them as a man spareth his
own son that serveth him" (Mal 3:16,17). Mark, he both acknowledges
them for his, and also promises to spare them, as a man would spare
his own son; yea, and moreover, will wrap them up as his chief
jewels with himself in the bundle of life. Thus much for the motives.

How to grow in this fear of God.

Having given you these motives to the duty of growing in this fear
of God, before I leave this use, I will, in a few words, show you
how you may grow in this fear of God.

First. Then, if thou wouldest grow in this fear of God, learn aright
to distinguish of fear in general. I mean, learn to distinguish
between that fear that is godly, and that which in itself is indeed
ungodly fear of God; and know them well the one from the other,
lest the one, the fear that in itself indeed is ungodly, get the
place, even the upper hand of that which truly is godly fear. And
remember the ungodly fear of God is by God himself counted an enemy
to him, and hurtful to his people, and is therefore most plentifully
forbidden in the Word (Gen 3:15, 26:24, 46:3; Exo 14:13, 20:20;
Num 14:9, 21:34; Isa 41:10,14, 43:1, 44:2,8; 54:4; Jer 30:10; Dan
10:12,19; Joel 2:21; Hagg 2:5; Zech 8:13).

Second. If thou wouldest grow in this godly fear, learn rightly
to distinguish it from that fear, in particular, that is godly but
for a time; even from that fear that is wrought by the Spirit, as
a spirit of bondage. I say, learn to distinguish this from that,
and also perfectly to know the bounds that God hath set to that
fear that is wrought by the Spirit, as a spirit of bondage; lest,
instead of growing in the fear that is to abide with thy soul for
ever, thou be over-run again with that first fear, which is to
abide with thee but till the spirit of adoption come. And that thou
mayest not only distinguish them one from the other, but also keep
each in its due place and bounds, consider in general of what hath
already been said upon this head, and in particular that the first
fear is no more wrought by the Holy Spirit, but by the devil, to
distress thee, and make thee to live, not like a son, but a slave.
And for thy better help in this matter, know that God himself hath
set bounds to this fear, and has concluded that after the spirit
of adoption is come, that other fear is wrought in thy heart by
him no more (Rom 8:15; 2 Tim 1:7).

Again, before I leave this, let me tell thee that if thou dost not
well bestir thee in this matter, this bondage fear, to wit, that
which is like it, though not wrought in thee by the Holy Ghost,
will, by the management and subtlety of the devil, the author
of it, haunt, disturb, and make thee live uncomfortably, and that
while thou art an heir of God and his kingdom. This is that fear
that the apostle speaks of, that makes men "all their lifetime
subject to bondage" (Heb 2:14,15). For though Christ will deliver
thee indeed at last, thou having embraced him by faith, yet thy
life will be full of trouble; and death, though Jesus hath abolished
it, will be always a living bugbear to thee in all thy ways and
thoughts, to break thy peace, and to make thee to draw thy loins
heavily after him.

Third. Wouldest thou grow in this godly fear? then, as thou shouldest
learn to distinguish of fears, so thou shouldest make conscience
of which to entertain and cherish. If God would have his fear--and
it is called HIS fear by way of eminency--"that his fear may be
before you, that ye sin not" (Exo 20:20; Jer 32:40)--I say, if God
would have his fear be with thee, then thou shouldest make conscience
of this, and not so lightly give way to slavish fear, as is common
for Christians to do.

There is utterly a fault among Christians about this thing; that
is, they make not that conscience of resisting of slavish fear as
they ought; they rather cherish and entertain it, and so weaken
themselves, and that fear that they ought to strengthen.

And this is the reason that we so often lie grabbling[33] under
the black and amazing thoughts that are engendered in our hearts
by unbelief; for this fear nourisheth unbelief; that is, now it
doth, to wit, if we give way to it after the spirit of adoption is
come, and readily closeth with all the fiery darts of the wicked.

But Christians are ready to do with this fear as the horse does
when the tines[34] of the fork are set against his side; even lean
to it until it entereth into his belly. We lean naturally to this
fear, I mean, after God has done good to our souls; it is hard
striving against it, because it has even our sense and feeling of
its side. But I say, if thou wouldest be a growing Christian--growing, I
say, in the fear that is godly, in the fear that is always so--then
make conscience of striving against the other, and against all
these things that would bring thee back to it. "Wherefore should
I fear," said David, "in the day of evil, when the iniquity of my
heels shall compass me about?" (Psa 49:5).

What! not fear in the day of evil? What! not when the iniquity of
thy heels compasseth thee about? No, not then, saith he, that is,
not with that fear that would bring him again into bondage to the
law; for he had received the spirit of adoption before. Indeed, if
ever a Christian has ground to give way to slavish fear, it is at
these two times, to wit, in the day of evil, and when the iniquity
of his heels compasseth him about; but you see, David would not
then, no, not then, give way thereto, nor did he see reason why
he should. "Wherefore should I," said he? Aye, wherefore indeed?
since now thou art become a son of God through Christ, and hast
received the Spirit of his Son into thy heart, crying, Father,
Father.

Fourth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of godly fear? then grow
in the knowledge of the new covenant, for that is indeed the girdle
of our reins, and the strength of our souls. Hear what Zacharias
saith: God, says he, "hath raised up an horn of salvation for
us in the house of his servant David, as he spake by the mouth of
his holy prophets which have been since the world began." But what
was it? what was it that he spake? Why, "That he would grant unto
us, that we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, might
serve him without fear," without this slavish bondage fear, "in
holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life."
But upon what is this princely fearless service of God grounded?
Why, upon the holy covenant of God, upon the oath that he swore
unto Abraham (Luke 1:69-74). Now in this covenant is wrapped up all
thy salvation; in it is contained all thy desire, and I am sure,
that then it containeth the complete salvation of thy soul; and I
say, since this covenant is confirmed by promise, by oath, and by
the blood of the Son of God, and that on purpose that thou mightest
serve thy God without slavish fear, then the knowledge and faith
of this covenant is of absolute necessity to bring us into this
liberty, and out of our slavish terrors, and so, consequently, to
cause us to grow in that son-like, godly fear, which became even
the Son of God himself, and becomes all his disciples to live in
the growth and exercise of.

Fifth. Wouldest thou grow in this godly fear? then labour even always
to keep thine evidences for heaven and of thy salvation alive upon
thy heart; for he that loseth his evidences for heaven, will hardly
keep slavish fear out of heart; but he that hath the wisdom and
grace to keep them alive, and apparent to himself, he will grow in
this godly fear. See how David words it, "From the end of the earth,"
saith he, "will I cry unto thee; when my heart is overwhelmed, lead
me to the rock that is higher than I. For thou hast been a shelter
for me, and a strong tower from the enemy: I will abide in thy
tabernacle for ever. For thou, O God, hast heard my vows; thou hast
given me the heritage of those that fear thy name" (Psa 61:2-5).
Mark a little, David doth by these words, in the first place,
suggest that sometimes, to his thinking, he was as far off of his
God as the ends of the earth are asunder, and that at such times he
was subject to be overwhelmed, afraid: [And] second, the way that
he took at such times, to help himself, was to cry to God to lead
him again to Jesus Christ--"lead me to the rock that is higher
than I"; for indeed without faith in him, and the renewing of that
faith, there can be no evidence for heaven made to appear unto the
soul. This therefore he prays for first. Then he puts that faith
into exercise, and that with respect to the time that was past,
and also of the time that was to come. For the time past, says
he, "Thou hast been a shelter to me, and a strong tower from the
enemy"; and for the time to come, he said, "I will abide in thy
tabernacle," that is, in thy Christ by faith, and in thy way of
worship by love, "forever." And observe it, he makes the believing
remembrance of his first evidences for heaven the ground of this
his cry and faith, "For thou," says he, "O God, hast given me the
heritage of those that fear thy name." Thou hast made me meet to
be a partaker of the mercy of thy chosen, and hast put me under
the blessing of goodness wherewith thou hast blessed those that
fear thee. Thus you see how David, in his distresses, musters up
his prayers, faith, and evidences for eternal life, that he might
deliver himself from being overwhelmed, that is, with slavish
fear, and that he might also abound in that son-like fear of
his fellow-brethren, that is not only comely, with respect to our
profession, but profitable to our souls.

Sixth. Wouldest thou grow in this fear of God? then set before
thine eyes the being and majesty of God; for that both begetteth,
maintaineth, and increaseth this fear. And hence it is called the
fear of God, that is, an holy and awful dread and reverence of his
majesty. For the fear of God is to stand in awe of him, but how
can that be done if we do not set him before us? And again, if we
would fear him more, we must abide more in the sense and faith of
his glorious majesty. Hence this fear and God's name is so often
put together: as fear God, fear the Lord, fear thy God, do this in
the fear of the Lord, and thou shalt fear thy God, I am the Lord.
For these words, "I am the Lord thy God," and the like, are on
purpose put in, not only to show us whom we should fear, but also
to beget, maintain, and increase in us that fear that is due from
us to that "glorious and fearful name, the Lord our God" (Deut
28:58).

Seventh. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then keep
always close to thy conscience the authority of the Word; fear the
commandment as the commandment of a God both mighty and glorious,
and as the commandment of a father, both loving and pitiful; let
this commandment, I say, be always with thine eye, with thine ear,
and with thine heart; for then thou wilt be taught, not only to
fear, but to abound in the fear of the Lord. Every grace is nourished
by the Word, and without it there is no thrift in the soul (Prov
13:13, 4:20-22; Deut 6:1,2).

Eighth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then be much in
the faith of the promise, of the promise that maketh over to thy
soul an interest in God by Christ, and of all good things. The
promise naturally tendeth to increase in us the fear of the Lord,
because this fear, it grows by goodness and mercy; they shall fear
the Lord, and his goodness; now this goodness and mercy of God,
it is wrapt up in, and made over to us by promise; for God gave it
to Abraham by promise. Therefore the faith and hope of the promise
causeth this fear to grow in the soul--"Having therefore these
promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness
of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God"
(2 Cor 7:1). "Perfecting holiness in the fear of God"; therefore
that fear by the promise must needs grow mighty, for by, with, and
in it, you see holiness is perfected.

Ninth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then remember
the judgments of God that have, or shall certainly overtake, those
professors, that have either been downright hypocrites, or else
unwatchful Christians. For both these sorts partake of the judgments
of God; the one, to wit, the true Christian, for his unwatchfulness,
for his correction; the other, to wit, the hypocrite, for his
hypocrisy, to his destruction. This is a way to make thee stand in
awe, and to make thee tremble, and grow in the grace of fear before
thy God.

Judgments! you may say, what judgments? Answ. Time will fail me
here to tell thee of the judgments that sometimes overtake God's
people, and that always certainly overtake the hypocrite for his
transgressions. For those that attend God's people, I would have
thee look back to the place in this book where they are particularly
touched upon. And for those that attend the hypocrite, in general
they are these. 1. Blindness of heart in this world. 2. The death
of their hope at the day of their death. 3. And the damnation
of their souls at the day of judgment (Matt 23:15-19; Job 8:13,
11:20, 18:14, 20:4-7, Matt 23:33, 24:51; Luke 20:47). The godly
consideration of these things tend to make men grow in the fear of
God.

Tenth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then study the
excellencies of the grace of fear, and what profit it yieldeth
to them that have it, and labour to get thy heart into the love,
both of the exercise of the grace itself, and also of the fruit
it yieldeth; for a man hardly grows in the increase of any grace,
until his heart is united to it, and until it is made lovely in
his eyes (Psa 119:119,120). Now the excellencies of this grace of
fear have also been discoursed of in this book before, where by
reading thou shalt find the fruit it bears, and the promises that
are annexed to it, which, because they are many, I refer thee also
thither for thy instruction.

Eleventh. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then remember
what a world of privileges do belong to them that fear the Lord,
as also I have hinted; namely, that such shall not be hurt, shall
want no good thing, shall be guarded by angels, and have a special
license, though in never so dreadful a plight, to trust in the name
of the Lord, and stay upon their God.

Twelfth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then be much in
prayer to God for abundance of the increase thereof. To fear God
is that which is according to his will, and if we ask anything
according to his will, he heareth us. Pray therefore that God will
unite thy heart to fear his name; this is the way to grow in the
grace of fear.

Lastly, Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then devote
thyself to it (Psa 119:38). Devote myself to it, you will say, how
is that? I answer, why, give thyself to it, addict thyself to it.
Solace thyself in the contemplation of God, and of a reverence of
his name, and word, and worship. Then wilt thou fear, and grow in
this grace of fear.

What things they are that have a tendency in them to hinder the
growth of the fear of God in our hearts.

And that I may yet be helpful to thee, reader, I shall now give
thee caution of those things that will, if way be given to them,
hinder thy growth in this fear of God, the which, because they are
very hurtful to the people of God, I would have thee be warned by
them. And they are these which follow:

First. If thou wouldest grow in this grace of fear, take heed of
A HARD HEART, for that will hinder thy growth in this grace. "Why
hast thou hardened our heart from thy fear?" was a bitter complaint
of the church heretofore; for it is not only the judgment that in
itself is dreadful and sore to God's people, but that which greatly
hindereth the growth of this grace in the soul (Isa 63:17). A hard
heart is but barren ground for any grace to grow in, especially
for the grace of fear: there is but little of this fear where the
heart is indeed hard; neither will there ever be much therein.

Now if thou wouldest be kept from a hard heart, 1. Take heed of the
beginnings of sin. Take heed, I say, of that, though it should be
never so small; "A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump." There
is more in a little sin to harden, than in a great deal of grace
to soften. David's look upon Bathsheba was, one would think, but
a small matter; yet that beginning of sin contracted such hardness
of heart in him, that it carried him almost beyond all fear of
God. It did carry him to commit lewdness with her, murder upon the
body of Uriah, and to abundance of wicked dissimulation; which are
things, I say, that have direct tendency to quench and destroy all
fear of God in the soul.

2. If thou hast sinned, lie not down without repentance; for the
want of repentance, after one has sinned, makes the heart yet harder
and harder. Indeed a hard heart is impenitent, and impenitence
also makes the heart harder and harder. So that if impenitence be
added to hardness of heart, or to the beginning of sin which makes
it so, it will quickly be with that soul, as is said of the house
of Israel, it will have a whore's forehead, it will hardly be
brought to shame (Jer 3:3).

3. If thou wouldest be rid of a hard heart, that great enemy to the
growth of the grace of fear, be much with Christ upon the cross in
thy meditations; for that is an excellent remedy against hardness
of heart: a right sight of him, as he hanged there for thy sins,
will dissolve thy heart into tears, and make it soft and tender.
"They shall look upon me whom they have pierced,--and mourn" (Zech
12:10). Now a soft, a tender, and a broken heart, is a fit place
for the grace of fear to thrive in. But,

Second. If thou wouldest have the grace of fear to grow in thy soul,
take heed also of A PRAYERLESS HEART, for that is not a place for
this grace of fear to grow in. Hence he that restraineth prayer
is said to cast off fear. "Thou castest off fear," said one of his
friends to Job. But how must he do that? Why the next words show,
"Thou restrainest prayer before God" (Job 15:4). Seest thou a
professor that prayeth not? that man thrusteth the fear of God away
from him. Seest thou a man that prays but little, that man feareth
God but little; for it is the praying soul, the man that is mighty
in praying, that has a heart for the fear of God to grow in. Take
heed, therefore, of a prayerless heart, if you would grow in this
grace of the fear of God. Prayer is as the pitcher that fetcheth
water from the brook, therewith to water the herbs; break the pitcher,
and it will fetch no water, and for want of water the garden withers.

Third. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of
A LIGHT AND WANTON HEART, for neither is such a heart good ground
for the fear of God to grow in. Wherefore it is said of Israel,
"She feared not, but went and played the harlot also." She was
given to wantonness, and to be light and vain, and so her fear of
God decayed (Jer 3:8). Had Joseph been as wanton as his mistress,
he had been as void of the fear of God as she; but he was of a
sober, tender, godly, considerate spirit, therefore he grew in the
fear of God.

Fourth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed
of A COVETOUS HEART, for neither is that which is such an one good
ground for this grace of fear to grow in. Therefore this covetousness
and the fear of God are as enemies, set the one in opposition to the
other: one that feareth God and hateth covetousness (Exo 18:21).
And the reason why covetousness is such an obstruction to the growth
of this grace of fear, is because covetousness casteth those things
out of the heart which alone can nourish this fear. It casteth out
the Word and love of God, without which no grace can grow in the
soul; how then should the fear of God grow in a covetous heart?
(Eze 33:30-32; 1 John 2:15).

Fifth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of
AN UNBELIEVING HEART, for an unbelieving heart is not good ground
for this grace of fear to grow in. An unbelieving heart is called
"an evil heart," because from it flows all the wickedness that is
committed in the world (Heb 3:12). Now it is faith, or a believing
heart, that nourisheth this fear of God, and not the other; and
the reason is, for that faith brings God, heaven, and hell, to the
soul, and maketh it duly consider of them all (Heb 11:7). This is
therefore the means of fear, and that which will make it grow in
the soul; but unbelief is a bane thereto.

Sixth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of
A FORGETFUL HEART. Such a heart is not a heart where the grace of
fear will flourish, "when I remember, I am afraid," &c. Therefore
take heed of forgetfulness; do not forget but remember God, and
his kindness, patience, and mercy, to those that yet neither have
grace, nor special favour from him, and that will beget and nourish
his fear in thy heart, but forgetfulness of this, or of any other
of his judgments, is a great wound and weakening to this fear (Job
21:6). When a man well remembers that God's judgments are so great
a deep and mystery, as indeed they are, that remembrance puts a man
upon such considerations of God and of his judgments as to make him
fear--"Therefore," said Job, "I am afraid of him." See the place,
Job 23:15. "Therefore am I troubled at his presence; when I consider,
I am afraid of him"--when I remember and consider of the wonderful
depths of his judgments towards man.

Seventh. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed
of A MURMURING AND REPINING HEART, for that is not a heart for
this grace of fear to grow in. As for instance, when men murmur and
repine at God's hand, at his dispensations, and at the judgments that
overtake them, in their persons, estates, families, or relations,
that their murmuring tendeth to destroy fear; for a murmuring
spirit is such an one as seems to correct God, and to find fault
with his dispensations, and where there is that, the heart is far
from fear. A murmuring spirit either comes from that wisdom that
pretends to understand that there is a failure in the nature and
execution of things, or from an envy and spite at the execution of
them. Now if murmurings arise from this pretended wisdom of the
flesh, then instead of fearing of God, his actions are judged to be
either rigid or ridiculous, which yet are done in judgment, truth,
and righteousness. So that a murmuring heart cannot be a good one
for the fear of God to grow in. Alas! the heart where that grows
must be a soft one; as you have it in Job 23:15, 16; and a heart
that will stoop and be silent at the most abstruse of all his
judgments--"I was dumb, because THOU didst it." The heart in which
this fear of God doth flourish is such, that it bows and is mute,
if it can but espy the hand, wisdom, justice, or holiness of God in
this or the other of his dispensations, and so stirs up the soul
to fear before him. But if this murmuring ariseth from envy and
spite, that looketh so like to the spirit of the devil, that nothing
need be said to give conviction of the horrible wickedness of it.

Eighth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed
of A HIGH AND CAPTIOUS SPIRIT, for that is not good ground for the
fear of God to grow in. A meek and quiet spirit is the best, and
there the fear of God will flourish most; therefore Peter puts
meekness and fear together, as being most suited in their nature
and natural tendency one to another (1 Peter 3:15). Meekness of
spirit is like that heart that hath depth of earth in it in which
things may take root and grow; but a high and captious spirit is
like to the stony ground, where there is not depth of earth, and
consequently, where this grace of fear cannot grow; therefore take
heed of this kind of spirit, if thou wouldest that the fear of God
should grow in thy soul.

Ninth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed
of AN ENVIOUS HEART, for that is not a good heart for the fear of
God to grow in. "Let not thine heart envy sinners; but be thou in
the fear of the Lord all the day long" (Prov 23:17). To envy any
is a sign of a bad spirit, and that man takes upon him, as I have
already hinted, to be a controller and a judge, yea, and a malicious
executioner too, and that of that fury that ariseth from his own
lusts and revengeful spirit, upon (perhaps) the man that is more
righteous than himself. But suppose he is a sinner that is the object
of thine envy, why, the text sets that envy in direct opposition
to the fear of God; "Envy not sinners, but be thou in the fear of
God." These two, therefore, to wit, envy to sinners and fearing of
God, are opposites. Thou canst not fear God, and envy sinners too.
And the reason is, because he that envieth a sinner, hath forgotten
himself, that he is as bad; and how can he then fear God? He that
envies sinners rejects his duty of blessing of them that curse,
and praying for them that despitefully use us; and how can he that
hath rejected this, fear God? He that envieth sinners, therefore,
cannot be of a good spirit, nor can the fear of God grow in his
heart.

Tenth. Lastly, Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take
heed of HARDENING THY HEART at any time against convictions to
particular duties, as to prayer, alms, self-denial, or the like.
Take heed also of hardening thy heart, when thou art under any
judgment of God, as sickness, losses, crosses, or the like. I bid
you before to beware of a hard heart, but now I bid you beware of
hardening your soft ones. For to harden the heart is to make it
worse than it is; harder, more desperate, and bold against God,
than at the present it is. Now, I say, if thou wouldest grow in this
grace of fear, take heed of hardening thy heart, and especially of
hardening of it against convictions to good; for those convictions
are sent of God like seasonable showers of rain, to keep the tillage of
thy heart in good order, that the grace of fear may grow therein;
but this stifling of convictions makes the heart as hard as a
piece of the nether millstone. Therefore happy is he that receiveth
conviction, for so he doth keep in the fear of God, and that fear
thereby nourished in his soul; but cursed is he that doth
otherwise--"Happy is the man that feareth alway; but he that
hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief" (Prov 28:14).

USE THIRD, of encouragement.

USE THIRD. I come now to A USE OF ENCOURAGEMENT to those that are
blessed with this grace of fear. The last text that was mentioned
saith, "Happy is the man that feareth alway," and so doth many
more. Happy already, because blessed with this grace; and happy
for time to come, because this grace shall abide, and continue till
the soul that hath it is brought unto the mansion-house of glory.
"I will put my fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from
me." Therefore, as here it saith, Happy is he, so it saith also,
It shall go well with him, that is, in time to come. "It shall be
well with them that fear God" (Eccl 8:12).

First. Had God given thee all the world, yet cursed hadst thou been,
if he had not given thee the fear of the Lord; for the fashion of
this world is a fading thing, but he that feareth the Lord shall
abide for ever and ever. This therefore is the first thing that I
would propound for thy encouragement, thou man that fears the Lord.
This grace will dwell in thy heart, for it is a new covenant grace,
and will abide with thee for ever. It is sent to thee from God,
not only to join thy heart unto him, but to keep thee from final
apostasy--"I will put my fear in their hearts, that they shall not
depart from me" (Jer 32:40). That thou mayest never forsake God,
is his design, and therefore, to keep thee from that wicked thing,
he hath put his fear in thy heart. Many are the temptations,
difficulties, snares, traps, trials, and troubles that the people
of God pass through in the world, but how shall they be kept, how
shall they be delivered, and escape? Why, the answer is, The fear
of God will keep them--"He that feareth God shall come forth of
them all."

Is it not therefore a wonderful mercy to be blessed with this
grace of fear, that thou by it mayest be kept from final, which
is damnable apostasy? Bless God, therefore, thou blessed man, that
hast this grace of fear in thy soul. There are five things in this
grace of fear that have a direct tendency in them to keep thee from
final apostasy.

1. It is seated in the heart, and the heart is, as I may call it,
the main fort in the mystical world, man. It is not placed in the
head, as knowledge is; nor in the mouth, as utterance is, but in
the heart, the seat of all, "I will put my fear in their hearts."
If a king will keep a town secure to himself, let him be sure to
man sufficiently the main fort thereof. If he have twenty thousand
men well armed, yet if they lie scattered here and there, the town
may be taken for all that, but if the main fort be well manned, then
the town is more secure. What if a man had all the parts, yea, all
the arts of men and angels? That will not keep the heart to God.
But when the heart, this principal fort, is possessed with the fear
of God, then he is safe, but not else.

2. As the heart in general, so the will in special. That chief and
great faculty of the soul is the principle that is acted by this
fear. The will, which way that goes, all goes; if it be to heaven
or hell. Now the will, I say, is that main faculty that is governed
by this fear that doth possess the soul, therefore all is like
to go well with it. This Samuel insinuateth, where he saith, "If
ye will fear the Lord." Fearing of God is a voluntary act of the
will, and that being so, the soul is kept from rebellion against
the commandment, because by the will where this fear of God is
placed, and which it governeth, is led all the rest of the powers
of the soul (1 Sam 12:14). In this will, then, is this fear of God
placed, that this grace may the better be able to govern the soul,
and so by consequence the whole man; for as I said before, look
what way the will goes, look what the will does, thither goes, and
that does, the whole man (Psa 110:3). Man, when his will is alienate
from God, is reckoned rebellious throughout, and that not without
ground, for the will is the principal faculty of the soul as to
obedience, and therefore things done without the will are as if
they were not done at all. The spirit is willing; if ye be willing;
"she hath done what she could," and the like; by these and such-like
sayings the goodness of the heart and action is judged, as to the
subjective part thereof. Now this fear that we have been speaking
of, is placed in the soul, and so consequently in the will, that the
man may thereby the better be kept from final and damnable apostasy.

3. This fear, as I may say, even above every other grace, is God's
well-wisher; and hence it is called, as I also have showed you, his
fear. As he also says in the text mentioned above, "I will put my
fear in their hearts." These words, his and my, they are intimate
and familiar expressions, bespeaking not only great favour to man,
but a very great trust put in him. As who should say, this fear
is my special friend, it will subject and bow the soul, and the
several faculties thereof, to my pleasure; it is my great favourite,
and subdueth sinners to my pleasure. You shall rarely find faith
or repentance, or parts, go under such familiar characters as this
blessed fear of the Lord doth. Of all the counsellors and mighties
that David had, Hushai only was called the king's friend (2 Sam
15:37, 16:16). So of all the graces of the Spirit this of the fear
of God goes mostly, if not always, by the title of MY fear, God's
fear, HIS fear, &c. I told you before, if the king will keep a town,
the main fort therein must be sufficiently manned: and now I will
add, that if he have not to govern those men some trusty and special
friend, such as Hushai was to David, he may find it lost when it
should stand him in greatest stead. If a soul should be possessed
with all things possible, yet if this fear of God be wanting, all
other things will give place in time of rebellion, and the soul
shall be found in, and under the conduct of hell, when it should
stand up for God and his truth in the world. This fear of God, it
is God's special friend, and therefore it has given unto it the
chief seat of the heart, the will, that the whole man may now be,
and also be kept hereafter, in the subjection and obedience of the
gospel. For,

4. This grace of fear is the softest and most tender of God's honour
of any other grace. It is that tender, sensible, and trembling
grace, that keepeth the soul upon its continual watch. To keep a
good watch is, you know, a wonderful safety to a place that is in
continual danger because of the enemy. Why, this is the grace that
setteth the watch, and that keepeth the watchmen awake (Can 3:7,8).
A man cannot watch as he should, if he be destitute of fear: let him
be confident, and he sleeps; he unadvisedly lets into the garrison
those that should not come there. Israel's fault when they came to
Canaan was, that they made a covenant with the inhabitants of the
land, to wit, the Gibeonites, without asking counsel of God. But
would they have done so, think you, if at the same time the fear
of God had had its full play in the soul, in the army? no, they at
that time forgot to fear. The grace of fear had not at that time
its full stroke and sway among them.

5. This grace of fear is that which, as I may so say, first affects
the hearts of saints with judgments, after we have sinned, and so
is as a beginning grace to bring again that to rights that by sin
is put out of frame. O it is a precious grace of God! I know what
I say in this matter, and also where I had been long ago, through
the power of my lusts, and the wiles of the devil, had it not been
for the fear of God.

Second. But secondly, another encouragement for those that are
blessed with this blessed grace of fear is this,--this fear fails
not to do this work for the soul, if there in truth, be it never
so small in measure. A little of this leaven "leaveneth the whole
lump." True, a little will not do, or help the soul to do those
worthy exploits in the heart or life as well as a bigger measure
thereof; nor, indeed, can a little of any grace do that which
a bigger measure will; but a little will preserve the soul from
final apostasy, and deliver it into the arms of the Son of God at
the final judgment. Wherefore, when he saith, "I will put my fear
in their hearts," he says not, I will put so much of it there, such
a quantity, or such a degree; but, "I will put my fear there." I
speak not this in the least to tempt the godly man to be content
with the least degree of the fear of God in his heart. True, men
should be glad that God hath put even the least degree of this
grace into their souls, but they should not be content therewith;
they should earnestly covet more, pray for more, and use all lawful,
that is, all the means of God's appointing, that they may get more.

There are, as I have said already, several degrees of this grace of
fear, and our wisdom is to grow in it, as in all the other graces
of the Spirit. The reasons why, I have showed you, and also the way
to grow therein; but the least measure thereof will do as I said,
that is, keep the soul from final apostasy. There are, as I have
showed you, those that greatly fear the Lord, that fear exceedingly,
and that fear him above many of their brethren; but the small in
this grace are saved as well as those that are great therein: "He
will bless" or save "them that fear him, both small and great."
This fear of the Lord is the pulse of the soul; and as some pulses
beat stronger, some weaker, so is this grace of fear in the soul.
They that beat best are a sign of best life, but they that beat
worst show that life is [barely] present. As long as the pulse
beats, we count not that the man is dead, though weak; and this
fear, where it is, preserves to everlasting life. Pulses there are
also that are intermitting; to wit, such as have their times for
a little, a little time to stop, and beat again; true, these are
dangerous pulses, but yet too a sign of life. This fear of God also
is sometimes like this intermitting pulse; there are times when it
forbears to work, and then it works again. David had an intermitting
pulse, Peter had an intermitting pulse, as also many other of the
saints of God. I call that an intermitting pulse, with reference
to the fear we speak of, when there is some obstruction by the
workings of corruptions in the soul; I say, some obstruction from,
and hindrance of, the continual motion of this fear of God; yet
none of these, though they are various, and some of them signs
of weakness, are signs of death, but life. "I will put my fear in
their hearts, that they shall not depart from me."

Quest. But you may say, How shall I know that I fear God?

Answ. If I should say that desires, true sincere desires to fear
him, is fear itself. I should not say amiss (Neh 1:11). For although
a desire to be, or do so and so, makes not a man to be in temporal
or natural things what he desires to be--for a sick, or poor,
or imprisoned man may desire to be well, to be rich, or to be
at liberty, and yet be as they are, sick, poor, or in prison--yet
in spirituals, a man's desire to be good, to believe, to love, to
hope, and fear God, doth flow from the nature of grace itself.

I said before, that in temporals a man could not properly be said
to be what he was not; yet a man, even in naturals or temporals,
shows his love to that thing that he desires, whether it be health,
riches, or liberty; and in spirituals, desires of, from love to
this or that grace of God, sincere desires of it flow from the root
of the grace itself--"Thy servants who desire to fear thy name."
Nehemiah bore himself before God upon this, "that he desired to
fear his name." And hence again it is said concerning desires, true
desires, "The desire of man is his kindness" (Prov 19:22). For a
man shows his heart, his love, his affections, and his delights,
in his desires; and since the grace of the fear of God is a grace
so pleasant in the sight of God, and of so sanctifying a nature
in the soul where it is, a true sincere desire to be blessed with
that grace must needs flow from some being of this grace in the
soul already.

True desires are lower than higher acts of grace, but God will not
overlook desires--"But now they desire a better country, that is,
an heavenly; wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God;
for he hath prepared for them a city." Mark, they desire a country,
and they shall have a city. At this low place, to wit, sincere
desires, God will meet the soul and will tell him that he hath
accepted of his desires, that his desires are his kindness, and
flow from grace itself: "He will fulfil the desire of them that fear
him." Therefore desires are not rejected of God; but they would,
if they did not flow from a principle of grace already in the soul;
therefore desires, sincere desires to fear God, flow from grace
already in the soul. Therefore, since thou fearest God, and it is
evident by thy desires that thou dost so do, thou art happy now
in this thy fear, and shalt be happy for ever hereafter in the
enjoyment of that which God in another world hath laid up for them
that fear him.

Third. Another encouragement for those that have this grace of fear
is this; this grace can make that man, that in many other things
is not capable of serving of God, serve him better than those that
have all without it. Poor Christian man, thou hast scarce been able
to do anything for God all thy days, but only to fear the Lord.
Thou art no preacher, and so canst not do him service that way;
thou art no rich man, and so canst not do him service with outward
substance; thou art no wise man, and so canst not do anything that
way; but here is thy mercy, thou fearest God. Though thou canst
not preach, thou canst fear God. Though thou hast no bread to feed
the belly, nor fleece to clothe the back of the poor, thou canst
fear God. O how "blessed is the man that feareth the Lord"; because
this duty of fearing of God is an act of the mind, and may be
done by the man that is destitute of all things but that holy and
blessed mind.

Blessed therefore is that man, for God hath not laid the comfort
of his people in the doing of external duties, nor the salvation
of their souls, but in believing, loving, and fearing God. Neither
hath he laid these things in actions done in their health nor in the
due management of their most excellent parts, but in the receiving
of Christ, and fear of God. The which, good Christian, thou mayest
do, and do acceptably, even though thou shouldest lie bed-rid all
thy days; thou mayest also be sick and believe; be sick and love,
be sick and fear God, and so be a blessed man. And here the poor
Christian hath something to answer them that reproach him for his
ignoble pedigree, and shortness of the glory of the wisdom of the
world. True, may that man say, I was taken out of the dunghill, I
was born in a base and low estate, but I fear God. I have no worldly
greatness, nor excellency of natural parts, but I fear God.

When Obadiah met with Elijah, he gave him no worldly and fantastical
compliment, nor did he glory in his promotion by Ahab the king of
Israel, but gravely, and after a gracious manner, said, "I thy servant
fear the Lord from my youth." Also when the mariners inquired of
Jonah, saying, "What is thine occupation, and whence comest thou?
what is thy country, and of what people art thou?" This was the
answer he gave them, "I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God
of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land" (Jonah 1:8,9).
Indeed this answer is the highest, and most noble in the world,
nor are there any, save a few, that in truth can thus express
themselves, though other answers they had enough; most can say,
I have wisdom, or might, or riches, or friends, or health, or the
like; these are common, and are greatly boasted in by the most;
but he is the man that feareth God, and he that can say, when they
say to him, What art thou? "I thy servant fear the Lord," he is
the man of many, he is to be honoured of men: though this, to wit,
that he feareth the Lord, is all that he hath in the world. He
hath the thing, the honour, the life, and glory that is lasting;
his blessedness will abide when all men's but his is buried in the
dust, in shame and contempt.[35]

A word to hypocrites.

Hypocrites, my last word is to you; the hypocrite is one that would
appear to be that in men's eyes that is nothing of in God's--thou
hypocrite, that wouldest be esteemed to be one that loves and that
fears God, but does not; I have this to say to thee, thy condition
is damnable, because thou art a hypocrite, and seekest to deceive
both God and man with guises, vizards, masks, shows, pretences, and
thy formal, carnal, feigned subjection to the outside of statutes,
laws, and commandments; but within thou art full of rottenness and
all excess.

Hypocrite, thou mayest by thy cunning shifts be veiled and hid from
men, but thou art naked before the eyes of God, and he knoweth that
his fear is not in thy heart (Luke 16:15).

Hypocrite, be admonished that there is not obedience accepted of
God, where the heart is destitute of this grace of fear. Keeping
of the commandments is but one part of the duty of man, and Paul
did that, even while he was a hypocrite (Phil 3). To "fear God and
keep his commandments, this is the whole duty of man" (Eccl 12:13).
This--fear God--the hypocrite, as a hypocrite, cannot do, and
therefore, as such, cannot escape the damnation of hell.

Hypocrite, thou must fear God first, even before thou dost offer to
meddle with the commandments, that is, as to the keeping of them.
Indeed, thou shouldest read therein, that thou mayest learn to fear
the Lord, but yet, "fear God" goes before the command to keep his
commandments. And if thou dost not fear God first, thou transgressest,
instead of keeping of the commandments.

Hypocrite, this word, FEAR GOD, is that which the hypocrite quite
forgets, although it is that which sanctifies the whole duty of
man. For this is that, and nothing without it, that can make a man
sincere in his obedience; the hypocrite looks for applause abroad,
and forgets that he is condemned at home, and both these he does
because he wanteth the fear of God.

Hypocrite, be admonished that none of the privileges that are
spoken of in the former part of the book belongs to thee, because
thou art a hypocrite; and if thou hope, thy hope shall be cut off,
and if thou lean upon thy house, both thou and it shall fall into
hell-fire. Triumph then, thy triumph is but for awhile. Joy then,
but the joy of the hypocrite is but for a moment (Job 8:13,15,
20:4-6).

Perhaps thou wilt not let go now, what, as a hypocrite, thou hast
got; but "what is the hope of the hypocrite, when God taketh away
his soul?" (Job 27:8). Hypocrite, thou shouldest have chosen the
fear of God, as thou hast chosen a profession without it, but thou
hast cast off fear, because thou art a hypocrite; and because thou
art such, thou shalt have the same measure that thou metest; God
will cast thee off, because thou art a hypocrite. God hath prepared
a fear for thee because thou didst not choose the fear of God, and
that fear shall come upon thee like desolation, and like an armed
man, and shall swallow thee up, thou and all that thou art (Prov
1:27).

Hypocrite, read this text and tremble--"The sinners in Zion are
afraid, fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. Who among us
shall dwell with the devouring fire? who among us shall dwell with
everlasting burnings?" (Isa 33:13,14).

Hypocrite, thou art not under the fatherly protection of God,
because thou art a hypocrite, and wantest his fear in thine heart.
The eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him, to deliver them.
But the fearless man or hypocrite is left to the snares and wiles
of the devil, to be caught therein and overcome, because he is
destitute of the fear of God.

Hypocrite, thou art like to have no other reward of God for thy
labour than that which the goats shall have;[36] the hypocrite,
because he is a hypocrite, shall not stand in God's sight. The
gain of thy religion thou spendest as thou gettest it. Thou wilt
not have one farthing overplus at death and judgment.

Hypocrite, God hath not intrusted thee with the least dram of his
saving grace, nor will he, because thou art a hypocrite: and as for
what thou hast, thou hast stolen it, even every man of you from his
neighbour; still pilfering out of their profession, even as Judas
did out of the bag. Thou comest like a thief into thy profession,
and like a thief thou shalt go out of the same. Jesus Christ hath
not counted thee faithful to commit to thee any of his jewels to
keep, because thou fearest him not. He hath given his "banner to
them that fear him, that it may be displayed because of the truth"
(Psa 60:4).

Hypocrite, thou art not true to God nor man, nor thine own soul,
because thou art a hypocrite! How should the Lord put any trust
in thee? Why should the saints look for any good from thee? Should
God give thee his Word, thou wilt sell it. Should men commit their
souls to thee, thou wilt destroy them, by making merchandise of
them, for thy own hypocritical designs. Yea, if the sun waxes hot,
thou wilt throw all away, and not endure the heat, because thou
art a hypocrite!

FOOTNOTES:

[1]This is a very remarkable illustration of godly fear. Jacob does
not swear by the omnipresence or omniscience of God--nor by his
omnipotence--nor by his love or mercy in his covenant--nor by the
God of Abraham, but by the "fear of his father Isaac"--the sole
object of his adoration. A most striking and solemn appeal to
Jehovah, fixing upon our hearts that Divine proverb, "The fear of
the Lord is the beginning of wisdom"--the source of all happiness,
both in time and in eternity.--Ed.

[2] It is of solemn importance that we feel the vast difference
between holy and unholy familiarity with God. Has he adopted us into
his family? Can we, by a new birth, say "Our Father?" Still he is
in heaven, we on earth. He is infinite in purity; Holy, Holy, Holy
is his name. We are defiled, and can only approach his presence
in the righteousness of the Saviour and Mediator. Then, O my soul,
if it is thy bliss to draw near to the throne of grace with holy
boldness, let it be with reverence and godly fear.--Ed.

[3] It is an awful thing to appeal to God for the truth of a lie!
All appeals to God, not required by law, are worse than useless;
they are wicked, and cast a doubt on the veracity of those who make
them--Ed.

[4] "To give the back"; to forsake, to depart, to treat with
contempt. See Imperial Dictionary, vol. i. p. 145.--Ed.

[5] The genuine disciple "who thinketh no evil" will say, Can this
be so now? Yes, reader, it is. Some go to God's house to worship
their ease and forgetfulness in sleep; some for worldly purposes;
some to admire the beauty of the frail body; but many to worship God
in spirit and in truth. Reader, inquire to which of these classes
you belong.--Ed.

[6] They worshipped God, not according to his appointment, but
their own inventions--the direction of their false prophets, or
their idolatrous kings, or the usages of the nations round about
them. The tradition of the elders was of more value and validity
with them than God's laws by Moses. This our Saviour applies to the
Jews in his time, who were formal in their devotions, and wedded to
their own inventions; and pronounces concerning them that in vain
do they worship God. How many still in worship regard the inventions
of man, and traditions of the church, more than the commands of
God.--Ed.

[7] The Word is the decree upon which we must depend or perish. In
vain, poor sinner, is any reliance upon churches or men; neither
Papist nor Protestant have any power "committed unto them" to
forgive sins. If they claim it, believe them not, but pity their
pride and delusion. Christ is the Rock, and not poor erring Peter,
as some have vainly imagined. Peter is dead, awaiting the resurrection
of his body, and the great day of judgment; but Christ ever liveth
at all times, and in all places, able to save unto the uttermost.
Put no trust in man, but in thy broken spirit seek the blessing of
Christ, that he may pardon thy sins.--Ed.

[8] The fear of the wicked arises from a corrupt, sinful,
self-condemning conscience; they fear God as an angry judge, and
therefore consider him as their enemy. As they love and will not part
with their sins, so they are in continual dread of punishment.--Mason.

[9] "To-elbow all his days in his lord's vineyard"; to sit or stand
idly resting upon his elbows, instead of labouring in the vineyard.
"A sovereign shame so elbows him."--King Lear, Act iv, Scene 3.--Ed.

[10] "Gear"; apparel, furniture, implements. "The apostles were
not fixed in their residence, but were ready in their gears to move
whither they were called."--Barrow.--Ed.

[11] God does not limit himself as to his mode of calling poor
sinners. The three thousand he convinced at one hour, and they
immediately made a profession, but Bunyan was for years in a state
of alarming uncertainty; some are driven by fiery terrors, others
by a still small voice. Reader, our anxious inquiry should be,
Have we entered in by Christ the gate? Are our fruits meet for
repentance? Let no one vaunt of his experience, because he go
well bedaubed with the dirt of the slough. Every soul that enters
the gate is equally a miracle of grace.--Ed.

[12] This is remarkably instanced in Bunyan's Grace Abounding.--Ed.

[13] Those who are adopted into the family of heaven are "justified
from all things"; being delivered from sin, the curse, and wrath,
"there is now no condemnation for them"; and trusting to Jesus'
precious blood of pardon, to his righteousness for acceptance, and
to his grace for sanctification, they are, by the indwelling of
the Spirit which adopted them, possessed of that love which casteth
out fear, and rejoiceth in hope of the glory of God. And to those
who, through their manifold infirmities and departures, are often
beset with unbelieving fears, the Lord says, for their encouragement,
"Fear thou not, for I am with thee; I will help thee; yea, I will uphold
thee with the right hand of my righteousness" (Isa 41:10).--Mason.

[14] Effectual grace in the soul is accompanied by doubts and
fears, owing to the remains of indwelling corruption; hence arises
a continual warfare. Believer, how needful is it ever to retain
your confidence and assurance of your Lord's love to you! Rely on
his faithfulness, persevere steadfastly in the way of duty, looking
to Jesus, and living upon his fulness.--Mason. How does all this
reasoning remind us of Bunyan's own experience, recorded in his
Grace Abounding; he was not ignorant of Satan's devices.--Ed.

[15] Alas! how few attain to this most blessed state. To delight
so in the Word--to make it so much our daily study, and the object
of our meditations at night, as to have "its very form engraven
upon the face of our souls." Happy is the man that is in such a
case. O my soul, why is it not thy case?--Ed.

[16] The filial fear of God is most prevalent when the heart
is impressed with a lively sense of the love of God manifested in
Christ. As a dutiful and obedient child fears to offend an affectionate
parent, or as a person of grateful heart would be extremely careful
not to grieve a kind and bountiful friend, who is continually loading
him with favours and promoting his true happiness; so, and much
more, will the gracious soul be afraid of displeasing the Lord,
his bountiful and unwearied benefactor, who is crowning him with
loving kindness and tender mercies.--Mason.

[17] It is no new thing for those who are in public places, to
seek themselves more than the public welfare; nay, and to serve
themselves by the public loss.--Henry.

[18] How does this remind us of the character of By-ends in the
"Pilgrim's Progress" !--Ed.

[19] So Ainsworth understands, p. 134, vol. 10. He renders it,
"lurking lions, which are lusty, strong-toothed, fierce, roaring,
and ravenous. And hereby," says he, "may be meant the rich and mighty
of the world, whom God often bringeth to misery." "They that are
ravenous, and prey on all about them, shall want, but the meek shall
inherit the earth; they shall not want who, with quiet obedience,
work and mind their own business; plain-hearted Jacob has pottage
enough, when Esau, the cunning hunter, is ready to perish."
Henry.--Ed.

[20] "The conduct of angels" means not merely their guiding pilgrims
in the way, but also, in a military sense, a guard, or what is now
called a convoy.--Ed.

[21] See margin, Genesis 41:43, and 40:8.--Ed.

[22] To publish by sound of trumpet, to trumpet good tidings. In
Bunyan's time it was never used ironically.--Ed.

[23] This if from the Bible, and not from the inferior version in
the Book of Common Prayer, commonly called the reading Psalms.--Ed.

[24] Sternhold and Hopkin's edit. 1635.--The propriety of singing
in public worship was strongly debated by some of the Nonconformists.
There were very weighty reasons, in persecuting times, for meetings
being held as quietly as possible. The Quakers to this day do not
admit singing in their assemblies. The introduction of this psalm
proves that Bunyan was acquainted with the "singing" Psalms, and,
in all probability, practised singing in public worship. When
James I. improved this version for church use, called the Psalms
of KING David, translated by KING James, his last four lines are--


    Thou of Jerusalem shalt see
        While as thou liv'st the good,
    Thou shalt thy children's children see,
        And peace on Israel's brood.


How blessed are we in our day with the poetry of Watts, Wesley,
and a host of others, who have supplied the church with beautiful
soul-inspiring compositions, without fear to restrain us in using
them.--Ed.

[25] No one can charge Bunyan with a superstitious notion of dreams,
whether asleep or as if asleep. Such a mode of interpretation
as he recommends is both rational and scriptural. To dream awake
is thus explained--"They dream on in a course of reading without
digesting."--Locke.--Ed.

[26] Whoever thou art, beseech the Lord to weigh thee in the
balances of the sanctuary. No fear of God--no grace in the soul.
Of this class is the proud, the covetous, the glutton, the liar,
the apostate, the perverter of God's people from the right way;
obstinate and incorrigible backsliders; those who neither mourn
nor sigh for the wickedness of the land; they that prefer their
own fancies, dreams, frames, and feelings, to the Word of God;
swearers, adulterers, perjured persons, and oppressors of the poor;
they that insult the godly, and rejoice at their sufferings; they
that have no love, gratitude, nor sense of duty to God, as the
fountain of their unmerited mercies. O reader, give God no rest
until, by his Word and Spirit, he imparts to thee this holy fear as
the earnest of glory hereafter; without it you are perishing.--Mason.--Ed.

[27] "Snaffle"; a loose bridle with a curb. "To snaffle"; to be
easily led.


    "The third o' the' world is yours, which with a snaffle,
    You may pace easy, but not such a wise."
            Antony and Cleopatra.--Ed.


[28] How familiar but striking an illustration. Reader, look well
to the mainspring, and see also that the wheels are not clogged.
We ought to be living epistles, known and read of all men.--Ed.

[29] "A royster"; a violent, riotous, blustering, turbulent,
fellow--a species of men now much out of date, as are jails and
gibbets, sword and burning stake. How great and true that courage
which could look at, and expect, such trials, without shrinking,
when they were threatened as a reward for love to Christ and holy
obedience to his gospel!--Ed.

[30] This is a very strong and striking expression. "To soak,"
means to imbibe as much as we can contain; and as to the influence
of godly fear, happy shall we be in proportion as we are enabled
to follow Bunyan's advice.--Ed.

[31] The words, "he made them houses," we humbly suggest, may not
only mean that these God-fearing women had safe dwelling-places,
but, in a more extensive sense, God made them the heads of honourable
families, see 1 Samuel 2:35; 2 Samuel 7:11, 13, 27, 29; 1 Kings
2:24, 11:28. So David's prayer was, "Let my house be established
before thee; thou, O my God, wilt build me an house" (1 Chron
17:24,25).--Ed.

[32] Royal patents, in Bunyan's time, were lucrative but most oppressive,
conferring upon favourites, or their nominees, an exclusive right
to deal in any article of manufacture. But the patent to God's
fearers, to trust in him when involved in darkness and distress,
is a blessed privilege, injurious to none.--Ed.

[33] "Grabbling"; sprawling along, drawing the body, by the hands,
through a small aperture in a mine.--Ed.

[34] "Tines"; from the Saxon; the teeth or spikes in the rowel of
a spur.--Ed.

[35] "Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord." Blessedness
shall attend him all the way to heaven, in proportion as that fear
abounds. It is a heaven on earth to live in the constant fear of
God--to have a reverential awe and fear of his majesty immovably
fixed and implanted in the soul. The grace of fear has an eminent
influence in a Christian's sanctification; it is a powerful restraint
from sin. A holy fear of God, and a humble fear of ourselves,
which are alike of Divine operation, will preserve us from sin and
engage us to obedience. God will be our protector and instructor,
our guide and our everlasting deliverer from all evil. Let us not
rest satisfied with the greatest attainments short of "perfecting
holiness in the fear of God."--Mason.

[36] By the goats we are to understand the hypocrites and the
finally impenitent, who will depart into everlasting fire, prepared
for the devil and his angels; see Matthew 25:32, 33-41.--Ed.

***

THE DOCTRINE

OF

THE LAW AND GRACE UNFOLDED;

OR,

A DISCOURSE TOUCHING THE LAW AND GRACE; THE NATURE OF THE ONE, AND
THE NATURE OF THE OTHER; SHOWING WHAT THEY ARE, AS THEY ARE THE
TWO COVENANTS; AND LIKEWISE, WHO THEY BE, AND WHAT THEIR CONDITIONS
ARE, THAT BE UNDER EITHER OF THESE TWO COVENANTS:

Wherein, for the better understanding of the reader, there are
several questions answered touching the law and grace, very easy to
be read, and as easy to be understood, by those that are the sons
of wisdom, the children of the second covenant.

"For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better
hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God" (Heb 7:19).

"Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without
the deeds of the law" (Rom 3:28).

"To him [therefore] that worketh not, but believeth on Him that
justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness"
(Rom 4:5).

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

It is difficult to understand those peculiar trials which called
forth the mighty energies of Bunyan's mind, unless we are acquainted
with the times in which he lived. The trammels of statecraft and
priestcraft had been suddenly removed from religion, and men were
left to form their own opinions as to rites and ceremonies. In this
state of abrupt liberty, some wild enthusiasts ran into singular
errors; and Bunyan's first work on "Gospel Truths" was published
to correct them. Then followed that alarm to thoughtless souls--"A
Few Sighs from Hell"; and, in 1659, as a further declaration of the
most important truths of revelation, this work on the two covenants
was sent forth to chastise error, and comfort the saints of God.
It was published many times during the author's life; and since
then, to a late period, very large impressions have been circulated.
Upon a subject of such vast importance--upon which hangs all our
eternal interests--all our indescribable joys or sorrows in a future
and never-ending state--the requirements of our Creator--and His
gracious provision of pardoning mercy, upon our failing to keep
His Law--these are subjects of intense interest. How important is
it that all our researches into these solemn realities should be
guided simply by the revealed will of God! That was the fountain
at which Bunyan drunk in all his knowledge; and with simplicity,
and most earnest desire to promote the glory of God in the salvation
of sinners, he here gives the result of his patient, prayerful,
painful investigation. The humble dependence upon Divine mercy which
the author felt is very striking. He was sensible of his want of
education; "no vain, whimsical, scholar-like terms"--no philosophy
from Plato or Aristotle. He felt, as to human teaching, his weakness,
but proved that, "when he was weak, then was he strong." He claimed
an interest in the fervent prayers of his fellow saints--"My heart
is vile, the devil lieth at watch, trust myself I dare not; if
God do not help me, my heart will deceive me." This was the proper
spirit in which to enter upon so solemn a subject; and the aid he
sought was vouchsafed to him, and appears throughout this important
work. His first object is to define what is the Law, a strict
obedience to which is exacted upon all mankind. It was given to
Adam, and was afterwards more fully developed upon Mount Sinai.
It commands implicit, universal, perfect obedience, upon pain of
eternal ruin. He shows us that man, under the influence of that
law, and while a stranger to the Law of Grace, may repent and reform
his conduct, become a member of a Christian church, be a virgin
waiting for his Lord, "but not step even upon the lowest round of
the ladder that reacheth to heaven." While man is a stranger to the
new birth, "his destiny is the lion's den; yea, worse than that,
to be thrown into Hell to the very devils." Bunyan in this, as
well as all other of his works, is awfully severe upon those who
say, "Let us sin that grace may abound," perverting the consolatory
doctrine of Divine grace to their souls' destruction. "What!
because Christ is a Saviour, wilt thou be a sinner! because His
grace abounds, therefore thou wilt abound in sin! O wicked wretch!
rake Hell all over, and surely I think thy fellow will scarce
be found. If Christ will not serve their turn, but they must have
their sins too, take them, Devil; if Heaven will not satisfy them,
take them, Hell; devour them, burn them, Hell!" "Tell the hogs of
this world what a hog-sty is prepared for them, even such an one
as a God hath prepared to put the devil and his angels into."

To the distressed, sin-beaten Christian, this book abounds with
consolation, and instructions how to overcome the devices of Satan,
who will plant the Ten Commandments, like ten great guns, to destroy
thy hopes. "Learn to outshoot the devil in his own bow, and to cut
off his head with his own sword. Doth Satan tell thee thou prayest
but faintly and with cold devotions? Answer him, I am glad you told
me, I will trust the more to Christ's prayers, and groan, sigh,
and cry more earnestly at the Throne of Grace." To such readers
as have been driven to the verge of despair by a fear of having
committed the unpardonable sin, here is strong consolation, and a
very explicit scriptural definition of that awful crime. Want of
space prevents me adding more than my earnest desire that the reading
of this treatise may be productive of solid peace and comfort.--ED.

THE EPISTLE TO THE READER

READER,

If at any time there be held forth by the preacher the freeness
and fullness of the Gospel, together with the readiness of the Lord
of Peace to receive those that have any desire thereto, presently
it is the spirit of the world to cry out, Sure this man disdains
the law, slights the law, and counts that of none effect; and all
because there is not, together with the Gospel, mingled the doctrine
of the law, which is not a right dispensing of the Word according
to truth and knowledge. Again; if there be the terror, horror, and
severity of the law discovered to a people by the servants of Jesus
Christ, though they do not speak of it to the end people should
trust to it, by relying on it as it is a covenant of works; but
rather that they should be driven further from that covenant, even
to embrace the tenders and privileges of the second, yet, poor
souls, because they are unacquainted with the natures of these
two covenants, or either of them, therefore, "they say," "Here
is nothing but preaching of the law, thundering of the law"; when,
alas, if these two be not held forth--to wit, the Covenant of
Works and the Covenant of Grace, together with the nature of the
one and the nature of the other--souls will never be able either to
know what they are by nature or what they lie under. Also, neither
can they understand what grace is, nor how to come from under the
law to meet God in and through that other most glorious covenant,
through which and only through which, God can communicate of Himself
grace, glory, yea, even all the good things of another world.

I, having considered these things, together with others, have made
bold to present yet once more to thy view, my friend, something of
the mind of God, to the end, if it shall be but blessed to thee,
thou mayest be benefited thereby; for verily these things are not
such as are ordinary and of small concernment, but do absolutely
concern thee to know, and that experimentally too, if ever thou
do partake of the glory of God through Jesus Christ, and so escape
the terror and insupportable vengeance that will otherwise come
upon thee through His justice, because of thy living and dying in
thy transgressions against the Law of God. And therefore, while
thou livest here below, it is thy duty, if thou wish thyself happy
for the time to come, to give up thyself to the studying of these
two covenants treated of in the ensuing discourse; and so to study
them until thou, through grace, do not only get the notion of the
one and of the other in thy head, but until thou do feel the very
power, life, and glory of the one and of the other: for take this
for granted, he that is dark as touching the scope, intent, and
nature of the law, is also dark as to the scope, nature, and glory
of the Gospel; and also he that hath but a notion of the one, will
barely have any more than a notion of the other.

And the reason is this: because so long as people are ignorant of
the nature of the law, and of their being under it--that is, under
the curse and condemning power of it, by reason of their sin against
it--so long they will be careless, and negligent as to the inquiring
after the true knowledge of the Gospel. Before the commandment
came--that is, in the spirituality of it--Paul was alive--that is,
thought himself safe; which is clear, (Rom 7:9,10 compared with
Phil 3:5-11, etc). But when that came, and was indeed discovered
unto him by the Spirit of the Lord, then Paul dies (Rom 7) to all
his former life (Phil 3) and that man which before could content
himself to live, though ignorant of the Gospel, cries out now, "I
count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of
Christ Jesus my Lord" (verse 8). Therefore, I say, so long they will
be ignorant of the nature of the Gospel, and how glorious a thing
it is to be found within the bounds of it; for we use to say, that
man that knoweth not himself to be sick, that man will not look
out for himself a physician; and this Christ knew full well when
He saith, "The whole have no need of the physician, but the sick";1
that is, none will in truth desire the physician unless they know
they be sick. That man also that hath got but a notion of the
law--a notion, that is, the knowledge of it in the head, so as to
discourse and talk of it--if he hath not felt the power of it, and
that effectually too, it is to be feared will at the best be but a
notionist in the Gospel; he will not have the experimental knowledge
of the same in his heart; nay, he will not seek nor heartily desire
after it; and all because, as I said before, he hath not experience
of the wounding, cutting, killing nature of the other.

I say, therefore, if thou wouldst know the authority and power of
the Gospel, labour first to know the power and authority of the law;
for I am verily persuaded that the want of this one thing--namely,
the knowledge of the law, is one cause why so many are ignorant of
the other. That man that doth know the law doth not know in deed
and in truth that he is a sinner; and that man that doth not know
he is a sinner, doth not know savingly that there is a Saviour.

Again; that man that doth not know the nature of the law, that man
doth not know the nature of sin; and that man that knoweth not the
nature of sin, will not regard to know the nature of a Saviour;
this is proved (John 8:31-36). These people were professors, and
yet did not know the truth--the Gospel; and the reason was, because
they did not know themselves, and so not the law. I would not have
thee mistake me, Christian reader; I do not say that the law of
itself will lead any soul to Jesus Christ; but the soul being killed
by the law, through the operation of its severity seizing on the
soul, then the man, if he be enlightened by the Spirit of Christ
to see where remedy is to be had, will not, through grace, be
contented without the real and saving knowledge through faith of
Him.

If thou wouldst, then, wash thy face clean, first take a glass and
see where it is dirty; that is, if thou wouldst indeed have thy
sins washed away by the blood of Christ, labour first to see them
in the glass of the law, and do not be afraid to see thy besmeared
condition, but look on every spot thou hast; for he that looks on
the foulness of his face by the halves, will wash by the halves;
even so, he that looks on his sins by the halves, he will seek for
Christ by the halves. Reckon thyself, therefore, I say, the biggest
sinner in the world, and be persuaded that there is none worse than
thyself; then let the guilt of it seize on thy heart, then also
go in that case and condition to Jesus Christ, and plunge thyself
into His merits and the virtue of His blood; and after that, thou
shalt speak of the things of the law and of the Gospel experimentally,
and the very language of the children of God shall feelingly drop
from thy lips, and not till then (James 1).

Let this therefore learn thee thus much: he that hath not seen his
lost condition hath not seen a safe condition; he that did never
see himself in the devil's snare, did never see himself in Christ's
bosom. "This my Son was dead, and is alive again: he was lost, and
is found." "Among whom we also had our conversation in time past."
2 "But now are (so many of us as believe) returned unto" Jesus
Christ, "the" chief "Shepherd and Bishop of your souls."

I say, therefore, if thou do find in this treatise, in the first
place, something touching the nature, end, and extent of the law,
do not thou cry out, therefore, all of a sudden, saying, "Here is
nothing but the terror, horror, and thundering sentences of the
law."

Again; if thou do find in the second part of this discourse
something of the freeness and fullness of the Gospel, do not thou
say neither, "Here is nothing but grace, therefore, surely, an
undervaluing of the law." No; but read it quite through, and so
consider of it; and I hope thou shalt find the two covenants--which
all men are under, either the one or the other--discovered, and
held forth in their natures, ends, bounds, together with the state
and condition of them that are under the one, and of them that are
under the other.

There be some that through ignorance do say how that such men as
preach terror and amazement to sinners are beside the book, and
are ministers of the letter--the law, and not of the Spirit--the
Gospel; but I would answer them, citing them to the Sixteenth of
Luke, from the nineteenth verse to the end; and (1 Cor 6:9,10; Gal
3:10; Rom 3:9-19) only this caution I would give by the way, how
that they which preach terror to drive souls to the obtaining of
salvation by the works of the law, that preaching is not the right
Gospel preaching; yet when saints speak of the sad state that man
are in by nature, to discover to souls their need of the Gospel,
this is honest preaching, and he that doth do so, he doth the work
of a Gospel minister (Rom 3:9-25).

Again, there are others that say, because we do preach the free,
full, and exceeding grace discovered in the Gospel, therefore we
make void the law; when indeed, unless the Gospel be held forth in
the glory thereof without confusion, by mingling the Covenant of
Works therewith, the law cannot be established. "Do we then make
void the law through faith," or preaching of the Gospel; nay, stay,
saith Paul, "God forbid: yea, we establish the law" (Rom 3:31).

And verily, he that will indeed establish the law, or set it in
its own place, for so I understand the words, must be sure to hold
forth the Gospel in its right colour and nature; for if a man be
ignorant of the nature of the Gospel and the Covenant of Grace,
they, or he, will be very apt to remove the law out of its place,
and that because they are ignorant, not knowing "what they say,
nor whereof they affirm."

And let me tell you, if a man be ignorant of the Covenant of Grace,
and the bounds and boundlessness of the Gospel, though he speak and
make mention of the name of the Father, and of the Son, and also
of the name of the new covenant, and the blood of Christ, yet at
this very time, and in these very words, he will preach nothing
but the law, and that as a Covenant of Works.

Reader, I must confess it is a wonderfully mysterious thing, and
he had need have a wiser spirit than his own that can rightly set
these two covenants in their right places, that when he speaks of
the one he doth not jostle the other out of its place. O, to be so
well enlightened as to speak of the one--that is, the law--for to
magnify the Gospel; and also to speak of the Gospel so as to establish,
and yet not to idolize, the law, nor any particular thereof! It is
rare, and to be heard and found but in very few men's breasts.

If thou shouldst say, What is it to speak to each of these two
covenants so as to set them in their right places, and also to use
the terror of the one so as to magnify and advance the glory of
the other? To this I shall answer also, read the ensuing discourse,
but with an understanding heart, and it is like thou wilt find a
reply therein to the same purpose, which may be to thy satisfaction.

Reader, if thou do find this book empty of fantastical expressions,
and without light, vain, whimsical, scholar-like terms, thou must
understand it is because I never went to school to Aristotle,
or Plato, but was brought up at my father's house, in a very mean
condition, among a company of poor countrymen. But if thou do find
a parcel of plain, yet sound, true, and home sayings, attribute that
to the Lord Jesus His gifts and abilities, which He hath bestowed
upon such a poor creature as I am and have been. And if thou,
being a seeing Christian, dost find me coming short, though rightly
touching at some things, attribute that either to my brevity, or,
if thou wilt, to my weaknesses, for I am full of them. A word or
two more, and so I shall have done with this.

First. And the first is, Friend, if thou do not desire the salvation
of thy soul, yet I pray thee to read this book over with serious
consideration; it may be it will stir up in thee some desires to
look out after it, which at present thou mayest be without.

Secondly, If thou dost find any stirrings in thy heart by thy reading
such an unworthy man's works as mine are, be sure that in the first
place thou give glory to God, and give way to thy convictions,
and be not too hasty in getting them off from thy conscience; but
let them so work till thou dost see thyself by nature void of all
graces, as faith, hope, knowledge of God, Christ, and the Covenant
of Grace.

Thirdly, Then, in the next place, fly in all haste to Jesus Christ,
thou being sensible of thy lost condition without Him, secretly
persuading of thy soul that Jesus Christ standeth open-armed
to receive thee, to wash away thy sins, to clothe thee with His
righteousness, and is willing, yea, heartily willing, to present thee
before the presence of the glory of God and among the innumerable
company of angels with exceeding joy. This being thus, in the next
place, do not satisfy thyself with these secret and first persuasions,
which do or may encourage thee to come to Jesus Christ; but be
restless till thou dost find by blessed experience the glorious
glory of this the second covenant extended unto thee, and sealed
upon thy soul with the very Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ. And
that thou mayest not slight this my counsel, I beseech thee, in
the second place, consider these following things--

First, If thou dost get off thy convictions, and not the right
way (which is by seeing thy sins washed away by the blood of Jesus
Christ), it is a question whether ever God will knock at thy heart
again or no; but rather say, such an one "is joined to idols, let
him alone" (Hosea 4:17). Though he be in a natural state, "let him
alone." Though he be in or under the curse of the law, "let him
alone." Though he be in the very hand of the devil, "let him alone."
Though he be a-going post-haste to Hell, "let him alone." Though
his damnation will not only be damnation for sins against the law,
but also for slighting the Gospel, yet "let him alone." My Spirit,
My ministers, My Word, My grace, My mercy, My love, My pity, My
common providences, shall no more strive with him; "let him alone."
O sad! O miserable! who would slight convictions that are on their
souls, which (if not slighted) tend so much for their good?

Secondly, If thou shalt not regard how thou do put off convictions,
but put them off without the precious blood of Christ being savingly
applied to thy soul, thou art sure to have the mis-spending of that
conviction to prove the hardening of thy heart against the next
time thou art to hear the Word preached or read. This is commonly
seen, that those souls that have not regarded those convictions
that are at first set upon their spirits, do commonly, and that by
the just judgments of God upon them, grow more hard, more senseless,
more seared and sottish in their spirits; for some, who formerly
would quake and weep, and relent under the hearing of the Word, do
now for the present sit so senseless, so seared, and hardened in
their consciences, that certainly if they should have hell-fire
thrown in their faces, as it sometimes cried up in their ears, they
would scarce be moved; and this comes upon them as a just judgment
of God (2 Thess 2:11,12).

Thirdly, If thou do slight these, or those convictions that may
be set upon thy heart by reading of this discourse, or hearing of
any other good man preach the Word of God sincerely, thou wilt have
the stifling of these or those convictions to account and answer
for at the day of judgment; not only thy sins, that are commonly
committed by thee in thy calling and common discourse, but thou shalt
be called to a reckoning for slighting convictions, disregarding
of convictions, which God useth as a special means to make poor
sinners see their lost condition and the need of a Saviour. Now
here I might add many more considerations besides these, to the
end thou mayest be willing to tend and listen to convictions; as,

First, Consider thou hast a precious soul, more worth than the whole
world; and this is commonly worked upon, if ever it be saved, by
convictions.

Secondly, This soul is for certain to go to Hell, if thou shalt be
a slighter of convictions.

Thirdly, If that go to Hell, thy body must go thither too, and then
never to come out again. "Now consider this, ye that" are apt to
"forget God," and His convictions, "lest He tear you in pieces,
and there be none to deliver" (Psa 50:22).

But if thou shalt be such an one that shall, notwithstanding thy
reading of thy misery, and also of God's mercy, shall persist to
go on in thy sins, know, in the first place, that here thou shalt
be left, by the things that thou readest, without excuse; and in
the world to come thy damnation will be exceedingly aggravated for
thy not regarding of them, and turning from thy sins, which were
not only reproved by them, but also for rejecting of that Word of
Grace that did instruct thee how and which way thou shouldst be
saved from them. And so farewell; I shall leave thee, and also this
discourse, to God, who I know will pass a righteous judgment both
upon that and thee. I am yours, though not to serve your lusts
and filthy minds, yet to reprove, instruct, and, according to that
proportion of faith and knowledge which God hath given me, to declare
unto you the way of life and salvation. Your judgings, railings,
surmisings, and disdaining of me, that I shall leave till the fiery
judgment comes, in which the offender shall not go unpunished, be
he you or me; yet I shall pray for you, wish well to you, and do
you what good I can. And that I might not write or speak in vain,
Christian, pray for me to our God with much earnestness, fervency,
and frequently, in all your knockings at our Father's door, because
I do very much stand in need thereof; for my work is great, my heart
is vile, the devil lieth at watch, the world would fain be saying,
"Aha, aha, thus we would have it"; and of myself, keep myself I
cannot; trust myself I dare not; if God do not help me, I am sure
it will not be long before my heart deceive me, and the world would
have their advantage of me, and so God be dishonoured by me, and
thou also ashamed to own me. O, therefore, be much in prayer for
me, thy fellow! I trust, in that glorious grace that is conveyed
from Heaven to sinners, by which they are not only sanctified here
in this world, but shall be glorified in that which is to come;
unto which, the Lord of His mercy bring us all.

John Bunyan. ___________________

These are several titles which are set over the several TRUTHS
contained in this book, for thy sooner finding of them--

THE FIRST PART

1. The words of the text opened, and the doctrines laid down. [This
doctrine, that there are some that are under the law, or under the
Covenant of Works.] 2. What the Covenant of Works is, and when it
is given. 3. What it is to be under the Covenant of Works. 4. Who
they are that are under the Covenant of Works. 5. What men may
attain to that are under this Covenant of Works.

THE SECOND PART

1. The doctrine proved. 2. The new covenant made with Christ. 3.
The conditions of the new covenant. 4. The suretiship of Christ. 5.
Christ the Messenger of the new covenant. 6. Christ the Sacrifice
of the new covenant. 7. Christ the High Priest of the new covenant.
8. Christ completely fulfilled the conditions of the new covenant.
9. The Covenant of Grace unchangeable; the opposers answered. 10.
Who, and how men are actually brought into the new covenant. 11.
A word of experience. 12. The privileges of the new covenant. 13.
Two Hell-bred objections answered. 14. A use of examination about
the old covenant. 15. A legal spirit. 16. The use of the new covenant.
17. The unpardonable sin. 18. Objections answered for their comfort
who would have their part in the new covenant. ___________________

THE DOCTRINE OF THE LAW AND GRACE UNFOLDED; OR, A DISCOVERY OF THE
LAW AND GRACE; THE NATURE OF THE ONE, AND THE NATURE OF THE OTHER,
AS THEY ARE THE TWO COVENANTS, ETC.

"FOR YE ARE NOT UNDER THE LAW, BUT UNDER GRACE" (Rom 6:14).

[THE WORDS OF THE TEXT OPENED, AND THE DOCTRINES LAID DOWN.]

In the three former chapters, the Apostle is pleading for the
salvation of sinners by grace without the works of the law, to the
end he might confirm the saints, and also that he might win over
all those that did oppose the truth of this doctrine, or else leave
them the more without excuse; and that he might so do, he taketh
in hand, first, to show the state of all men naturally, or as they
come into the world by generation, saying, in the Third Chapter, "There
is none righteous, no, not one; there is none that understandeth;
there is none that doeth good," etc. As if he had said, It seems there
is a generation of men that think to be saved by the righteousness
of the law; but let me tell them that they are much deceived, in that
they have already sinned against the law; for by the disobedience
of one, many, yea all, were brought into a state of condemnation
(Rom 5:12-20). Now, in the Sixth Chapter he doth, as if he had
turned him round to the brethren, and said, My brethren, you see
now that it is clear and evident that it is freely by the grace of
Christ that we do inherit eternal life. And again, for your comfort,
my brethren, let me tell you that your condition is wondrous safe,
in that you are under grace; for, saith he, "Sin shall not have
dominion over you"; that is, neither the damning power, neither the
filthy power, so as to destroy your souls: "For ye are not under
the law"; that is, you are not under that that will damn you for
sin; "but" you are "under grace," or stand thus in relation to
God, that though you have sinned, yet you shall be pardoned. "For
ye are not under the law, but under grace." If any should ask what
is the meaning of the word "under," I answer, it signifieth, you
are not held, kept, or shut up by it so as to appear before God
under that administration, and none but that; or thus, you are
not now bound by the authority of the law to fulfill it and obey
it, so as to have no salvation without you so do; or thus, if you
transgress against any one tittle of it, you by the power of it
must be condemned. No, no, for you are not so under it; that is,
not thus under the law. Again, "For ye are not under the law." What
is meant by this word "law"? The word "law," in Scripture, may be
taken more ways than one, as might be largely cleared. There is the
law of faith, the law of sin, the law of men, the law of works,
otherwise called the Covenant of Works, or the first or old
covenant. "In that He saith a new covenant," which is the grace of
God, or commonly called the Covenant of Grace, "He hath made the
first old," that is, the Covenant of Works, or the law (Heb 8:13).
I say, therefore, the word "law" and the word "grace," in this
Sixth of the Romans, do hold forth the two covenants which all men
are under; that is, either the one or the other. "For ye are not
under the law"--that is, you to whom I do now write these words,
who are and have been effectually brought into the faith of Jesus,
you are not under the law, or under the Covenant of Works. He
doth not, therefore, apply these words to all, but to some, when
he saith, "But ye"; mark, ye, ye believers, ye converted persons,
ye saints, ye that have been born. (YE) "for ye are not under the
law," implying others are that are in their natural state, that
have not been brought in to the Covenant of Grace by faith in Jesus
Christ.

The words, therefore, being thus understood, there is discovered
these two truths in them--DOCTRINE FIRST. That there are some in
Gospel times that are under the Covenant of Works. DOCTRINE SECOND.
That there is never a believer under the law, as it is the Covenant
of Works, but under grace through Christ. "For ye," you believers,
you converted persons, ye "are not under the law but under grace";
or, for you are delivered and brought into or under the Covenant
of Grace.

DOCTRINE FIRST.

For the first, THAT THERE ARE SOME THAT ARE UNDER THE LAW, OR UNDER
THE COVENANT OF WORKS, see, I pray you, that Scripture in the Third
of the Romans, where the Apostle, speaking before of sins against
the law, and of the denunciations thereof against those that are
in that condition, he saith, "What things soever the law saith, it
saith to them who are under the law"; mark, "it saith to them who
are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the
world become guilty before God" (Rom 3:19). That is, all those that
are under the law as a Covenant of Works, that are yet in their
sins, and unconverted, as I told you before. Again he saith, "But
if ye be led by the Spirit, ye are not under the law" (Gal 5:18).
Implying again, that those which are for sinning against the law,
or the works of the law, either as it is the old covenant, these
are under the law, and not under the Covenant of Grace. Again he
saith, "For as many as are of the works of the law are under the
curse" (Gal 3:10). That is, they that are under the law are under
the curse; for mark, they that are under the Covenant of Grace are
not under the curse. Now, there are but two covenants, therefore,
it must needs be that they that are under the curse are under the
law, seeing those that are under the other covenant are not under
the curse, but under the blessing. "So, then, they which be of
faith are blessed with faithful Abraham," but the rest are under
the law (Gal 3:9).

Now I shall proceed to what I do intend to speak unto. FIRST.
I shall show you what the Covenant of Works, or the law, is, and
when it was first given, together with the nature of it. SECOND. I
shall show you what it is to be under the law, or Covenant of Works,
and the miserable state of all those that are under it. THIRD. I
shall show you who they are that are under this covenant, or law.
FOURTH. I shall show you how far a man may go and yet be under
this covenant, or law.

[WHAT THE COVENANT OF WORKS IS, AND WHEN IT WAS GIVEN.]

FIRST. What this Covenant of Works is, and when it was given. [What
this covenant is.] The Covenant of Works or the law, here spoken
of, is the law delivered upon Mount Sinai to Moses, in two tables
of stone, in ten particular branches or heads; for this see Galatians
4. The Apostle, speaking there of the law, and of some also that
through delusions of false doctrine were brought again, as it were,
under it, or at least were leaning that way (verse 21) he saith,
As for you that desire to be under the law, I will show you the
mystery of Abraham's two sons, which he had by Hagar and Sarah;
these two do signify the two covenants; the one named Hagar signifies
Mount Sinai, where the law was delivered to Moses on two tables of
stone (Exo 24:12; 34:1; Deu 10:1). Which is that, that whosoever
is under, he is destitute of, and altogether without the grace of
Christ in his heart at the present. "For I testify again to every
man," saith he, speaking to the same people, that "Christ has become
of no effect unto you, whosoever of you are justified by the law,"
namely, that given on Mount Sinai--"ye are fallen from grace" (Gal
5:3,4). That is, not that any can be justified by the law; but this
meaning is, that all those that seek justification by the works of
the law, they are not such as seek to be under the second covenant,
the Covenant of Grace. Also the Apostle, speaking again of these
two covenants, saith, "But if the ministration of death," or the
law, for it is all one, "written and engraven in stones," mark that,
"was glorious, how shall not the ministration of the Spirit," or
the Covenant of Grace, "be rather glorious?" (2 Cor 3:7,8). As if
he had said, It is true, there was a glory in the Covenant of Works,
and a very great excellency did appear in it--namely, in that given
in the stones on Sinai--yet there is another covenant, the Covenant
of Grace, that doth exceed it for comfort and glory.

[When it was given.] But, though this law was delivered to Moses
from the hands of angels in two tables of stones, on Mount Sinai,
yet this was not the first appearing of this law to man; but even
this in substance, though possibly not so openly, was given to the
first man, Adam, in the Garden of Eden, in these words: "And the
LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden
thou mayest freely eat: but of the tree of the knowledge of good
and evil, thou shalt not eat of it; for in the day that thou eatest
thereof thou shalt surely die" (Gen 2:16,17). Which commandment
then given to Adam did contain in it a forbidding to do any of
those things that was and is accounted evil, although at that time
it did not appear so plainly, in so many particular heads, as it
did when it was again delivered on Mount Sinai; but yet the very
same. And that I shall prove thus--

God commanded Adam in Paradise to abstain from all evil against
the first covenant, and not from some sins only; but if God had
not commanded Adam to abstain from the sins spoken against in the
Ten Commandments, He had not commanded to abstain from all, but
from some; therefore it must needs be that He then commanded to
abstain from all sins forbidden in the law given on Mount Sinai. Now
that God commanded to abstain from all evil or sin against any of
the Ten Commandments, when He gave Adam the command in the garden,
it is evident that He did punish the sins that were committed
against those commands that were then delivered on Mount Sinai,
before they were delivered on Mount Sinai, which will appear as
followeth--

The First, Second, and Third Commandments were broken by Pharaoh and
his men; for they had false gods which the Lord executed judgment
against (Exo 12:12); and blasphemed their true God (Exo 5:2) which
escaped not punishment (Exo 7:17-25). For their gods could neither
deliver themselves nor their people from the hand of God; but
"in the thing wherein they dealt proudly, He was above them" (Exo
18:11).

Again; some judge that the Lord punished the sin against the
Second Commandment, which Jacob was in some measure guilty of in
not purging his house from false gods, with the defiling of his
daughter Dinah (Gen 34:2).

Again; we find that Abimelech thought the sin against the Third
Commandment so great, that he required no other security of Abraham
against the fear of mischief that might be done to him by Abraham,
his son, and his son's son, but only Abraham's oath (Gen 21:23).
The like we see between Abimelech and Isaac (Gen 31:53). The like
we find in Moses and the Israelites, who durst not leave the bones
of Joseph in Egypt, because of the oath of the Lord, whose name,
by so doing, would have been abused (Exo 13:19).

And we find the Lord rebuking His people for the breach of the
Fourth Commandment (Exo 16:27-29).

And for the breach of the Fifth, the curse came upon Ham (Gen
9:25-27). And Ishmael dishonouring his father in mocking Isaac
was cast out, as we read (Gen 21:9,10). The sons-in-law of Lot for
slighting their father perish in the overthrow of Sodom (Gen 19:14).

The Sixth Commandment was broken by Cain, and so dreadful a curse
and punishment came upon him that it made him cry out, "My punishment
is greater than I can bear" (Gen 4:13).

Again; when Esau threatened to slay his brother, Rebecca sent him
away, saying, "Why should I be deprived also of you both in one
day?" hinting unto us, that she knew murder was to be punished
with death (Gen 27:45) which the Lord Himself declared likewise to
Noah (Gen 9:6).3 Again; a notable example of the Lord's justice in
punishing murder we see in the Egyptians and Pharaoh, who drowned
the Israelites' children in the river (Exo 1:22); and they themselves
were drowned in the sea (Exo 14:27).

The sin against the Seventh Commandment was punished in the Sodomites,
etc., with the utter destruction of their city and themselves (Gen
19:24,25). Yea, they suffer "the vengeance of eternal fire" (Jude
7). Also the male Shechemites, for the sin committed by Hamor's
son, were all put to the sword (Gen 34:25,26).

Our first parents sinned against the Eighth Commandment in taking
the forbidden fruit, and so brought the curse on themselves and
their posterity (Gen 3:16). Again; the punishment due to the breach
of this Commandment was by Jacob accounted death (Gen 31:30,32).
And also by Jacob's sons (Gen 44:9,10).

Cain sinning against the Ninth Commandment as in Genesis 4:9, was
therefore cursed as to the earth (Verse 11). And Abraham, though
the friend of God, was blamed for false-witness by Pharaoh, and
sent out of Egypt (Gen 12:18-20) and both he and Sarah reproved by
Abimelech (Gen 20:9,10,16).

Pharaoh sinned against the Tenth Commandment, and was therefore
plagued with great plagues (Gen 12:15,17). Abimelech coveted
Abraham's wife, and the Lord threatened death to him and his, except
he restored her again; yea, though he had not come near her, yet
for coveting and taking her the Lord fast closed up the wombs of
his house (Gen 20:3,18).

[Further Arguments.] I could have spoken more fully to this, but
that I would not be too tedious, but speak what I have to say with
as much brevity as I can. But before I pass it, I will besides
this give you an argument or two more for the further clearing of
this, that the substance of the law delivered on Mount Sinai was,
before that, delivered by the Lord to man in the garden. As, first,
"death reigned over them that had not sinned after the similitude
of Adam's transgression"--that is, though they did not take the
forbidden fruit as Adam did; but had the transgression been no
other, or had their sin been laid to the charge of none but those
that did eat of that fruit, then those that were born to Adam
after he was shut out of the garden had not had sin, in that they
did not actually eat of that fruit, and so had not been slaves to
death; but, in that death did reign from Adam to Moses, of from
the time of his transgression against the first giving of the law,
till the time the law was given on Mount Sinai, it is evident that
the substance of the Ten Commandments was given to Adam and his
posterity under that command, "Eat not of the tree that is in the
midst of the garden." But yet, if any shall say that it was because
of the sin of their father that death reigned over them, to that I
shall answer, that although original sin be laid to the charge of
his posterity, yet it is also for their sins that they actually
committed that they were plagued. And again, saith the Apostle,
"For where no law is, there is no transgression" (Rom 4:15). For
"sin is not imputed when there is no law; nevertheless death reigned
from Adam to Moses." saith he (Rom 5:13,14). But if there had been
no law, then there had been no transgression, and so no death to
follow after as the wages thereof; for death is the wages of sin
(Rom 6:23) and sin is the breach of the law; an actual breach in
our particular persons, as well as an actual breach in
our public person (1 John 3:4). 4

Again; there are no other sins than those against that law given
on Sinai, for the which those sins before mentioned were punished;
therefore the law given before by the Lord to Adam and his posterity
is the same with that afterwards given on Mount Sinai. Again; the
conditions of that on Sinai and of that in the garden are all one;
the one saying, "Do this and live," the other saying the same. Also
judgment denounced against men in both kinds alike; therefore this
law it appeareth to be the very same that was given on Mount Sinai.

Again; the Apostle speaketh but of two covenants--to wit, grace
and works--under which two covenants all are; some under one, and
some under the other. Now this to Adam is one, therefore that on
Sinai is one, and all one with this; and that this is a truth, I
say, I know, because the sins against that on Sinai were punished
by God for the breech thereof before it was given there; so it doth
plainly appear to be a truth; for it would be unrighteous with God
for to punish for that law that was not broken; therefore it was
all one with that on Sinai.

Now the law given on Sinai was for the more clear discovery of
those sins that were before committed against it; for though the
very substance of the Ten Commandments were given in the garden
before they were received from Sinai, yet they lay so darkly in
the heart of man, that his sins were not so clearly discovered as
afterwards they were; therefore, saith the Apostle, the law was
added (Gal 3:19). Or, more plainly, given on Sinai, on tables of
stone, "that the offence might abound,"--that is, that it might
the more clearly be made manifest and appear (Rom 5:20).

Again; we have a notable resemblance of this at Sinai, even in giving
the law; for, first, the law was given twice on Sinai, to signify
that indeed the substance of it was given before. And, secondly,
the first tables that were given on Sinai were broken at the foot
of the mount, and the others were preserved whole, to signify that
though it was the true law that was given before, with that given
on Sinai, yet it was not so easy to be read and to be taken notice
of, in that the stones were not whole, but broken, and so the law
written thereon somewhat defaced and disfigured.

[Object.] But if any object and say, though the sins against the
one be the sins against the other, and so in that they do agree,
yet it doth not appear that the same is therefore the same Covenant
of Works with the other.

Answ. That which was given to Adam in Paradise you will grant was
the Covenant of Works; for it runs thus: Do this and live; do it
not and die; nay, "Thou shalt surely die." Now there is but one
Covenant of Works. If therefore I prove that that which was delivered
on Mount Sinai is the Covenant of Works, then all will be put out
of doubt. Now that this is so it is evident--

1. Consider the two covenants are thus called in Scripture, the
one the administration of death, and the other the administration
of life; the one the Covenant of Works, the other of grace; but
that delivered on Sinai is called the ministration of death; that,
therefore, is the Covenant of Works. "But if," saith he, "the
ministration of death, written and engraven on stones was glorious,"
(2 Cor 3:7).

2. The Apostle, writing to the Galatians, doth labour to beat
them off from trusting in the Covenant of Works; but when he comes
to give a discovery of that law or covenant--he labouring to take
them off from trusting in it--he doth plainly tell them it is that
which was given on Sinai (Gal 4:24,25). Therefore that which was
delivered in two tables of stone on Mount Sinai, is the very same
thing that was given before to Adam in Paradise, they running both
alike; that in the garden saying, Do this and live; but in the day
thou eatest thereof--or dost not do this--thou shalt surely die.

And so is this on Sinai, as is evident when he saith, "the man
which doeth those things shall live by them" (Rom 10:5). And in
case they break them, even any of them, it saith, "Cursed is every
one that continueth not in all things which are written in the
(whole) book of the law to do them" (Gal 3:10). Now this being thus
cleared, I shall proceed.

[WHAT IT IS TO BE UNDER THE COVENANT OF WORKS.]

SECOND. A second thing to be spoken to is this: to show what it is
to be under the law as it is a Covenant of Works; to which I shall
speak, and that thus--

To be under the law as it is a Covenant of Works, is to be bound,
upon pain of eternal damnation, to fulfill, and that completely
and continually, every particular point of the Ten Commandments, by
doing them--Do this, and then thou shalt live; otherwise, "cursed
is every one that continueth not in all," in every particular thing
or "things which are written in the book for the law to do them"
(Gal 3:10). That man that is under the first covenant stands thus,
and only thus, as he is under that covenant, or law. Poor souls,
through ignorance of the nature of that Covenant of Works, the law
that they are under, they do not think their state to be half so
bad as it is; when, alas! there is none in the world in such a sad
condition again besides themselves; for, indeed, they do not understand
these things. He that is under the law, as it is a Covenant of
Works, is like the man that is bound by the law of his king, upon
pain of banishment, or of being hanged, drawn, and quartered, not
to transgress any of the commandments of the king; so here, they
that are under the Covenant of Works, they are bound, upon pain of
eternal banishment and condemnation, to keep within the compass of
the law of the God of Heaven. The Covenant of Works may, in this
case, be compared to the laws of the Medes and Persians, which being
once made, cannot be altered. Daniel 6:8. You find that when there
was a law made and given forth that none should ask a petition of
any, God or man, but of the king only; this law being established
by the king (verse 9). Daniel breaking of it, let all do whatever
they can, Daniel must go into the lions' den (verse 16). So here,
I say, there being a law given, and sealed with the Truth and the
Word of God,--how that "the soul that sinneth, it shall die" (Eze
18:4). Whosoever doth abide under this covenant, and dieth under
the same, they must and shall go into the lion's den; yea, worse
than that, for they shall be thrown into Hell, to the very devils.

But to speak in a few particulars for thy better understanding
herein, know,

First. That the Law of God, or Covenant of Works, doth not contain
itself in one particular branch of the law, but doth extend itself
into many, even into all the Ten Commandments, and those ten into
very many more, as might be showed; so that the danger doth not
lie in the breaking of one or two of these ten only, but it doth
lie even in the transgression of any one of them. As you know, if
a king should give forth ten particular commands to be obeyed by
his subjects upon pain of death; now if any man doth transgress
against any one of these ten, he doth commit treason, as if he had
broke them all, and lieth liable to have the sentence of the law
as certainly passed on him as if he had broken every particular of
them.

Second. Again; you know that the laws being given forth by the
king, which if a man keep and obey for a long time, yet if at the
last he slips and breaks those laws, he is presently apprehended,
and condemned by that law. These things are clear as touching the
Law of God, as it is a Covenant of Works. If a man doth fulfill nine
of the Commandments, and yet breaketh but one, that being broken
will as surely destroy him and shut him out from the joys of Heaven
as if he had actually transgressed against them all; for indeed,
in effect, so he hath. There is a notable Scripture for this in
the Epistle of James, Second Chapter, at the tenth verse, that runs
thus:--"For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in
one point, he is guilty of all,"--that is, he hath in effect broken
them all, and shall have the voice of them all cry out against him.
And it must needs be so, saith James, because "He that said," or
that law which said, "Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill.
Now, if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become
a transgressor of the law" (Verse 11). As thus; it may be thou didst
never make to thyself a god of stone or wood, or at least not to
worship them so greatly and so openly as the heathen do, yet if
thou hast stolen, born false witness, or lusted after a woman in
thy heart (Matt 5:28) thou hast transgressed the law, and must for
certain, living and dying under that covenant, perish for ever by
the law; for the law hath resolved on that before-hand, saying,
"Cursed is every one that continueth not in ALL things"; mark,
I pray you, "in all things"; that is the Word, and that seals the
doctrine.

Third. Again; though a man doth not covet, steal, murder, worship
gods of wood and stone, etc., yet if he do take the Lord's name in
vain, he is for ever gone, living and dying under that covenant.
"Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain"; there
is the command. But how if we do? Then he saith, "the LORD will not
hold him guiltless that taketh His name in vain." No; though thou
live as holy as ever thou canst, and walk as circumspectly as ever
any did, yet if thou dost take the Lord's name in vain, thou art
gone by that covenant: "For I will not," mark "I will not," let
him be in never so much danger, "I will not hold him guiltless that
taketh My name in vain" (Exo 20:7). And so likewise for any other
of the ten, do but break them, and thy state is irrecoverable, if
thou live and die under that covenant.

Fourth. Though thou shouldest fulfill this covenant, or law, even
all of it, for a long time, ten, twenty, forty, fifty, or threescore
years, yet if thou do chance to slip and break one of them but once
before thou die, thou art also gone and lost by that covenant; for
mark, "Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things," that
continueth not in ALL things, mark that, "which are written in the
book of the law to do them." But if a man doth keep all the Law of
God his whole lifetime, and only sin one time before he dies, that
one sin is a breach of the law, and he hath not continued in doing
the things contained therein. For, so to continue, according to the
sense of this Scripture, is to hold on without any failing, either
in thought, word, or deed; therefore, I say, though a man doth walk
up to the law all his lifetime, but only at the very last sin one
time before he die, he is sure to perish for ever, dying under that
covenant. For, my friends, you must understand that the Law of God
is "yea," as well as the Gospel; and as they that are under the
Covenant of Grace shall surely be saved by it, so, even so, they that
are under the Covenant of Works and the law, they shall surely be
damned by it, if continuing there. This is the Covenant of Works
and the nature of it--namely, not to abate anything, no, not a mite,
to him that lives and dies under it: "I tell thee," saith Christ,
"thou shalt not depart thence," that is, from under the curse,
"till thou hast paid the very last mite" (Luke 12:59).

Fifth. Again; you must consider that this law doth not only condemn
words and actions, as I said before, but it hath authority to
condemn the most secret thoughts of the heart, being evil; so that
if thou do not speak any word that is evil, as swearing, lying,
jesting, dissembling, or any other word that tendeth to, or
savoureth of sin, yet if there should chance to pass but one vain
thought through thy heart but once in all thy lifetime, the law
taketh hold of it, accuseth, and also will condemn thee for it. You
may see one instance for all in (Matt 5:27,28) where Christ saith,
that though a man doth not lie with a woman carnally, yet if he doth
but look on her, and in his heart lust after her, he is counted by
the law, being rightly expounded, such an one that hath committed
the sin, and thereby hath laid himself under the condemnation of
the law. And so likewise of all the rest of the commands; if there
be any thought that is evil do but pass through thy heart, whether
it be against God or against man in the least measure, though
possibly not discerned of thee, or by thee, yet the law takes hold
of thee therefore, and doth by its authority, both cast, condemn,
and execute thee for thy so doing. "The thought of foolishness is
sin" (Prov 24:9).

Sixth. Again; the law is of that nature and severity, that it
doth not only inquire into the generality of thy life as touching
several things, whether thou art upright there or no; but the law
doth also follow thee into all thy holy duties, and watcheth over
thee there, to see whether thou dost do all things aright there--that
is to say, whether when thou dost pray thy heart hath no wandering
thoughts in it; whether thou do every holy duty thou doest perfectly
without the least mixture of sin; and if it do find thee to slip,
or in the least measure to fail in any holy duty that thou dost
perform, the law taketh hold on that, and findeth fault with that,
so as to render all the holy duties that ever thou didst unavailable
because of that. I say, if, when thou art a hearing, there is but
one vain thought, or in praying, but one vain thought, or in any
other thing whatsoever, let it be civil or spiritual, one vain
thought once in all thy lifetime will cause the law to take such
hold on it, that for that one thing it doth even set open all the
floodgates of God's wrath against thee, and irrecoverably by that
covenant it doth bring eternal vengeance upon thee; so that, I say,
look which ways thou wilt, and fail wherein thou wilt, and do it as
seldom as ever thou canst, either in civil or spiritual things, as
aforesaid--that is, either in the service of God, or in thy employments
in the world, as thy trade or calling, either in buying or selling
any way, in anything whatsoever; I say, if in any particular it
find thee tardy, or in the least measure guilty, it calleth thee
an offender, it accuseth thee to God, it puts a stop to all the
promises thereof that are joined to the law, and leaves thee there
as a cursed transgressor against God, and a destroyer of thy own soul. 5

Here I would have thee, by the way, for to take notice, that it is
not my intent at this time to enlarge on the several commands in
particular--for that would be very tedious both for me to write
and thee to read; only thus much I would have thee to do at the
reading hereof--make a pause, and sit still one quarter of an hour,
and muse a little in thy mind thus with thyself, and say, Did I
ever break the law; yea or no? Had I ever, in all my lifetime, one
sinful thought passed through my heart since I was born; yea or
no? And if thou findest thyself guilty, as I am sure thou canst
not otherwise choose but do, unless thou shut thy eyes against thy
every day's practice, then, I say, conclude thyself guilty of the
breach of the first covenant. And when that this is done, be sure,
in the next place, thou do not straightway forget it and put it
out of thy mind, that thou art condemned by the same covenant; and
then do not content thyself until thou do find that God hath sent
thee a pardon from Heaven through the merits of our Lord Jesus
Christ, the mediator of the second covenant. And if God shall but
give thee a heart to take this my counsel, I do make no question
but these words spoken by me, will prove an instrument for the
directing of thy heart to the right remedy for the salvation of
thy soul.

Thus much now touching the law, and the severity of it upon the person
that is found under it, having offended or broken any particular
of it, either in thought, word, or action; and now, before I do
proceed to the next thing, I shall answer four objections that do
lie in my way, and also, such as do stumble most part of the world.

[Four Objections.]

Object. First. But you will say, Methinks you speak very harsh;
it is enough to daunt a body. Set the case, therefore, that a man,
after he hath sinned and broken the law, repenteth of his wickedness
and promiseth to do so no more, will not God have mercy then, and
save a poor sinner then?

Answ. I told you before, that the covenant, once broken, will
execute upon the offender that which it doth threaten to lay upon
him; and as for your supposing that your repenting and promising to
do so no more may help well, and put you in a condition to attain
the mercy of God by the law, these thoughts do flow from gross
ignorance both of the nature of sin, and also of the nature of the
justice of God. And if I were to give you a description of one in
a lost condition for the present, I would brand him out with such
a mark of ignorance as this is.

Answ. 2. [The first answer is expounded by the second]. The law,
as it is a Covenant of Works, doth not allow of any repentance unto
life to those that live and die under it; for the law being once
broken by thee, never speaks good unto thee, neither doth God at
all regard thee, if thou be under that covenant, notwithstanding
all thy repenting and also promises to do so no more. No, saith
the law, thou hast sinned, therefore I must curse thee; for it is
My nature to curse, even, and nothing else but curse, every one
that doth in any point transgress against Me (Gal 3:10). They brake
My covenant "and I regarded them not, saith the Lord" (Heb 8:9).
Let them cry, I will not regard them; let them repent, I will not
regard them; they have broken My covenant, and done that in which
I delighted not; therefore, by that covenant I do curse, and not
bless; damn, and not save; frown, and not smile; reject, and not
embrace; charge sin and not forgive it. They brake My covenant
"and I regarded them not"; so that I say, if thou break the law,
the first covenant, and thou being found there, God looking on
thee through that, He hath no regard on thee, no pity for thee, no
delight in thee.

Object. Second. But hath not the law promises as well as threatenings?
saying, "The man which doeth these things shall live," mark, he
shall live, "by them," or in them (Rom 10:5; Gal 3:12).

Answ. 1. To break the Commandments is not to keep or fulfill the
same; but thou hast broken them, therefore the promise doth not
belong to thee by that covenant. 2. The promises that are of the
law are conditional, and so not performed unless there be a full
and continual obedience to every particular of it, and that without
the least sin. "Do this"--mark, do this--and afterwards thou shalt
live; but if thou break one point of it once in all thy life, thou
hast not done the law; therefore the promises following the law
do not belong unto thee if one sin hath been committed by thee. As
thus, I will give you a plain instance--"Set the case, there be a
law made by the king, that if any man speak a word against him he
must be put to death, and this must not be revoked, but must for
certain be executed on the offender; though there be a promise made
to them that do not speak a word against him, that they should have
great love from him; yet this promise is nothing to the offender;
he is like to have no share in it, or to be ever the better for it;
but contrariwise, the law that he hath offended must be executed
on him; for his sin shutteth him out from a share of, or in, the
promises." So it is here, there is a promise made indeed, but to
whom? Why, it is to none but those that live without sinning against
the law; but if thou, I say, sin one time against it in all thy
lifetime, thou art gone, and not one promise belongs to thee if
thou continue under this covenant. Methinks the prisoners at the
bar, having offended the law, and the charge of a just judge towards
them, do much hold forth the law, as it is a Covenant of Works,
and how it deals with them that are under it. The prisoner having
offended, cries out for mercy; Good, my lord, mercy, saith he,
pray, my lord, pity me. The judge saith, What canst thou say for
thyself that sentence of death should not be passed upon thee?
Why, nothing but this, I pray my lord be merciful. But he answers
again, Friend, the law must take place, the law must not be broken.
The prisoner saith, Good, my lord, spare me, and I will never do
so any more. The judge, notwithstanding the man's outcries and sad
condition, must, according to the tenor of the law, pass judgment
upon him, and the sentence of condemnation must be read to the
prisoner, though it makes him fall down dead to hear it, if he
executes the law as he ought to do. And just thus it is concerning
the Law of God.

Object. Third. Ay, but sometimes, for all your haste, the judge doth
also give some pardons, and forgives some offenders, notwithstanding
their offences, though he be a judge.

Answ. It is not because the law is merciful, but because there is
manifested the love of the judge, not the love of the law. I beseech
you to mark this distinction; for if a man that hath deserved
death by the law be, notwithstanding this, forgiven his offence,
it is not because the law saith, "spare him"; but it is the love
of the judge or chief magistrate that doth set the man free from
the condemnation of the law. But mark; here the law of men and
the Law of God do differ; the law of man is not so irrevocable;
but if the Supreme please he may sometimes grant a pardon without
satisfaction given for the offence; but the Law of God is of this
nature, that if a man be found under it, and a transgressor, or
one that hath transgressed against it, before that prisoner can be
released there must be a full and complete satisfaction given to
it, either by the man's own life or by the blood of some other man;
for "without shedding of blood is no remission" (Heb 9:22); that
is, there is no deliverance from under the curse of the Law of God;
and therefore, however the law of man may be made of none effect
sometimes by showing mercy without giving of a full satisfaction,
yet the Law of God cannot be so contented, nor at the least give
way, that the person offending that should escape the curse and not
be damned, except some one do give a full and complete satisfaction
to it for him, and bring the prisoner into another covenant--to
wit, the Covenant of Grace, which is more easy, and soul-refreshing,
and sin-pardoning.

I say, therefore, you must understand that if there be a law made
that reaches the life, to take it away for the offence given by
the offender against it, then it is clear that if the man be spared
and saved, it is not the law that doth give the man this advantage,
but it is the mere mercy of the king, either because he hath a ransom
or satisfaction some other way, or being provoked thereto out of
his own love to the person whom he saveth. Now, thou also having
transgressed and broken the Law of God, if the law be not executed
upon thee, it is not because the law is merciful, or can pass by
the least offence done by thee, but thy deliverance comes another
way; therefore, I say, however it be by the laws of men where they
be corrupted and perverted, yet the Law of God is of that nature,
that if it hath not thy own blood or the blood of some other
man--for it calls for no less, for to ransom thee from the curse
of it, being due to thee for thy transgression, and to satisfy the
cries, the doleful cries, thereof, and ever for to present thee
pure and spotless before God, notwithstanding this fiery law--thou
art gone if thou hadst a thousand souls; for "without shedding
of blood there is no remission" (Heb 9:22); no forgiveness of the
least sin against the law.

Object. Fourth. But, you will say, "I do not only repent me of
my former life, and also promise to do so no more, but now I do
labour to be righteous, and to live a holy life; and now, instead
of being a breaker of the law, I do labour to fulfill the same.
What say you to that?"

Answ. Set the case, thou couldst walk like an angel of God; set
the case, thou couldst fulfill the whole law, and live from this
day to thy life's end without sinning in thought, word, or deed,
which is impossible; but, I say, set the case it should be so, why,
thy state is as bad, if thou be under the first covenant, as ever
it was. For, first, I know thou darest not say but thou hast at
one time or other sinned; and if so, then the law hath condemned
thee; and if so, then I am sure that thou, with all thy actions
and works of righteousness, canst not remove the dreadful and
irresistible curse that is already laid upon thee by that law which
thou art under, and which thou hast sinned against; though thou
livest the holiest life that any man can live in this world, being
under the law of works, and so not under the Covenant of Grace,
thou must be cut off without remedy; for thou hast sinned, though
afterwards thou live never so well.

The reasons for this that hath been spoken are these--

First, The nature of God's justice calls for it--that is, it calls
for irrecoverable ruin on them that transgress against this law;
for justice gave it, and justice looks to have it completely and
continually obeyed, or else justice is resolved to take place, and
execute its office, which is to punish the transgressor against it.
You must understand that the justice of God is as unchangeable as
His love; His justice cannot change its nature; justice it is, if
it be pleased; and justice it is, if it be displeased. The justice
of God in this case may be compared to fire; there is a great fire
made in some place; if thou do keep out of it, it is fire; if thou
do fall into it, thou wilt find it fire; and therefore the Apostle
useth this as an argument to stir up the Hebrews to stick close
to Jesus Christ, lest they fall under the justice of God by these
words, "For our God is a consuming fire" (Heb 12:29); into which,
if thou fall, it is not for thee to get out again, as it is with
some that fall into a material fire; no, but he that falls into
this, he must lie there for ever; as it is clear where he saith,
"Who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings, and with
devouring fire?" (Isa 33:14). For justice once offended knoweth
not how to show any pity or compassion to the offender, but runs on
him like a lion, takes him by the throat, throws him into prison,
and there he is sure to lie, and that to all eternity, unless
infinite satisfaction be given to it, which is impossible to be
given by any of us the sons of Adam.

Secondly, The faithfulness of God calls for irrecoverable ruin to
be poured out on those that shall live and die under this covenant.
If thou, having sinned but one sin against this covenant, and shouldst
afterwards escape damning, God must be unfaithful to Himself and
to His Word, which both agree as one. First, he would be unfaithful
to Himself; to Himself, that is, to His justice, holiness,
righteousness, wisdom, and power, if He should offer to stop the
running out of His justice for the damning of them that have offended
it. And secondly, He would be unfaithful to His Word, His written
Word, and disown, deny, and break that, of which He hath said, "It
is easier for Heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law
to fail," or be made of none effect (Luke 16:17). Now, if He should
not, according to His certain declarations therein, take vengeance
on those that fall and die within the threat and sad curses denounced,
in that His Word could not be fulfilled.

Thirdly, Because otherwise he would disown the sayings of His
Prophets, and gratify the sayings of His enemies; His Prophets say
He will take vengeance; His enemies say He will not; His Prophets
say He will remember their iniquities, and recompense them into
their bosom; but His enemies say they should do well, and they
shall have peace, though they walk after the imaginations of their
own hearts, and be not so strict as the Word commands, and do not
as it saith (Deu 29:19,20). But let me tell thee, hadst thou a
thousand souls, and each of them was worth a thousand worlds, God
would set them all on a light by fire, if they fall within the
condemnings of His Word, and thou die without a Jesus, even the
right Jesus; "for the Scriptures cannot be broken." What! dost thou
think that God, Christ, Prophets, and Scriptures, will all lie for
thee? and falsify their words for thee? It will be but ill venturing
thy soul upon that.

And the reasons for it are these:--First, Because God is God; and
secondly, Because man is man.

First, Because God is perfectly just and eternally just, perfectly holy
and eternally holy, perfectly faithful and eternally faithful; that
is, without any variableness or shadow of turning, but perfectly
continueth the same, and cannot as well cease to be God as to alter
or change the nature of His Godhead. As He is thus the perfection
of all perfections, He gave out His Law to be obeyed; but if
any offend it, then they fall into the hands of this His eternal
justice, and so must drink of His irrevocable wrath, which is the
execution of the same justice. I say, this being thus, the law being
broken, justice takes place, and so faithfulness followeth to see
that execution be done, and also to testify that He is true, and
doth denounce His unspeakable, insupportable, and unchangeable
vengeance on the party offending.

Secondly, Because thou art not as infinite as God, but a poor created
weed, that is here today and gone tomorrow, and not able to answer
God in His essence, being, and attributes; thou art bound to fall
under Him, for thy soul or body can do nothing that is infinite
in such a way as to satisfy this God, which is an infinite God in
all His attributes.

[Misery of man by this law.]

But to declare unto you the misery of man by this law to purpose,
I do beseech you to take notice of these following particulars,
besides what has been already spoken:--First, I shall show the danger
of them by reason of the law, as they come from Adam; Second, as
they are in their own persons particularly under it.

[First, The danger of them by reason of the law, as they come from
Adam.]

1. As they come from Adam, they are in a sad condition, because he
left them a broken covenant. Or take it thus: because they, while
they were in him, did with him break that covenant. O! this was the
treasure that Adam left to his posterity; it was a broken covenant,
insomuch that death reigned over all his children, and doth still
to this day, as they come from him, both natural and eternal death
(Rom 5). It may be, drunkard, swearer, liar, thief, thou dost not
think of this.

2. He did not only leave them a broken covenant, but also made
them himself sinners against it. He [Adam] made them sinners--"By
one man's disobedience many were made sinners" (Rom 5:19). And this
is worse than the first.

3. Not only so, but he did deprive them of their strength, by which
at first they were enabled to stand, and left them no more than
dead men. O helpless state! O how beggarly and miserable are the
sons of Adam!

4. Not only so, but also before he left them he was the conduit
pipe through which the devil did convey off his poisoned spawn
and venom nature into the hearts of Adam's sons and daughters, by
which they are at this day so strongly and so violently carried
away, that they fly as fast to Hell, and the devil, by reason of
sin, as chaff before a mighty wind.

5. In a word, Adam led them out of their paradise, that is one
more; and put out their eyes, that is another; and left them to the
leading of the devil. O sad! Canst thou hear this, and not have thy
ears to tingle and burn on thy head? Canst thou read this, and not
feel thy conscience begin to throb and dag? If so, surely it is
because thou art either possessed with the devil, or besides thyself.

[Second.] But I pass this, and come to the second thing, which is,
the cause of their being in a sad condition, which is by reason of
their being in their particular persons under it.

1. Therefore, they that are under the law, they are in a sad
condition, because they are under that which is more ready, through
our infirmity, to curse than to bless; they are under that called
the ministration of condemnation, that is, they are under that
dispensation, or administration, whose proper work is to curse and
condemn, and nothing else (2 Cor 3).

2. Their condition is sad who are under the law, because they are
not only under that ministration that doth condemn, but also that
which doth wait an opportunity to condemn; the law doth not wait
that it might be gracious, but it doth wait to curse and condemn;
it came on purpose to discover sin, "The law entered," saith
the Apostle, "that the offence might abound" (Rom 5:20) or appear
indeed to be that which God doth hate, and also to curse for that
which hath been committed; as he saith, "Cursed is every one that
continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the
law to do them" (Gal 3:10).

3. They are in a sad condition, because that administration they
are under that are under the law doth always find fault with the
sinner's obedience as well as his disobedience, if it be not done
in a right spirit, which they that are under that covenant cannot
do, by reason of their being destitute of faith; therefore, I say,
it doth control them, saying, "This was not well done, this was
done by the halves, this was not done freely, and that was not
done perfectly, and out of love to God." And hence it is that some
men, notwithstanding they labour to live as holy as ever they can
according to the law, yet they do not live a peaceable life, but
are full of condemnings, full of guilt and torment of conscience,
finding themselves to fail here, and to fall short there, omitting
this good which the law commands, and doing that evil which the law
forbids, but never giveth them one good word for all their pains.

4. They that are under the law are in a sad condition, because they
are under that administration that will never be contented with
what is done by the sinner. If thou be under this covenant, work
as hard as thou canst, the law will never say, "Well done"; never
say, "My good servant"; no; but always it will be driving thee
faster, hastening of thee harder, giving thee fresh commands, which
thou must do, and upon pain of damnation not to be left undone.
Nay, it is such a master that will curse thee, not only for thy
sins, but also because thy good works were not so well done as they
ought to be.

5. They that are under this covenant or law, their state is very
sad, because this law doth command impossible things of him that
is under it; and yet doth but right in it, seeing man at the first
had in Adam strength to stand, if he would have used it, and the
law was given them, as I said before, when man was in his full
strength; and therefore no inequality if it commands the same still,
seeing God that gave thee strength did not take it away. I will
give you a similitude for the clearing of it. Set the case that I
give to my servant ten pounds, with this charge, Lay it out for my
best advantage, that I may have my own again with profit; now if
my servant, contrary to my command, goeth and spends my money in a
disobedient way, is it any inequality in me to demand of my servant
what I gave him at first? Nay, and though he have nothing to pay, I
may lawfully cast him into prison, and keep him there until I have
satisfaction. So here; the law was delivered to man at the first
when he was in a possibility to have fulfilled it; now, then, though
man have lost his strength, yet God is just in commanding the same
work to be done. Ay, and if they do not do the same things, I say,
that are impossible for them to do, it is just with God to damn
them, seeing it was they themselves that brought themselves into
this condition; therefore, saith the Apostle, "What things soever
the law (or commands) saith, it saith to them who are under the
law; that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become
guilty before God" (Rom 3:19). And this is thy sad condition that
art under the law (Gal 3:10).

But if any should object, and say, But the law doth not command
impossible things of natural man,--

I should answer in this case as the Apostle did in another very
much like unto it, saying, "Understanding neither what they say,
nor whereof they affirm." For doth not the law command thee to love
the Lord thy God with all thy soul, with all they strength, with
all thy might, etc., and can the natural man do this? How can those
that are accustomed to do evil, do that which is commanded in this
particular? "Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his
spots?" (Jer 12:23).

Doth the law command thee to do good, and nothing but good, and that
with all thy soul, heart, and delight? which the law as a Covenant
of Works calleth for; and canst thou, being carnal, do that? But
there is no man that hath understanding, if he should hear thee
say so, but would say that thou wast either bewitched or stark mad.

6. They that are under the law are in a sad condition, because that
though they follow the law, or Covenant of Works; I say, though they
follow it, it will not lead them to Heaven; no, but contrariwise,
it will lead them under the curse. It is not possible, saith Paul,
that any should be justified by the law, or by our following of it;
for by that "is the knowledge of sin," and by it we are condemned
for the same, which is far from leading us to life, being the
ministration of death (2 Cor 3). And again; "Israel, which followeth
after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of
righteousness. Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but
by the law, and by the works thereof" (Rom 9:30-32).

7. They that are under the law are in a sad condition, because they
do not know whether ever they shall have any wages for their work
or no; they have no assurance of the pardon of their sins, neither
any hopes of eternal life; but poor hearts as they are, they work
for they do not know what, even like a poor horse that works hard
all day, and at night hath a dirty stable for his pains; so thou
mayest work hard all the days of thy life, and at the day of death,
instead of having a glorious rest in the Kingdom of Heaven, thou
mayest, nay, thou shalt, have for thy sins the damnation of thy
soul and body in Hell to all eternity; forasmuch, as I said before,
that the law, if thou sinnest, it doth not take notice of any good
work done by thee, but takes its advantage to destroy and cut off
thy soul for the sin thou hast committed.

8. They that are under the law are in a sad condition, because
they are under that administration; upon whose souls God doth not
smile, they dying there; for the administration that God doth smile
upon His children through, is the Covenant of Grace, they being in
Jesus Christ, the Lord of life and consolation; but contrariwise
to those that are under the law; for they have His frowns, His
rebukes, His threatenings, and with much severity they must be dealt
withal--"For they continued not in My covenant, and I regarded them
not, saith the Lord" (Heb 8:9).

9. They are in a sad condition, because they are out of the faith of
Christ; they that are under the law have not the faith of Christ
in them; for that dispensation which they are under is not the
administration of faith. The law is not of faith, saith the Apostle
(Gal 3:12).

10. Because they have not received the Spirit; for that is received
by the hearing of faith, and not by the law, nor the works thereof
(Gal 3:2).

11. In a word, if thou live and die under that covenant, Jesus
Christ will neither pray for thee, neither let thee have one drop
of His blood to wash away thy sins, neither shalt thou be so much
as one of the least in the Kingdom of Heaven; for all these privileges
come to souls under another covenant, as the Apostle saith--"For
such are not under the law, but under grace"--that is, such as have
a share in the benefits of Jesus Christ, or such as are brought from
under the first covenant into the second; or from under the law
into the grace of Christ's Gospel, without which Covenant of Grace,
and being found in that, there is no soul can have the least hope
of eternal life, no joy in the Holy Ghost, no share in the privileges
of saints, because they are tied up from them by the limits and
bonds of the Covenant of Works. For you must understand that these
two covenants have their several bounds and limitations, for the
ruling and keeping in subjection, or giving of freedom, to the
parties under the said covenants. Now they that are under the law
are within the compass and the jurisdiction of that, and are bound
to be in subjection to that; and living and dying under that, they
must stand and fall to that, as Paul saith, "To his own master he
standeth or falleth." The Covenant of Grace doth admit to those that
are under it also liberty and freedom, together with commanding of
subjection to the things contained in it, which I shall speak to
further hereafter. [For what purpose the Law was added and given.]

But now, that the former things may be further made to appear--that
is, what the sad condition of all them that are under the law is,
as I have shown you something of the nature of the law, so also shall
I show that the law was added and given for this purpose, that it
might be so with those that are out of the Covenant of Grace.

First, God did give the law that sin might abound, not that
it should take away sin in any, but to discover the sin which is
already begotten, or that may be hereafter begotten, by lust and
Satan (Rom 5:20). I say, this is one proper work of the law, to
make manifest sin; it is sent to find fault with the sinner, and it
doth also watch that it may do so, and it doth take all advantages
for the accomplishing of its work in them that give ear thereto, or
do not give ear, if it have the rule over them. I say, it is like
a man that is sent by his lord to see and pry into the labours
and works of other men, taking every advantage to discover their
infirmities and failings, and to chide them? yea, to throw them
out of the Lord's favour for the same.

Second. Another great end why the Lord did add or give the law, it
was that no man might have anything to lay to the charge of the
Lord for His condemning of them that do transgress against the same.
You know that if a man should be had before an officer or judge,
and there be condemned, and yet by no law, he that condemns him
might be very well reprehended or reproved for passing the judgment;
yea, the party himself might have better ground to plead for his
liberty than the other to plead for the condemning of him; but this
shall not be so in the judgment-day, but contrariwise; for then
every man shall be forced to lay his hand on his mouth, and hold
his tongue at the judgment of God when it is passed upon them;
therefore saith the Apostle, "What things soever the law saith, it
saith to them who are under the law"; that is, all the commands,
all the cursings and threatenings that are spoken by it, are spoken,
saith he, "that every mouth may be stopped"; mark, I beseech you,
"it saith," saith he, "that every mouth may be stopped, and all
the world may become guilty before God" (Rom 3:19). So that now,
in case any in the judgment-day should object against the judgment
of God, as those in the 25th of Matthew do, saying, Lord, when saw
we Thee thus and thus? and why dost Thou pass such a sad sentence
of condemnation upon us? surely this is injustice, and not equity:
now for the preventing of this the law was given; ay, and that it
might prevent thee to purpose, God gave it betimes, before either
thy first father had sinned, or thou wast born. So that again, if
there should be these objections offered against the proceedings
of the Lord in justice and judgment, saying, Lord, why am I thus
condemned, I did not know it was sin? Now against these two was
the law given and that betimes, so that both these are answered. If
the first come in and say, Why am I judged? why am I damned? then
will the law come in, even all the Ten Commandments, with every one
of their cries against thy soul; the First saying, He hath sinned
against Me, damn him; the Second saying also, He hath transgressed
against Me, damn him; the Third also saying the same, together with
the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth; even all
of them will discharge themselves against thy soul if thou die under
the first covenant, saying, He or they have transgressed against
us, damn them, damn them: and I tell thee also, that these ten great
guns, the Ten Commandments, will, with discharging themselves in
justice against thy soul, so rattle in thy conscience, that thou
wilt in spite of thy teeth be immediately put to silence, and have
thy mouth stopped. And let me tell thee further, that if thou shalt
appear before God to have the Ten Commandments discharge themselves
against thee, thou hadst better be tied to a tree, and have ten,
yea, ten thousand of the biggest pieces of ordnance in the world
to be shot off against thee; for these could go no further but only
to kill the body; but they, both body and soul, to be tormented in
Hell with the devil to all eternity.

Third, Again; if the second thing should be objected, saying, But
Lord, I did not think this had been sin, or the other had been sin,
for nobody told me so; then also will the giving of the law take
off that, saying, Nay, But I was given to thy father Adam before
he had sinned, or before thou wast born, and have ever since been
in thy soul to convince thee of thy sins, and to control thee for
doing the thing that was not right. Did not I secretly tell thee
at such a time, in such a place, when thou wast doing of such a
thing, with such an one, or when thou was all alone, that this was
a sin, and that God did forbid it, therefore if thou didst commit
it, God would be displeased with thee for it: and when thou was
thinking to do such a thing at such a time, did not I say, Forbear,
do not so? God will smite thee, and punish thee for it if thou dost
do it. And besides, God did so order it that you had me in your
houses, in your Bibles, and also you could speak and talk of me;
thus pleading the truth, thou shalt be forced to confess it is
so; nay, it shall be so in some sort with the very Gentiles and
barbarous people that fall far short of that light we have in these
parts of the world; for, saith the Apostle, "The Gentiles which have
not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these,
having not the law," that is, not written as we have, yet they "are
a law unto themselves: which show the works of the law written in
their hearts" (Rom 2:14,15). That is, they have the law of works
in them by nature, and therefore they shall be left without excuse;
for their own consciences shall stand up for the truth of this
where he saith, "Their conscience also bearing witness, and their
thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another." Ay,
but when? Why, "in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men
by Jesus Christ according to my Gospel" (Rom 2:15,16). So this, I
say, is another end for which the Lord did give the law--namely,
that God might pass a sentence in righteousness, without being
charged with any injustice by those that shall fall under it in
the judgment.

Fourth, A fourth end why the Lord did give the law it was, because
they that die out of Jesus Christ might not only have their mouths
stopped, but also that their persons "might become guilty before
God" (Rom 3:19). And indeed this will be the ground of silencing,
as I said before, they finding themselves guilty, their consciences
backing the truth of the judgment of God passed upon them, "they
shall become guilty"--that is, they shall be fit vessels for the
wrath of God to be poured out into, being filled with guilt by
reason of transgressions against the commandments; thus, therefore,
shall the parties under the first covenant be "fitted to destruction"
(Rom 9:22) even as wood or straw, being well dried, is fitted
for the fire; and the law was added and given, and speaks to this
very end, that sins might be shown, mouths might be stopped from
quarreling, and that "all the world," mark, "the world may become
guilty before God," and so be in justice for ever and ever overthrown
because of their sins.

And this will be so for these reasons--

1. Because God hath a time to magnify His justice and holiness,
as well as to show His forbearance and mercy. We read in Scripture
that His eyes are too pure to behold iniquity, and then we shall
find it true (Hab 1:13). We read in Scripture that He will magnify
the law, and make it honourable, and then He will do it indeed.
Now, because the Lord doth not strike so soon as He is provoked by
sin, therefore poor souls will not know nor regard the justice of
God, neither do they consider the time in which it must be advanced,
which will be when men drop under the wrath of God as fast as hail
in a mighty storm (2 Peter 3:9; Psa 50:21,22). Now, therefore, look
to it all you that count the long-suffering and forbearance of God
slackness; and because for the present He keepeth silence, therefore
to think that He is like unto yourselves. No, no; but know that
God hath His set time for every purpose of His, and in its time it
shall be advanced most marvelously, to the everlasting astonishment
and overthrow of that soul that shall be dealt withal by justice
and the law. O! how will God advance His justice! O! how will
God advance His holiness! First, by showing men that He in justice
cannot, will not regard them, because they have sinned; and,
secondly, in that His holiness will not give way for such unclean
wretches to abide in His sight, His eyes are so pure.

2. Because God will make it appear that He will be as good as His
Word to sinners. Sinners must not look to escape always, though they
may escape awhile, yet they shall not go far all adoe unpunished;
no, but they shall have their due to a farthing, when every
threatening and curse shall be accomplished and fulfilled on the
head of the transgressor. Friend, there is never an idle word that
thou speakest but God will account with thee for it; there is never
a lie thou tellest, but God will reckon with thee for it; nay, there
shall not pass so much as one passage in all thy lifetime but God,
the righteous God, will have it in the trial by His law, if thou
die under it, in the judgment-day.

[WHO THE ARE THAT ARE UNDER THE COVENANT OF WORKS.]

THIRD. But you will say--"But who are those that are thus under
the law?"

Answ. Those that are under the law may be branched out into three
ranks of men; either, first, such as are grossly profane, or such
as are more refined; which may be two ways, some in a lower sort,
and some in a more eminent way.

First, Then they are under the law as a Covenant of Works who are
open profane, and ungodly wretches, such as delight not only in
sin, but also make their boast of the same, and brag at the thoughts
of committing of it. Now, as for such as these are, there is a
Scripture in the First Epistle of Paul to Timothy Chapter 1, verses
9, 10, which is a notable one to this purpose, "The law," saith
he, "is not made for a righteous man," not as it is a Covenant of
Works, "but for the" unrighteous or "lawless and disobedient, for
the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers
of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers, for whoremongers,
for them that defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers,
for liars," look to it, liars, "for perjured persons, and," in a
word, "if there be any other thing that is not according to sound
doctrine." These are one sort of people that are under the law,
and so under the curse of the same, whose due is to drink up the
brimful cup of God's eternal vengeance, and therefore I beseech you
not to deceive yourselves; for "know ye not that the unrighteous
shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Neither fornicators, nor
idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves
with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers,
nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God" (1 Cor 6:9,10).
Poor souls, you think that you may have your sins, your lusts, and
pleasures, and yet you shall do pretty well, and be let to go free
in the judgment-day; but see what God saith of such in Deuteronomy
29:19, 20--which shall "bless himself in his heart, saying, I shall
have peace," I shall be saved, I shall do as well as others, in
the day when God shall judge the world by Jesus Christ; but, saith
God, I will not spare them, no, but My anger and My jealousy shall
smoke against them. How far? Even to the executing all the curses
that are written in the Law of God upon them. Nay, saith God, I
will be even with them, "for I will blot out their names from under
Heaven." And indeed it must of necessity be so, because such souls
are unbelievers, in their sins, and under the law, which cannot,
will not, show any mercy on them; for it is not the administration
of mercy and life, but the administration of death and destruction,
as you have it (2 Cor 3:7,9); and all those, every one of them,
that are open profane, and scandalous wretches are under it, and
have been so ever since they came into the world to this day; and
they will for certain live and die under the same dispensation,
and then be damned to all eternity, if they be not converted from
under that covenant into and under the Covenant of Grace, of which
I shall speak in its place; and yet for all this, how brag and crank
6 are our poor wantons and wicked ones in this day of forbearance!
as if God would never have a reckoning with them, as if there was
no law to condemn them, as if there was no hellfire to put them
into. But O how will they be deceived when they shall see Christ
sitting upon the judgment-seat, having laid aside his priestly and
prophetical office, and appearing only as a judge to the wicked?
when they shall see all the records of Heaven unfolded and laid
open; when they shall see each man his name in the Book of Life,
and in the book of the law; when they shall see God in His majesty,
Christ in His majesty, the saints in their dignity, but themselves
in their impurity. What will they say then? whither will they fly
then? where will they leave their glory? O sad state! (Isa 10:3).

Second. They are under the law also who do not only so break and
disobey the law, but follow after the law as hard as ever they
can, seeking justification thereby--that is, though a man should
abstain from the sins against the law, and labour to fulfill the
law, and give up himself to the law, yet if he look no further
than the law he is still under the law, and for all his obedience
to the law, the righteous Law of God, he shall be destroyed by that
law. Friend, you must not understand that none but profane persons
are under the law; no, but you must understand that a man may be
turned from a vain, loose, open, profane conversation and sinning
against the law, to a holy, righteous, religious life, and yet be
in the same state, under the same law, and as sure to be damned as
the other that are more profane and loose. And though you may say
this is very strange, yet I shall both say it and prove it to be
true. Read with understanding that Scripture in Romans 9:30-31,
where the Apostle, speaking of the very thing, saith, "But Israel,
which followed after the law of righteousness"; mark, that followed
after the law of righteousness; they notwithstanding their earnest
pursuit, or hunting after the law of righteousness, "hath not
attained to the law of righteousness." It signifies thus much to
us, that let a man be never so earnest, so fervent, so restless,
so serious, so ready, so apt and willing to follow the law and the
righteousness thereof, if he be under that covenant, he is gone,
he is lost, he is deprived of eternal life, because he is not under
the ministration of life if he die there. Read also that Scripture,
Galatians 3:10, which saith, "For as many as are of the works of
the law are under the curse"; mark, they that are of the works of
the law. Now, for to be of the works of the law, it is to be of the
works of the righteousness thereof--that is, to abstain from sins
against the law, and to do the commands thereof as near as ever
they can for their lives, or with all the might they have: and
therefore I beseech you to consider it, for men's being ignorant of
this is the cause why so many go on supposing they have a share in
Christ, because they are reformed, and abstain from the sins against
the law, who, when all comes to all, will be damned notwithstanding,
because they are not brought out from under the Covenant of Works,
and put under the Covenant of Grace.

Object. "But can you in very deed make these things manifestly
evident from the Word of God? Methinks to reason thus is very
strange, that a man should labour to walk up according to the Law
of God as much as ever he can, and yet that man notwithstanding
this, should be still under the curse. Pray clear it."

Answ. Truly this doth seem very strange, I do know full well, to
the natural man, to him that is yet in his unbelief, because he
goeth by beguiled reason; but for my part, I do know it is so, and
shall labour also to convince thee of the truth of the same.

1. Then, the law is thus strict and severe, that if a man do sin but
once against it, he, I say, is gone for ever by the law, living and
dying under that covenant. If you would be satisfied as touching the
truth of this, do but read Galatians 3:10, where it saith "Cursed
is every one," that is, not a man shall miss by that covenant, "that
continueth not in all," mark, in all "things which are written in
the book of the law to do them." (1.) Pray mark, here is a curse,
in the first place, if all things written in the book of the law be
not done, and that, continually too--that is, without any failing
or one slip, as I said before. Now there is never a one in the world
but before they did begin to yield obedience to the least command,
they in their own persons did sin against it by breaking of it.
The Apostle, methinks, is very notable for the clearing of this
in Romans 3:5. In the one he endeavours for to prove that all
had transgressed in the first Adam as he stood a common person,
representing both himself and us in his standing and falling.
"Wherefore," saith he, "as by one man sin entered into the world,
and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men," mark that; but
why? "for that all have sinned" (Rom 5:12). That is, forasmuch as
all naturally are guilty of original sin, the sin that was committed
by us in Adam; so this is one cause why none can be justified by
their obedience to the law, because they have in the first place
broken it in their first parents. But, (2.) in case this should be
opposed and rejected by quarrelsome persons, though there be no
ground for it, Paul hath another argument to back his doctrine,
saying, For we have proved (already) that both Jews and Gentiles
are all under sin. "As it is written, There is none righteous, no,
not one." "They are all gone out of the way, they are together,"
mark, together, "become unprofitable, there is none that doeth
good, no, not one." "Their throat is an open sepulchre; with their
tongues they have used deceit, the poison of asps is under their
lips." Their "mouths are full of cursing and bitterness." "Their
feet are swift to shed blood." In a word, "Destruction and misery
are in their ways; and the way of peace have they not known." Now
then, saith he, having proved these things so clearly, the conclusion
of the whole is this, "That what things soever the law saith," in
both showing of sin, and cursing for the same, "it saith" all "to
them who are under the law that every mouth may be stopped, and
all the world may become guilty before God" (Rom 3:10,19). So that
here, I say, lieth the ground of our not being justified by the
law, even because, in the first place, we have sinned against it;
for know this for certain, that if the law doth take the least
advantage of thee by thy sinning against it, all that ever thou
shalt afterwards hear from it is nothing but Curse, curse, curse
him, "for not continuing in all things which are written in the
book of the law to do them."

2. Thou canst not be saved by the righteous Law of God, the first
covenant, because that, together with this thy miserable state, by
original and actual sins, before thou didst follow the law, since
thy turning to the law thou hast committed several sins against the
law--"In many things we offend all." So that now thy righteousness
to the law being mixed with sometimes the lust of concupiscence,
fornication, covetousness, pride, heart-risings against God, coldness
of affection towards Him, backwardness to good duties, speaking
idle words, having of strife in your hearts, and such like; I say,
these things being thus, the righteousness of the law is become
too weak through this our flesh (Rom 8:3), and so, notwithstanding
all our obedience to the law, we are yet through our weakness under
the curse of the law; for, as I said before, the law is so holy,
so just, and so good, that it cannot allow that any failing or slip
should be done by them that look for life by the same. "Cursed is
every one that continuteth not in everything" (Gal 3:10). And this
Paul knew full well, which made him throw away all his righteousness.
But you will say, that was his own. Answ. But it was even that which
while he calls it his own, he also calls it the righteousness of
the law (Phil 3:7-10) and to account it but dung, but as dirt on
his shoes, and that, that he might be found in Christ, and so be
saved by Him "without the deeds of the law" (Rom 3:28). But,

3. Set the case, the righteousness of the law which thou hast was
pure and perfect, without the least flaw or fault, without the
least mixture of the least sinful thought, yet this would fall far
short of presenting of thee blameless in the sight of God. And that
I prove by these arguments--(1.) The first argument is, that that
which is not Christ cannot redeem souls from the curse, it cannot
completely present them before the Lord; now the law is not Christ;
therefore the moral law cannot, by all our obedience to it, deliver
us from the curse that is due to us (Acts 4:12). (2.) The second
argument is, that that righteousness that is not the righteousness
of faith, that is, by believing in Jesus Christ, cannot please
God; now the righteousness of the law as a Covenant of Works is
not the righteousness of faith; therefore the righteousness of the
law as acted by us, being under that covenant, cannot please God.
The first is proved in Hebrews 11:6, "But without faith it is
impossible to please Him"; mark, it is impossible. The second thus,
"The law is not of faith" (Gal 3:12; Rom 10:5,6), compared with
Galatians 3:11. "But that no man is justified by the law in the
sight of God, it is evident; for, The just shall live by faith.
And the law is not of faith."

But for the better understanding of those that are weak of
apprehension, I shall prove it thus--1. The soul that hath eternal
life, he must have it by right of purchase or redemption (Heb 9:12;
Eph 1:7). 2. This purchase of redemption must be through the blood
of Christ. "We have redemption through His blood." "Without shedding
of blood is no remission." Now the law is not in a capacity to die,
and so to redeem sinners by the purchase of blood, which satisfaction
justice calls for. Read the same Scriptures (Heb 9:22). Justice
calls for satisfaction, because thou hast transgressed and sinned
against it, and that must have satisfaction; therefore all that
ever thou canst do cannot bring in redemption, though thou follow
the law up the to the nail-head, as I may say, because all this
is not shedding of blood; for believe it, and know it for certain,
that though thou hadst sinned but one sin before thou didst turn
to the law, that one sin will murder thy soul, if it be not washed
away by blood, even by the precious blood of Jesus Christ, that
was shed when He did hang upon the cross on Mount Calvary.

Object. But you will say, "Methinks, that giving of ourselves up
to live a righteous life should make God like the better of us,
and so let us be saved by Christ, because we are so willing to obey
His law."

Answ. The motive that moveth God to have mercy upon sinners is not
because they are willing to follow the law, but because He is willing
to save them. "Not for thy righteousness, or for the uprighteous
of thine heart dost thou go to possess their land" (Deu 9:4-6).
Now understand this: if thy will to do righteousness was the first
moving cause why God had mercy on thee through Christ, then it must
not be freely by grace--I say, freely. But the Lord loves thee and
saves thee upon free terms, having nothing beforehand to make Him
accept of thy soul, but only the blood of Christ; therefore to allow
of such a principle it is to allow that grace is to be obtained
by the works of the law, which is as gross darkness as lies in
the darkest dungeon in Popery, and is also directly opposite to
Scripture--For we are "justified freely by His grace, through the
redemption that is in Christ"; not through the good that is in our
selves, or done by us, no, "but by faith, without"--mark that--"without
the deeds of the law" (Rom 3:24-28). Again, "Not of works, least
any man should boast" (Eph 2:9). No, no, saith he, "Not according
to our works," or righteousness, "but according to His own purpose";
mark "according to His own purpose and grace, which was" a free
gift, "given us in Christ Jesus," not lately, but "before the world
began" (2 Tim 1:9).

Object. But you will say, "Then why did God give the law, if we
cannot have salvation by following of it?"

Answ. I told you before that the law was given for these following
reasons--1. That thou mightest be convinced by it of thy sins, and
that thy sins might indeed appear very sinful unto thee, which is
done by the law these ways--(1.) By showing of thee what a holy God
He is that did give the law; and, (2.) By showing thee thy vileness
and wickedness, in that thou, contrary to this holy God, hast
transgressed against and broken this His holy Law; therefore, saith
Paul, "the law entered, that the offence might abound," that is, by
showing the creature the holiness of God, and also its own vileness
(Rom 5:20). 2. That thou mayest know that God will not damn thee for
nothing in the judgment-day. 3. Because He would have no quarreling
at His just condemning of them at that day. 4. Because He will make
thee to know that He is a holy God and pure.

WHAT MEN MAY ATTAIN TO THAT ARE UNDER THIS COVENANT OF WORKS.

[FOURTH] Quest. "But seeing you have spoken thus far, I wish you
would do so much as to show in some particulars, both what men
have done, and how far they have gone, and what they have received,
being yet under this covenant, which you call the ministration of
condemnation."

Answ. This is somewhat a difficult question, and had need be not only
warily, but also home and soundly answered. The question consists
of three particulars--First, What men have done; Second, How far
men have gone; Third, What they have received, and yet to be under
the law, or Covenant of Works, and so in a state of condemnation.

[First.] As for the first, I have spoken something in general to
that already; but for thy better understanding I shall yet speak
more particularly.

1. A man hath and may be convinced and troubled for his sins, and
yet be under this covenant, and that in a very heavy and dreadful
manner, insomuch that he find the weight of them to be intolerable
and too heavy for him to bear, as it was with Cain, "My punishment,"
saith he, "is greater than I can bear" (Gen 4:13).

2. A man living thus under a sense of his sins may repent and be
sorry for them, and yet be under this covenant, and yet be in a
damned state. And when he, Judas, saw what was done, he "repented"
(Matt 27:3).

3. Men may not only be convinced, and also repent for their sins,
but they may also desire the prayers of the children of God for
them too, and yet be under this covenant and curse, "Then Pharaoh
called for Moses and Aaron, in haste, and he said, I have sinned;
entreat the LORD your God that He may take away from me this death"
(Exo 10:16, 17).

4. A man may also humble himself for his offences and disobedience
against his God, and yet be under this covenant (1 Kings 21:24-19).

5. A man may make restitution unto men for the offence he hath done
unto them, and yet be under this covenant.

6. A man may do much work for God in his generation, and yet be
under this first covenant; as Jehu, who did do that which God bid
him (2 Kings 9:25, 26). And yet God threateneth even Jehu, because
though he did do the thing that the Lord commanded him, yet he did
it not from a right principle; for had he, the Lord would not have
said, "Yet a little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel
upon the house of Jehu" (Hosea 1:4).

7. Men may hear and fear the servants of the Lord, and reverence
them very highly; yea, and when they hear, they may not only hear,
but hear and do, and that gladly too, not one or two things, but
many; mark, many things gladly, and yet be lost, and yet be damned,
"For Herod feared John," why? not because he had any civil power
over him, but because "he was a just man and an holy, and observed
him; and when he heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly"
(Mark 6:20). It may be that thou thinkest that because thou hearest
such and such, therefore thou art better than thy neighbours; but
know for certain that thou mayest not only hear, but thou mayest
hear and do, and that not with a backward will, but gladly--mark,
"gladly"--and yet be Herod still, an enemy to the Lord Jesus still.
Consider this, I pray you.

Second. But to the second thing, which is this, How far may such
an one go? To what may such an one attain? Whither may he arrive,
and yet be an undone man, under this covenant? [1] answer--

1. Such an one may be received into fellowship with the saints, as
they are in a visible way of walking one with another; they may
walk hand in hand together, "The Kingdom of Heaven," that is, a
visible company of professors of Christ, is likened to ten virgins,
which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the Bridegroom, "five
of them were wise, and five were foolish" (Matt 25:1,2). These,
in the first place, are called virgins--that is, such as are clear
from the pollutions of the world; secondly, they are said to go
forth--that is, from the rudiments and traditions of men; thirdly,
they do agree to take their lamps with them--that is, to profess
themselves the servants of Jesus Christ, that wait upon Him, and
for Him; and yet when He came, He found half of them, even the
virgins, that had lamps, that also went forth from the pollutions
of the world and the customs of men, to be such as lost their
precious souls (verse 12) which they should not have done, had they
been under the Covenant of Grace, and so not under the law.

2. They may attain to a great deal of honour in the said company
of professors, that which may be accounted honour, insomuch that
they may be put in trust with church affairs, and bear the bag, as
Judas did. I speak not this to shame the saints, but, being beloved,
I warn them; yet I speak this on purpose that it might, if the Lord
will, knock at the door of the souls of professors. Consider Demas!

3. They may attain to speak of the Word as ministers, and become
preachers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, insomuch that the people
where they dwell may even take up a proverb concerning them, saying,
"Is he among the prophets?" his gifts may be so rare, his tongue
may be so fluent, and his matter may be so fit, that he may speak
with a tongue like an angel, and speak of the hidden mysteries,
yea, of them all; mark that, and yet be nothing, and yet be none
of the Lord's anointed ones, with the Spirit of grace savingly,
but may live and die under the curse of the law (1 Cor 13:1-4).

4. They may go yet further; they may have the gifts of the Spirit
of God, which may enable them to cast out devils, to remove the
biggest hills or mountains in the world; nay, thou mayest be so
gifted as to prophesy of things to come, the most glorious things,
even the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ to reign over all His
enemies, and yet be but a Balaam, a wicked and a mad prophet (2
Peter 2:16; Num 24:16-25).

5. There may not only stand thus for awhile, for a little season,
but they may stand thus till the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ
with His holy angels; ay, and not be discovered of the saints till
that very day. "Then all those virgins arose,"--the wise and the
foolish; then! when? why, when this voice was heard, "Behold the
Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him" (Matt 25:1-6). And yet
were out of the Lord Jesus Christ, and yet were under the law.

6. Nay, further, they may not only continue in a profession till
then, supposing themselves to be under the grace of the Gospel,
when indeed they are under the curse of the law, but even when the
Bridegroom is come, they may still be so confident of their state
to be good, that they will even reason out the case with Christ why
they are not let into the kingdom of glory, saying, "Lord, Lord,
we have eaten and drunk in Thy presence; and Thou hast taught in
our streets." Nay, further, "Have we not prophesied in Thy name?
and in Thy name have cast out devils?" Nay, not only thus, but,
"done many," mark, we have "done many wonderful works." Nay, further,
they were so confident, that they commanded, in a commanding way,
saying, "Lord, open to us." See here, I beseech you, how far these
went; they thought they had had intimate acquaintance with Jesus
Christ, they thought He could not choose but save them; they had eat
and drunk with Him, sat at the table with Him, received power from
Him, executed the same power. In Thy name have we done thus and thus;
even wrought many wonderful works (Matt 7:22; Luke 13:25,26). And
yet these poor creatures were shut out of the kingdom. O consider
this, I beseech you, before it be too late, lest you say, Lord, let
us come in, when Christ saith, Thrust him out (Verse 28). Hears you
cry, "Lord open to us," when He saith, "Depart, I know you not";
lest though you think of having joy, you have "weeping and gnashing
of teeth."

Third. But the third thing touched in the question was this--What
may such an one receive of God who is under the curse of the law?

1. They may receive an answer to their prayers from God at some
times, for some things as they do stand in need of. I find in
Scripture that God did hear these persons that the Apostle saith
were cast out (Gen 21:17). "And God heard the voice of the lad,"
even of cast-out Ishmael; "and the angel of God called to Hagar"
which was the bond-woman, and under the law (Gal 4:30). "out of
heaven, and said unto her, Fear not; for God hath heard the voice
of the lad where he is." Friends, it may be you may think, because
you have your prayers answered in some particular things, therefore
you may suppose that as to your eternal state your condition is very
good. But you must know that God doth hear the cry of a company of
Ishmaelites, the sons of the bondwomen, who are under the law as a
Covenant of Works. I do not say He hears them as to their eternal
state, but He heareth them as to several straits that they go through
in this life, ay, and gives them ease and liberty from their trouble.
Here this poor wretch was almost perished for a little water, and
he cried, and God heard him, yea, He heard him out of Heaven. Read
also Psalm 107:23-29. "He gave them their desire, but He
sent leanness into their soul" (Psa 106:15). 7

But some may say, Methinks this is yet more strange that God should
hear the prayers, the cries of those that are under the law, and
answer them. Answ. I told you before, He doth not hear them as to
their eternal state, but as to their temporal state; for God as
their Creator hath a care for them, and causeth the sun to shine
upon them, and the rain to distill upon their substance (Matt
5:45). Nay, He doth give the beasts in the field their appointed
food, and doth hear the young ravens when they cry, which are far
inferior to man (Psa 147:9). I say, therefore, that God doth hear
the cries of His creatures, and doth answer them too, though not
as to their eternal state; but may damn them nevertheless when they
die for all that.

2. They may receive promises from the mouth of the Lord. There are
many that have promises made to them by the Lord in a most eminent
way, and yet, as I said before, are such as are cast out and called
the children of the bond-woman, which is the law--"And the angel
of God called to Hagar out of Heaven," that was the bond-woman,
saying, "Fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where
he is. Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; FOR
I WILL MAKE HIM,"--mark, there is the promise,--"for I will make
him," of the son of the bond-woman, "a great nation" (Gen 21:17,18).

3. Nay, they may go further; for they may receive another heart
than they had before, and yet be under the law. There is no man,
I think, but those that do not know what they say, that will think
or say that Saul was under the Covenant of Grace; yet after he had
talked with Samuel, and had turned his back to go from him, saith
the Scripture, "God gave him another heart" (1 Sam 10:9). Another
heart, mark that, and yet an out-cast, a rejected person (1 Sam
15:26,29). Friends, I beseech you, let not these things offend
you, but let them rather beget in your hearts an inquiring into
the truth of your condition, and be willing to be searched to
the bottom; and also, that everything which hath not been planted
by the Lord's right hand may be rejected, and that there may be a
reaching after better things, even the things that will not only
make thy soul think thy state is good now, but that thou mayest be
able to look sin, death, Hell, the curse of the law, together with
the Judge, in the face with comfort, having such a real, sound,
effectual work of God's grace in thy soul, that when thou hearest
the trumpet sound, seest the graves fly open, and the dead
come creeping forth out of their holes; when thou shalt see the
judgment set, the books opened, and all the world standing before
the judgment-seat; I say, that then thou mayest stand, and have
that blessed sentence spoken to thy soul, "Come, ye blessed of My
Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world" (Matt 25:34).

[Objection to this head.] But, you will say, for all this, We cannot
believe that we are under the law, for these reasons--As, First.
Because we have found a change in our hearts. Second. Because we
do deny that the Covenant of Works will save any. Third. Because,
for our parts, we judge ourselves far from legal principles; for we
are got up into as perfect a Gospel order, as to matter of practice
and discipline in church affairs, as any this day in England, as
we judge.

[Answer to reason first.] That man's belief that is grounded upon
anything done in him, or by him only, that man's belief is not grounded
upon the death, burial, resurrection, ascension, and intercession
of Jesus Christ; for that man that hath indeed good ground of his
eternal salvation, his faith is settled upon that object which God
is well pleased or satisfied withal, which is that man that was
born of Mary, even her first-born Son--that is, he doth apply by
faith to his soul the virtues of His death, blood, righteousness,
etc., and doth look for satisfaction of soul nowhere else than from
that, neither doth the soul seek to give God any satisfaction as
to justification any other ways; but doth willingly and cheerfully
accept of and embrace the virtues of Christ's death, together with
the rest of His things done by Himself on the cross as a sacrifice,
and since also as a priest, advocate, mediator, etc.; and doth
so really and effectually receive the glories of the same, that
thereby--mark that--thereby he is "changed into the same image,
from glory to glory" (2 Cor 3:18). Thus in general; but yet more
particular--

1. To think that your condition is good because there is some
change in you from a loose profane life, to a more close, honest,
and civil life and conversation; I say, to think this testimony
sufficient to ground the stress of thy salvation upon is very
dangerous. First, because such a soul doth not only lay the stress
of its salvation besides the man Christ Jesus that died upon the
cross; but secondly, because that his confidence is not grounded
upon the Saviour of sinners, but upon his turning from gross sins
to a more refined life,--and it may be to the performance of some
good duties--which is no Saviour; I say, this is very dangerous;
therefore read it, and the Lord help you to understand it; for
unless you lay the whole stress of the salvation of your souls upon
the merits of another man--namely, Jesus--and that by what He did
do and is adoing without you, for certain, as sure as God is in
Heaven, your souls will perish. And this must not be notionally
neither, as with an assenting of the understanding only; but it must
be by the wonderful, invisible, invincible power of the Almighty
God, working in your souls by His Spirit such a real, saving, holy
faith, that can, through the operation of the same Spirit by which
it is wrought, lay hold on and apply these most heavenly, most
excellent, most meritorious benefits of the man Christ Jesus, not
only to your heads and fancies, but to your very souls and consciences,
so effectually, that you may be able by the same faith to challenge
the power, madness, malice, rage, and destroying nature either of
sin, the law, death, the devil, together with Hell and all other
evils, throwing your souls upon the death, burial, resurrection,
and intercession of that man Jesus without (Rom 8:32-39). But,

2. Do you think that there was no change in the five foolish
virgins spoken of (Matt 25:1-3). Yes; there was such a change in
those very people, that the five wise ones could give them admittance
of walking with them in the most pure ways and institutions of the
Gospel of Christ, and yet but foolish; nay, they walked with them,
or shall walk with them, until the Lord Jesus Christ shall break
down from Heaven, and yet be but foolish virgins, and yet but under
the law, and so under the curse, as I said before.

[Second part of objection.] But, say you, We have disowned the
Covenant of Works, and turned from that also.

[Answer to reason second.] This is sooner said than done. Alas, alas!
poor souls think because they say, "Grace, grace, it is freely by
grace," therefore they are under the Covenant of Grace. A very wide
mistake. You must understand thus much, that though you be such as
can speak of the grace of the Gospel, yet if you yourselves be not
brought under the very Covenant of Grace, you are yet, notwithstanding
your talk and profession, very far wide of a sense and of a share
in the Covenant of the Grace of God held forth in the Gospel.

The Jews were of a clearer understanding many of them than to
conclude that the law, and only the law, was the way to salvation;
for they, even they that received not the Christ of God, did expect
a Saviour should come (John 7:27,41-43). But they were men that
had not the Gospel Spirit, which alone is able to lead them to the
very life, marrow, or substance of the Gospel in right terms; and
so being muddy in their understandings, being between the thoughts
of a Saviour and the thoughts of the works of the law, thinking
that they must be accomplished for the obtaining of a Saviour, and
His mercy towards them; I say, between these they fell short of a
Saviour. As many poor souls in these days, they think they must be
saved alone by the Saviour, yet they think there is something to
be done on their parts for the obtaining of the good-will of the
Saviour, as their humiliation for sin, their turning from the same,
their promises, and vows, and resolutions to become new men, join
in church-fellowship, and what not; and thus they, bringing this
along with them as a means to help them, they fall short of eternal
salvation if they are not converted; see that Scripture (Rom
9:30-32). The Apostle saith there, that they that sought not did
obtain, when they that did seek fell short. "What shall we say then?"
saith he. "That the Gentiles which sought not after righteousness,
have attained to righteousness," yea, "even the righteousness
which is of faith." And what else? Why, "but Israel which followed
after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of
righteousness." How came that to pass? "Because," saith he, "they
sought it not by faith, but as it were"--mark, he doth not say,
altogether, no, "but as it were"--that is, because as they sought,
they did a little by the bye lean upon the works of the law. And
let me tell you, that this is such a hard thing to beat men off of,
that though Paul himself did take the work in hand, he did find
enough to do touching it; how is he fain to labour in the ten
first chapters of his Epistle to the Romans, for the establishing
of those that did even profess largely in the doctrine of grace, and
also in that Epistle to the Galatians; and yet lost many, do what
he could. Now, the reason why the doctrine of grace doth so hardly
down--even with professors--in truth, effectually, it is because
there is a principle naturally in man that doth argue against the
same, and that thus: Why, saith the soul, I am a sinner, and God
is righteous, holy, and just; His holy Law, therefore, having been
broken by me, I must, by all means, if ever I look to be saved,
in the first place, be sorry for my sins; secondly, turn from the
same; thirdly, follow after good duties, and practise the good
things of the law and ordinances of the Gospel, and so hope that
God for Christ's sake may forgive all my sins; which is not the
way to God as a Father in Christ, but the way, the very way to come
to God by the Covenant of Works, or the law, which things I shall
more fully clear when I speak to the second doctrine.

Again, therefore, those that this day profess the Gospel, for
the generality of them they are such, that, notwithstanding their
profession, they are very ignorant of that glorious influence and
lustre of the same; I say, they are ignorant of the virtue and
efficacy of the glorious things of Christ held forth by and in
the Gospel, which doth argue their not being under the Covenant of
Grace, but rather under the law or old covenant (2 Cor 4:3). As,
for instance, if you do come among some professors of the Gospel,
in general you shall have them pretty busy and ripe; also able to
hold you in a very large discourse in several points of the same
glorious Gospel; but if you come to the same people and ask them
concerning heart-work, or what work the Gospel hath wrought on
them, and what appearance they have had of the sweet influences and
virtues on their souls and consciences, it may be they will give
you such an answer as this--I do find by the preaching thereof that
I am changed, and turned from my sins in a good measure, and also
have learned (but only in tongue), to distinguish between the law
and the Gospel, so that for the one--that is, for the Gospel--I
can plead, and also can show the weakness and unprofitableness of
the other. And thus far, it is like they may go, which is not far
enough to prove them under the Covenant of Grace, though they may
have their tongues so largely tipped with the profession of the
same (2 Peter 2:20) where he saith "For if after they have escaped
the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ," which was not a saving knowledge, "they are
again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end" of that man
"is worse than the beginning" (Matt 25:1-4, etc.; Matt 7:22).

Object. But, you will say, is not this a fair declaring of the work
of grace, or doth it not discover that, without all gainsaying,
we are under the Covenant of Grace, when we are able, not only to
speak of the glorious Gospel of Jesus Christ, but also to tell,
and that by experience, that we have been changed from worse to
better, from sin to a holy life, by leaving of the same, and that
by hearing of the Word preached?

Answer 1. A man may, in the first place, be able to talk of all
the mysteries of the Gospel, and that like an angel of God, and yet
be no more in God's account than the sounding of a drum, brass, or
the tinkling of a cymbal, which are things that, notwithstanding
their sound and great noise, are absolutely void of life and motion,
and so are accounted with God as nothing--that is, no Christians,
no believers, not under the Covenant of Grace for all that (1 Cor
13:1-4). 2. Men may not only do this, but may also be changed in
reality, for a season, from what they formerly were, and yet be
nothing at all in the Lord's account as to an eternal blessing.
Read 2 Peter 2:20, the Scripture which I mentioned before; for,
indeed, that one Scripture is enough to prove all that I desire to
say as to this very thing; for, if you observe, there is enfolded
therein these following things--(1.) That reprobates may attain to
a knowledge of Christ. (2.) This knowledge may be of such weight
and force, that, for the present, it may make them escape the
pollutions of the world, and this by hearing the Gospel. "For if
after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the
knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again
entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end of that man is worse
than the beginning." [Some professors, take them at the best, they
are but like dogs, spewing out their filth for a time.] Now that
they are reprobates, dogs, or sows, read further; "But," saith he,
"it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog
is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to
her wallowing in the mire" (Verse 22).

[Third part of objection.] The last part of the objection. But, say
you, our practices in the worship of God shall testify for us that
we are not under the law; for we have by God's goodness attained to
as exact a way of waking in the ordinances of God, and as near the
examples of the Apostles, as ever any churches since the primitive
times, as we judge.

[Answer to reason third.] What then? Do you think that the walking
in the order of the churches of old, as to matter of outward worship,
is sufficient to clear you of your sins at the judgment-day? or, do
you think that God will be contented with a little bodily subjection
to that which shall vanish and fade like a flower, when the Lord
shall come from Heaven in flaming fire, with His mighty angels (2
Thess 1:7,8). Alas, alas, how will such professors as these are fall
before the judgment-seat of Christ! Then such a question as this,
"Friend, how camest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment?"
will make them be speechless, and fall down into everlasting
burnings, thousands on a heap; for you must know that it is not
then your crying, Lord, Lord, that will stand you in stead; not
your saying, We have ate and drank in Thy presence, that will keep
you from standing on the left hand of Christ. It is the principle
as well as the practice that shall be inquired into at that day.

Quest. The principle, you will say, what do you mean by that?

Answ. My meaning is, the Lord Jesus Christ will then inquire
and examine whether the spirit from which you acted was legal or
evangelical--that is, whether it was the Spirit of adoption that
did draw you out to the thing you took in hand, or a mere moral
principle, together with some shallow and common illuminations into
the outward way of the worship of God, according to Gospel rule.

Quest. But, you will say, it is like, How should this be made
manifest and appear?

Answ. I shall speak briefly in answer hereunto as followeth--First,
then, that man that doth take up any of the ordinances of God--namely,
as prayer, baptism, breaking of bread, reading, hearing, alms-deeds,
or the like; I say, he that doth practise any of these, or such like,
supposing thereby to procure the love of Christ to his own soul,
he doth do what he doth from a legal, and not from an evangelical
or Gospel spirit: as thus--for a man to suppose that God will hear
him for his prayer's sake, for his alm's sake, for his humiliation's
sake, or because he hath promised to make God amends hereafter,
whereas there is no such thing as a satisfaction to be made to God
by our prayers or whatever we can do; I say, there is no such way
to have reconciliation with God in. And so also for men to think,
because they are got into such and such an ordinance, and have
crowded themselves into such and such a society, that therefore
they have got pretty good shelter from the wrath of the Almighty;
when, alas, poor souls, there is no such thing. No, but God will
so set His face against such professors, that His very looks will
make them to tear their very flesh; yea, make them to wish would
they had the biggest millstone in the world hanged about their
neck, and they cast into the midst of the sea. For, friends, let me
tell you, though you can now content yourselves without the holy,
harmless, undefiled, perfect righteousness of Christ; yet there
is a day a-coming in which there is not one of you shall be saved
but those that are and shall be found clothed with that righteousness;
God will say to all the rest, "Take them, bind them hand and foot,
and cast them into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing
of teeth" (Matt 22:13). For Christ will not say unto men in that
day, Come, which of you made a profession of Me, and walked in
church-fellowship with My saints: no; but then it shall be inquired
into, who have the reality of the truth of grace wrought in their
hearts. And, for certain, he that misseth of that shall surely be
cast into the Lake of Fire, there to burn with the devils and damned
men and women; there to undergo the wrath of an eternal God, and
that not for a day, a month, a year, but for ever, for ever, for
ever and ever; there is that which cutteth to the quick. Therefore,
look to it, and consider now what you do, and whereon you hang your
souls; for it is not every pin that will hold in the judgment, not
every foundation that will be able to hold up the house against
those mighty, terrible, soul-drowning floods and destroying tempests
which then will roar against the soul and body of a sinner (Luke
6:47-49). And, if the principle be rotten, all will fall, all
will come to nothing. Now, the principle is this--Not to do things
because we would be saved, but to do them from this--namely, because
we do really believe that we are and shall be saved. But do not
mistake me; I do not say we should slight any holy duties; God
forbid; but I say, he that doth look for life because he doth do
good duties, he is under the Covenant of Works, the law; let his
duties be never so eminent, so often, so fervent, so zealous. Ay,
and I say, as I said before, that if any man or men, or multitudes
of people, do get into never so high, so eminent; and clear practices
and Gospel order, as to church discipline, if it be done to this
end I have been speaking of, from this principle, they must and
shall have these sad things fall to their share which I have made
mention of.

Object. But, you will say, can a man use Gospel ordinances with a
legal spirit?

Answ. Yes, as easily as the Jews could use and practise circumcision,
though not the moral or Ten Commandments. For this I shall be
bold to affirm, that it is not the commands of the New Testament
administration that can keep a man from using of its self [that
administration] in a legal spirit; for know this for certain, that
it is the principle, not the command, that makes the subjector to
the same either legal or evangelical, and so his obedience from
that command to be from legal convictions or evangelical principles.

Now, herein the devil is wondrous subtle and crafty, in suffering
people to practise the ordinances and commands of the Gospel, if
they do but do them in a legal spirit, [I beseech you, do not think
because I say this, therefore I am against the ordinances of the
Gospel, for I do honour them in their places, yet would not that
any of them should be idolized, or done in a wrong spirit,] from
a spirit of works; for he knows then, that if he can but get the
soul to go on in such a spirit, though they do never so many duties,
he shall hold them sure enough; for he knows full well that thereby
they do set up something in the room of, or, at the least, to have
some, though but a little, share with the Lord Jesus Christ in
their salvation; and if he can but get thee here, he knows that he
shall cause thee by thy depending a little upon the one, and so
thy whole dependence being not upon the other, that is, Christ, and
taking of him upon his own terms, thou wilt fall short of life by
Christ, though thou do very much busy thyself in a suitable walking,
in an outward conformity to the several commands of the Lord Jesus
Christ. And let me tell you plainly, that I do verily believe
that as Satan by his instruments did draw many of the Galatians
by circumcision (though, I say, it was none of the commands of the
moral law) to be debtors to do upon pain of eternal damnation the
whole of the moral law, so also Satan, in the time of the Gospel,
doth use even the commands laid down in the Gospel, some of them,
to bind the soul over to do the same law; the thing being done
and walked in, by and in the spirit; for, as I said before, it is
not the obedience to the command that makes the subjector thereto
evangelical, or of a Gospel spirit; but, contrariwise, the principle
that leads out the soul to the doing of the command, that makes
the persons that do thus practise any command, together with the
command by them practised, either legal or evangelical. As, for
instance, prayer--it is a Gospel command; yet if he that prays
doth it in a legal spirit, he doth make that which in itself is a
Gospel command an occasion of leading him into a Covenant of Works,
inasmuch as he doth it by and in that old covenant spirit.

Again; giving of alms is a Gospel command; yet if I do give alms
from a legal principle, the command to me is not Gospel, but legal,
and it binds me over, as aforesaid, to do the whole law--"For
he is not a Jew," nor a Christian, "which is one outwardly"--that
is, one only by an outward subjection to the ordinances of prayer,
hearing, reading, baptism, breaking of bread, etc.--"But he is a
Jew," a Christian, "which is one inwardly," who is rightly principled,
and practiseth the ordinances of the Lord from the leadings forth
of the Spirit of the Lord, from a true and saving faith in the
Lord (Rom 2:28,29). Those men spoken of in the 7th of Matthew, for
certain, for all their great declaration, did not do what they did
from a right Gospel spirit; for had they, no question but the Lord
would have said, "Well done, good and faithful servant." But in
that the Lord Jesus doth turn them away into Hell, notwithstanding
their great profession of the Lord, and of their doing in His name,
it is evident that notwithstanding all that they did do, they were
still under the law, and not under that covenant as true believers
are--to wit, the Covenant of Grace; and if so, then all their duties
that they did, of which they boasted before the Lord, was not in
and by a right evangelical principle or spirit.

Again, saith the Apostle, "Whatsoever is not of faith is sin," (Rom
14:23); but there are some that do even practise baptism, breaking
of bread, together with other ordinances, and yet are unbelievers;
therefore unbelievers doing these things, they are not done in
faith but sin. Now to do these things in sin, or without faith, it
is not to do things in an evangelical or Gospel spirit; also they
that do these things in a legal spirit, the very practising of them
renders them not under the law of Christ, as Head of His Church,
but the works they do are so much contradiction to the Gospel of
God, or the Covenant of Grace, that they that do them thus do even
set up against the Covenant of Grace; and the very performance of
them is of such force that it is sufficient to drown them that are
subjects thereunto, even under the Covenant of Works; but this poor
souls are not aware of, and there is their misery.

Quest. But have you no other way to discover the things of the
Gospel, how they are done with a legal principle, but those you
have already made mention of?

Answ. That thou mightest be indeed satisfied herein, I shall show
you the very manner and way that a legal, or old-covenant-converted
professor, bear with the terms, doth take both in the beginning,
middle, and the end of his doing of any duty or command, or whatsoever
it be that he doth do. 1. He thinking this or that to be his duty,
and considering of the same, he is also presently persuaded in
his own conscience that God will not accept of him if he leave it
undone; he seeing that he is short of his duty, as he supposeth,
while this is undone by him, and also judging that God is angry with
him until the thing be done, he, in the second place, sets to the
doing of the duty, to the end he may be able to pacify his conscience
by doing of the same, persuading of himself that now the Lord is
pleased with him for doing of it. 2. Having done it, he contents
himself, sits down at his ease, until some further convictions of
his duty to be done, which when he seeth and knoweth, he doth do
it as aforesaid, from the same principle as he did the former, and
so goeth on in his progress of profession. This is to do things
from a legal principle, and from an old-covenant spirit; for thus
runs that covenant, "The man that doth these things shall live in
them," of "by them" (Lev 18:5; Gal 3:12; Rom 10:5). But more of
this in the use of this doctrine.

Object. But, you will say, by these words of yours you do seem
to deny that there are conditional promises in the Gospel, as is
clear, in that you strike at such practices as are conditional,
and commanded to be done upon the same.

Answ. The thing that I strike at is this, that a man in or with a
legal spirit should not, nay, cannot, do any conditional command
of the Gospel acceptably, as to his eternal state, because he doth
it in an old-covenant spirit. "No man putteth new wine into old
bottles"; but new wine must have new bottles, a Gospel command must
have a Gospel spirit, or else the wine will break the bottles, or
the principle will break the command.

Object. Then you do grant that there are conditional promises in
the New Testament, as in the moral law, or Ten Commands.

Answ. Though this be true, yet the conditional promises in the
New Testament do not call to the same people in the same state of
unregeneracy to fulfill them upon the same conditions.

The Law and the Gospel being two distinct covenants, they are made
in divers ways, and the nature of the conditions also being not
the same, as saith the Apostle, the righteousness of the law saith
one thing, and the righteousness of faith saith another (Rom 10:4-6).
That is, the great condition in the law is, If you do these things,
you shall live by them; but the condition, even the greatest condition
laid down for a poor soul to do, as to salvation--for it is that
we speak of--is to believe that my sins be forgiven me for Jesus
Christ's sake, without the works or righteousness of the law, on my
part, to help forward. "To him that worketh not," saith the Apostle
[that is] for salvation, "but believeth on Him that justifieth the
ungodly, his faith"--mark, "his faith is counted for righteousness"
(Rom 4:5). So that we, saith, he, "conclude that a man is justified
by faith without"--mark again, "without the deeds of the law" (Rom
3:28).

But again; there is never a condition in the Gospel that can
be fulfilled by an unbeliever; and therefore, whether there be
conditions or whether there be none, it makes no matter to thee
who art without the faith of Christ; for it is impossible for thee
in that state to do them, so as to be ever the better as to thy
eternal estate; therefore, lest thou shouldst split thy soul upon
the conditions laid down in the Gospel, as thou wilt do if thou go
about to do them only with a legal spirit; but, I say, to prevent
this, see if thou canst fulfill the first condition; that is, to
believe that all thy sins are forgiven thee, not for any condition
that hath been or can be done by thee, but merely for the Man's sake
that did hang on Mount Calvary, between two thieves, some sixteen
hundred years ago and odd. And, I say, see if thou canst believe
that at that time He did, when He hanged on the Cross, give full
satisfaction, for all thy sins, before thou in thy person hadst
committed ever a one. I say, see if thou canst believe this; and
take heed thou deceive not thyself with an historical, notional,
or traditional acknowledgment of the same. And, secondly, see if
thou canst so well fulfill this condition, that the very virtue
and efficacy that it hath on thy soul will engage thee to fulfill
those other conditions, really in love to that Man whom thou
shouldst believe hath frankly and freely forgiven thee all, without
any condition acted by thee to move Him thereto, according to that
saying in 2 Corinthians 5:14, 15; and then thy doing will arise
from a contrary principle than otherwise it will do--that is, then
thou wilt not act and do because thou wouldst be accepted of God,
but because thou hast some good hope in thy heart that thou art
accepted of Him already, and not on thine, but wholly and alone
upon another man's account; for here runs the Gospel spirit of
faith: "We believe,"--mark, "We believe, and therefore speak." So
we believe, and therefore do (2 Cor 4:13). Take heed, therefore,
that you do not DO, that you may believe, but rather believe
so effectually that you may DO, even all that Jesus doth require
of you from a right principle, even out of love to your dear Lord
Jesus Christ, which thing I shall speak to more fully by and by.

Object. But what do you mean by those expressions? Do not do that
you may believe, but believe so effectually that you may do.

Answ. When I say, Do not do that you may believe, I mean, do
not think that any of the things that thou canst do will procure
or purchase faith from God unto thy soul; for that is still the
old-covenant spirit, the spirit of the law, to think to have it for
thy doing. They that are saved, they are saved by grace, through
faith, and that not of themselves, not for anything that they can
do, for they are both the free gift of God, "Not of" doing, or of
"works, lest any man should," be proud, and "boast" (Eph 2:8,9).
Now, some people be so ignorant as to think that God will give them
Christ, and so all the merits of His, if they will be but valiant,
and do something to please God, that they may obtain Him at His
hands; but let me tell them, they may lose a thousand souls quickly,
if they had so many, by going this way to work, and yet be never
the better; for the Lord doth not give His Christ to any upon such
conditions, but He doth give Him freely; that is, without having
respect to anything that is in thee (Rev 22:17; Isa 55:1,2). To him
that is athirst will I give; He doth not say, I will sell; but, I
will give him the water of life freely (Rev 21:6).

Now, if Christ doth give it, and that freely, then He doth not
sell if for anything that is in the creature; but Christ doth give
Himself, as also doth His Father, and that freely, not because
there is anything in us, or done by us, that moves Him thereunto.
If it were by doing, then, saith Paul, "Grace is not grace," seeing
it is obtained by works; but grace is grace, and that is the reason
it is given to men without their works. And if it be by grace,
that is, if it be a free gift from God, without anything foreseen
as done, or to be done, by the creature, then it is not of works,
which is clear; therefore it is grace, without the works of the
law. But if you say, Nay, it is of something in the man done by
him that moves God thereunto; then you must conclude that either
grace is no grace, or else that works are grace and not works. Do
but read with understanding (Rom 11:6).

Now before I go any further, it may be necessary to speak a word
or two to some poor souls that are willing to close in with Jesus
Christ, and would willingly take Him upon His own terms, only
they being muddy in their minds, and have not yet attained the
understanding of the terms and conditions of the two covenants,
they are kept off from closing with Christ; and all is, because
they see they can do nothing [to merit His favour]. As, for example,
come to some souls, and ask them how they do, they will tell you
presently that they are so bad that it is not to be expressed. If
you bid them believe in Jesus Christ, they will answer that they
cannot believe; if you ask them why they cannot believe, they will
answer, because their hearts are so hard, so dead, so dull, so
backward to good duties; and if their hearts were but better, if
they were more earnest, if they could pray better, and keep their
hearts more from running after sin, then they could believe; but
should they believe with such vile hearts, and presume to believe
in Christ, and be so filthy? Now all this is because the spirit of
the law still ruleth in such souls, and blinds them so that they
cannot see the terms of the Gospel. To clear this, take the substance
or the drift of these poor souls, which is this--"If I were better,
then I think I could believe; but being so bad as I am, that
is the reason that I cannot." This is just to do something that I
may believe, to work that I may have Christ, to do the law that I
may have the Gospel; or thus, to be righteous that I may come to
Christ. O man! thou must go quite back again, thou art out of the
way, thou must believe, because thou canst not pray, because thou
canst not do; thou must believe, because there is nothing in thee
naturally that is good, or desireth after good, or else thou wilt
never come to Christ as a sinner; and if so, then Christ will not
receive thee; and if so, then thou mayest see that to keep off
from Christ because thou canst not do, is to be kept from Christ
by the law, and to stand off from Him because thou canst not buy
Him. Thus having spoken something by the way for the direction of
those souls that would come to Christ, I shall return to the former
discourse, wherein ariseth this objection--

Object. But you did but even now put souls upon fulfilling the
first condition of the Gospel, even to believe in Christ, and so
be saved; but now you say it is alone by grace, without condition;
and therefore by these words, there is first a contradiction to your
former sayings, and also that men may be saved without the condition
of faith, which to me seems a very strange thing. I desire, therefore,
that you would clear out what you have said, to my satisfaction.

Answer, 1. Though there be a condition commanded in the Gospel,
yet He that commands the condition doth not leave His children to
their own natural abilities, that in their own strength they should
fulfill them, as the law doth; but the same God that doth command
that the condition be fulfilled, even He doth help His children
by His Holy Spirit to fulfill the same condition; "For it is God
which worketh in you,"--mark "in you," believers, "both to will
and to do of His own good pleasure" (Phil 2:13). "Thou also hast
wrought all our works in us, and for us" (Isa 26:12). So that, if
the condition be fulfilled, it is not done by the ability of the
creature. But,

2. Faith, as it is a gift of God, or an act of ours, take it which
way you will, if we speak properly of salvation, it is not the first
nor the second cause of our salvation, but the third, and that but
instrumentally neither--that is, it only layeth hold of and applieth
to us that which saveth us, which is the love of God, through the
merits of Christ, which are the two main causes of our salvation,
without which all other things are nothing, whether it be faith,
hope, love, or whatever can be done by us. And to this the great
Apostle of the Gentiles speaks fully, for, saith he, "God, who
is rich in mercy, loved us, even when we were dead in sins" (Eph
2:4,5). That is, when we were without faith, and that was the cause
why we believed for He thereby hath quickened us together, through
the meritorious cause, which is Christ, and so hath saved us by
grace--that is, of His own voluntary love and good will; the effect
of which was this, He gave us faith to believe in Christ. Read
soberly Ephesians 2:4-8. Faith, as the gift of God, is not the
Saviour, as our act doth merit nothing; faith was not the cause
that God gave Christ as the first, neither is it the cause why God
converts men to Christ; but faith is a gift bestowed upon us by the
gracious God, the nature of which is to lay hold on Christ, that
God afore did give for a ransom to redeem sinners; this faith hath
its nourishment and supplies from the same God that at the first
did give it, and is the only instrument, through the Spirit, that
doth keep the soul in a comfortable frame, both to do and suffer for
Christ; helps the soul to receive comfort from Christ when it can
get none from itself, beareth up the soul in its progress heavenwards.
But that it is the first cause of salvation, that I deny, or that
it is the second, I deny; but it is only the instrument, or hand,
that receiveth the benefits, that God hath prepared for thee before
thou hadst any faith; so that we do nothing for salvation as we
are men. But if we speak properly, it was God's grace that moved
Him to give Christ a ransom for sinners; and the same God, with
the same grace, that doth give to the soul faith to believe, and
so, by believing, to close in with Him whom God out of His love
and pity did send into the world to save sinners, so that all the
works of the creature are shut out as to justification and life,
and men are saved freely by grace. I shall speak no more here; but
in my discourse upon the second covenant, I shall answer a Hell-bred
objection or two, to forewarn sinners how they turn the grace of
God into wantonness.

And thus, you see, I have briefly spoken to you something touching
the law. First, what it is, and when given; secondly, how sad those
men's conditions are that are under it; thirdly, who they are that
be under it; fourthly, how far they may go, and what they may do
and receive, and yet be under it; which hath been done by way of
answers to several questions, for the better satisfaction of those
that may stand in doubt of the truth of what hath been delivered.

Now, in the next place, I shall come to some application of the
truth of that which hath been spoken; but I shall in the first
place speak something to the second doctrine, and then afterwards
I shall speak something by way of use and application to this first
doctrine.

[DOCTRINE SECOND.]

The second doctrine now to be spoken to is, TO SHOW THAT THE PEOPLE
OF GOD ARE NOT UNDER THE LAW BUT UNDER GRACE--"For ye are not under
the law, but under grace" (Rom 6:14).

You may well remember that from these words I did observe these
two great truths of the Lord--FIRST, That there are some in Gospel
times that are under the law, or Covenant of Works. SECOND, That
there is never a believer under the law, or Covenant of Works,
but under grace. I have spoken something to the former of these
truths--to wit, that there are some under the law, together with
who they are, and what their condition is, that are under it. Now
I am to speak to the second, and to show you who they are, and what
their condition is, that are under that [Covenant of Grace].

But before I come to that, I shall speak a few words to show you
what the word "grace" in this place signifies; [I touched upon
this in the first doctrine] for the word "grace" in the Scripture
referreth sometimes to favour with men (Gen 33:10; 39:4; 50:4).
Sometimes to holy qualifications of saints (2 Cor 8:7). And sometimes
to hold forth the condescension of Christ in coming down from the
glory which He had with His Father before the world was, to be
made of no reputation, and a servant to men (2 Cor 8:9; Phil 2:7).
Again: sometimes it is taken for the free, rich, and unchangeable
love of God to man, through Jesus Christ, that for our cause and
sakes did make Himself poor; and so it is to be understood in these
words, "For ye are not under the law," to be cursed, and damned, and
sent headlong to Hell, "but" you are "under grace," to be saved,
to be pardoned, to be preserved, "and kept by the mighty power
of God, through faith," which alone is the gift of grace, "unto
eternal glory." This one Scripture alone proves the same--"For by
grace are ye saved" (Eph 2:8), by free grace, by rich grace, by
unchangeable grace. And you are saved from the curse of the law;
from the power, guilt, and filth of sin; from the power, malice,
madness, and rage of the devil; from the wishes, curses, and desires
of wicked men; from the hot, scalding, flaming, fiery furnace
of Hell; from being arraigned as malefactors, convinced, judged,
condemned, and fettered with the chains of our sins to the devils
to all eternity; and all this freely, freely by His grace (Rom
3:24) by rich grace unchangeable grace; for, saith He, "I am the
LORD, I change not: therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed"
(Mal 3:6). This is grace indeed.

The word "grace," therefore, in this Scripture (Rom 6:14) is to be
understood of the free love of God in Christ to sinners, by virtue
of the new covenant, in delivering them from the power of sin,
from the curse and condemning power of the old covenant, from the
destroying nature of sin, by its continual workings; as is all
evident if you read with understanding the words as they lie--"For,"
saith he, "sin shall not have dominion over you," or, it shall
not domineer, reign, or destroy you, though you have transgressed
against the Covenant of Works, the law; and the reason is rendered
in these words, "For ye are not under the law"--that is, under
that which accuseth, chargeth, condemneth and brings execution on
the soul for sin,--"but under grace"; that is, under that which
frees you, forgives you, keeps you, and justifies you from all your
sins, adversaries, or whatever may come in to lay anything to your
charge to damn you. For that is truly called grace in this sense
that doth set a man free from all his sins, deliver him from all
the curses of the law, and what else can be laid to His charge,
freely, without any foresight in God to look at what good will be
done by the party that hath offended; and also that doth keep the
soul by the same power through faith--which also is his own proper
gift--unto eternal glory.

Again; that it is a pardon not conditional, but freely given,
consider, first, it is set in opposition to works--"Ye are not under
the law." Secondly, The promise that is made to them (saying, "Sin
shall not have dominion over you") doth not run with any condition
as on their part to be done; but merely and alone because they were
under, or because they had the grace of God extended to them. "Sin
shall not have dominion over you: for," mark the reason, "ye are
not under the law, but under grace."

The words being thus opened, and the truth thus laid down, HOW THERE
IS NEVER A BELIEVER UNDER THE COVENANT OF WORKS, BUT UNDER GRACE,
the free, rich, unchangeable love of God, it remaineth that, in
the first place, we prove the doctrine, and after that proceed.

THE DOCTRINE PROVED.

Now in the doctrine there are two things to be considered and
proved--FIRST, That believers are under grace. SECONDLY, Not under
the law as a Covenant of Works; for so you must understand me. For
these two we need go no further than the very words themselves;
the first part of the words proves the first part of the doctrine,
"Ye are not under the law"; the second part proves the other,
"but" ye are "under grace." But besides these, consider with me a
few things for the demonstrating of these truths, as,

First. They are not under the law, because their sins are pardoned,
which could not be if they were dealt withal according to the law,
and their being under it; for the law alloweth of no repentance,
but accuseth, curseth and condemneth every one that is under
it--"Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which
are written in the Book of the Law to do them" (Gal 3:10). But, I
say, believers having their sins forgiven them, it is because they
are under another, even a new covenant--"Behold, the days come,
saith the LORD, when I will make a new covenant with them."--"For
I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and
their iniquities will I remember no more" (Heb 8:12).

Second. They are not under the law, because their sins and iniquities
are not only forgiven, but they are forgiven them freely. They
that stand in the first covenant, and continue there, are to have
never a sin forgiven them unless they can give God a complete
satisfaction; for the law calls for it at their hands, saying, "Pay
me that thou owest." O! but when God deals with His saints by the
Covenant of Grace it is not so; for it is said, "And when" He saw
"they had nothing to pay, He frankly" and freely "forgave them"
all--"I will heal their backsliding; I will love them freely."--I
will blot "out thy transgressions for Mine own sake," etc. (Luke
7:42; Hosea 14:4; Isa 43:25).

Third. The saints are not under the law, because the righteousness
that they stand justified before God in is not their own actual
righteousness by the law, but by imputation, and is really the
righteousness of Another--namely, of God in Christ (2 Cor 5:21;
Phil 3:9). "Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of
Jesus Christ unto all and upon all," that is, imputed to "them that
believe" (Rom 3:22). But if they were under the old covenant, the
Covenant of Works, then their righteousness must be their own, [But
it is impossible that the righteousness of man by the law should
save him.] or no forgiveness of sins--"If thou doest well, shalt
thou not be accepted?" but if thou transgress, "sin lieth at the
door," saith the law (Gen 4:7).

Fourth. In a word, whatsoever they do receive, whether it be conversion
to God; whether it be pardon of sin; whether it be faith or hope;
whether it be righteousness; whether it be strength" whether it be
the Spirit, or the fruits thereof; whether it be victory over sin,
death, or Hell; whether it be Heaven, everlasting life, and glory
inexpressible; or whatsoever it be, it comes to them freely, God
having no first eye to what they would do, or should do, for the
obtaining of the same. But to take this in pieces--1. In a word,
are they converted? God finds them first, for, saith He, "I am
found of them that sought Me not" (Isa 65:1). 2. Have they pardon
of sin? They have that also freely,--"I will heal their backsliding,
I will love them freely" (Hosea 14:4). 3. Have they faith? It is
the gift of God in Christ Jesus, and He is not only the Author,
that is, the beginner thereof, but He doth also perfect the same
(Heb 12:2). 4. Have they hope? It is God that is the first cause
thereof--"Remember the word unto Thy servant, upon which Thou hast
caused me to hope" (Psa 119:49). 5. Have they righteousness? It is
the free gift of God (Rom 5:17). Have they strength to do the work
of God in their generations, or any other thing that God would
have them do? That also is a free gift from the Lord, for without
Him we neither do nor can do anything (John 15:5). 7. Have we comfort,
or consolation? We have it not for what we have done, but from God
through Christ; for He is the God of all comforts and consolation
(2 Cor 1:3-7). 8. Have we the Spirit, or the fruits thereof? it is
the gift of the Father--"how much more shall your heavenly Father
give the Holy Spirit to them that ask Him (Luke 11:13)? "Thou has
wrought all our works in us" (Isa 26:12).

And so, I say, whether it be victory over sin, death, Hell, or the
devil, it is given us by the victory of Christ--"But thanks be to
God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ" (1
Cor 15:57; Rom 7:24,25). Heaven and glory it is also the gift of
Him who giveth us richly all things to enjoy (Matt 25:34).

So that these things, if they be duly and soberly considered, will
give satisfaction in this thing. I might have added many more for
the clearing of these things; as 1. When God came to man to convert
him, He found him a dead man (Eph 2:1,2). He found him an enemy
to God, Christ, and the salvation of his own soul; He found him
wallowing in all manner of wickedness; He found him taking pleasure
therein; with all delight and greediness. 2. He was fain to quicken
him by putting His Spirit into him, and to translate him by the
mighty operation thereof. He was fain to reveal Christ Jesus unto
him, man being altogether senseless and ignorant of this blessed
Jesus (Matt 11:25,27; 1 Cor 2:7-10). 4. He was fain to break the
snare of the devil, and to let poor man, poor bound and fettered
man, out of the chains of the enemy.

[THE NEW COVENANT FREE AND UNCHANGEABLE, WHO ARE UNDER IT, AND
THEIR PRIVILEGES.]

Now we are to proceed, and the things that we are to treat upon
in the second place are these--First. [Besides the reasons already
given.] Why is it a free and unchangeable grace? SECOND. Who they are
that are actually brought into His free and unchangeable Covenant
of Grace, and how they are brought in? THIRD. What are the privileges
of those that are actually brought into this free and glorious
grace of the glorious God of Heaven and glory?

[THE NEW COVENANT FREE AND UNCHANGEABLE BECAUSE MADE WITH CHRIST.]

FIRST. WHY IT IS A FREE AND UNCHANGEABLE GRACE.

And for the opening of this we must consider, first, How and through
Whom this grace doth come to be, first, free to us, and, secondly,
unchangeable? This grace is free to us through conditions in
Another--that is, by way of covenant or bargain; for this grace
comes by way of covenant or bargain to us, yet made with Another
for us.

First. That it comes by way of covenant, contract, or bargain, though
not personally with us, be pleased to consider these Scriptures,
where it is said, "I have made a covenant with My Chosen: I have
sworn unto David [The word David in this place signifieth Christ,
as also in these Scriptures--(Eze 34:23,24; 37:24,25).] My servant"
(Psa 89:3). "And as for Thee also, by the blood of Thy covenant,"
speaking of Christ, "I have sent forth Thy prisoners out of the pit
wherein is no water," (Zech 9:9-11). Again; "Ye have sold yourselves
for nought; and ye shall be redeemed without money" (Isa 52:3).
"Blessed be the Lord," therefore, saith Zacharias, "for He hath
visited and" also "redeemed His people, and hath raised up an horn
of salvation for us in the house of His servant David; as He spake
by the mouth of His holy Prophets, which have been since the world
began; that we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hands
of all that hate us; to perform the mercy promised to our fathers,
and to remember His holy covenant," or bargain (Luke 1:68-72). [I
might give you more Scriptures; but pray consider the second thing.]
And if any should be offended with the plainness of these words,
as some poor souls may be through ignorance, let them be pleased
to read soberly Isaiah 49:1-12, and there they may see that it runs
as plain a bargain as if two would be making of a bargain between
themselves, and concluding upon several conditions on both sides.
But more of this hereafter. Now,

Second. This covenant, I say, was made with One, not with many, and
also confirmed in the conditions of it with One, not with several.
First, that the covenant was made with One (Gal 3:16). "Now to
Abraham and his Seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to
seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy Seed, which is Christ"
(Verse 17). "And this, I say, that the covenant that was confirmed
before of God, in Christ," etc. The covenant was made with the Seed
of Abraham; not the seeds, but the Seed, which is the Lord Jesus
Christ, our Head and Undertaker in the things concerning the
covenant.

Third. The condition was made with One, and also accomplished
by Him alone, and not by several; yet in the nature, and for the
everlasting deliverance of many; even by one man Jesus Christ, as
it is clear from Romans 5:15-17, etc., and in Zechariah 9:11, the
Lord saith to Christ, "And as for Thee"--mark, "As for Thee also,
by the blood of Thy covenant," or as for Thee whose covenant was
by blood; that is, the condition of the covenant was, that Thou
shouldst spill Thy blood; which having been done in the account of
God, saith He, I according to My condition have let go the prisoners,
or sent them "out of the pit wherein is no water." Those Scriptures
in Galatians 3:16,17 that are above cited, are notably to our purpose;
Verse 16 saith it was made with Christ, Verse 17 saith it was also
confirmed in or with God in Him. Pray read with understanding. "Now,"
saith Paul, "the promises were not made unto seeds, as of many;
but as of one, And to thy Seed, which is Christ." . . . . "The law,
which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that
it should make the promise of none effect." Not that the covenant
was made with Abraham and Christ together, as two persons that
were the undertakers of the same; the promise was made with, or
to, Abraham afterwards; but the covenant with Christ before.

[Neither Abraham nor the fathers able to undertake the accomplishment
of this covenant.]

Further, that the covenant was not personally made with Abraham,
no, nor with any of the fathers, neither so as that they were the
persons that should stand engaged to be the accomplishers thereof,
either in whole or in part; which is very clear.

First. Because this covenant was not made with God and the creature;
not with another poor Adam, that only stood upon the strength
of natural abilities; but this covenant was made with the second
Person, with the Eternal Word of God; with Him that was everyways
as holy, as pure, as infinite, as powerful, and as everlasting as
God (Prov 8:22-31; Isa 9:6; Zech 13:7; Phil 2:6; Heb 1; Rev 1:11-17;
22:13,17).

Second. This covenant or bargain was made in deed and in truth
before man was in being. O! God thought of the salvation of man
before there was any transgression of man; for then, I say, and
not since then, was the Covenant of Grace made with the Undertaker
thereof; for all the other sayings are to show unto us that glorious
plot and contrivance that was concluded on before time between
the Father and the Son, which may very well be concluded on for a
truth from the Word of God, if you consider, 1. That the Scripture
doth declare that the price was agreed on by the Son before time;
2. The promise was made to Him by the Father that He should have His
bargain before time; 3. The choice, and who they were that should
be saved was made before time, even before the world began.

1. For the first, That the price was agreed upon before the world
began. Consider the word which speaketh of the price that was paid
for sinners, even the precious blood of Christ; it saith of Him,
"Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but
was manifest in these last times for you, who by Him do believe,"
etc. (1 Peter 1:20,21). Mark, it was foreordained or concluded on
between the Father and the Son before the world began.

2. The promise from God to the Son was also made in the same manner,
as it is clear where the Apostle saith with comfort to his soul,
that he had "hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie,
promised before the world began," (Titus 1:2) which could be to
none but the Mediator of the new covenant, because there was none
else to whom it should be made but He.

3. The choice was also made then, even before man had a being in
this world, as it is evident where he saith, "Blessed be the God
and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all
spiritual blessings in heavenly places IN Christ: according as He
hath chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we
should be holy and without blame before Him in love" (Eph 1:3,4).
[Did I think this would meet with any opposition, I should be in
this more large.] Nay, did I look upon it here to be necessary, I
should show you very largely and clearly that God did not only make
the covenant with Christ before the world began, and the conditions
thereof, but I could also show you that the very saints' qualifications,
as part of the covenant, was then concluded on by the Father and
the Son according to these Scriptures, which, it may be, I may
touch upon further anon (Eph 1:3,4; 2:10; Rom 8:28). But,

Third. This covenant was not made with any of the fathers, neither
in whole nor in part, as the undertakers thereof; for then it must
be also concluded that they are co-partners with Christ in our
salvation, and so that Christ is not Mediator alone; but this would
be blasphemy for any once to surmise. And therefore, by the way,
when thou readest of the new covenant in Scripture as though it
was made with Adam, Noah, Abraham, or David, thou art to consider
thus with thyself--1. That God spake to them in such a way for to
show or signify unto us how He did make the covenant that He did
make with Christ before the world began, they being types of Him.
2. That He thereby might let them understand that He was the same
then as He is now, and now as He was then; and that then it was
resolved on between His Son and HIM, that in after ages His Son
should in their natures, from their loins, and for their sins, be
born of a woman, hanged on the Cross, etc., for them: for all along
you may see that when He speaketh to them of the new covenant, He
mentions their seed--their seed--still aiming at Christ; Christ,
the Seed of the woman, was to break the serpent's head (Gen 3:15;
17; Psa 89:36). Now to Abraham and his Seed was the promise made;
his Seed shall endure for ever, and His throne as the days of
Heaven, etc.; still pointing at Christ. And, 3. To stir up their
faith and expectations to be constant unto the end in waiting for
that which He and His Son had concluded on before time, and what He
had since the conclusion declared unto the world by the Prophets.
4. It appeareth that the heart of God was much delighted therein
also, as is evident, in that He was always in every age declaring
of that unto them which before He had prepared for them. O this
good God of Heaven!

Objection: But you will say, perhaps, the Scriptures say plainly
that the new covenant was and is made with believers, saying, "The
days come, saith the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with
the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah; not according to
the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I led
them out of the land of Egypt," etc. (Heb 8:8-10). So that it doth
not run with Christ alone, but with believers also--I will make a
new covenant with the house of Israel and Judah, etc. (Jer 31:33).

Answer first: It cannot be meant that the new covenant was made
with Christ, and the house of Israel and Judah as the undertakers
thereof; for so it was made with Christ alone, which is clear, in
that it was made long before the house of Israel and Judah had a
being, as I showed before. But,

Answer second: These words here are spoken, first, to show rather
the end of the ceremonies than the beginning or rise of the new
covenant. Mind a little; the Apostle is labouring to beat the Jews,
to whom he wrote this Epistle, off of the ceremonies of the law,
of the priests, altar, offerings, temple, etc., and to bring them
to the right understanding of the thing and things that they held
forth, which were to come, and to put an end to those. If you do
but understand the Epistle to the Hebrews, it is a discourse that
showeth that the Son of God being come, there is an end put to the
ceremonies; for they were to continue so long and no longer--"It,"
saith the Apostle, "stood in meats and drinks, and divers washings,
and carnal ordinances imposed on them until the time of reformation";
that is, until Christ did come. "But Christ being come an high
priest of good things to come," etc., puts an end to the things
and ordinances of the Levitical priesthood. Read the 7th, 8th, 9th,
and 10th Chapters of Hebrews, and you will find this true. So,
then, when He saith, "The days come in which I make a new covenant,"
it is rather to be meant a changing of the administration, taking
away the type, the shadow, the ceremonies from the house of Israel
and Judah, and relieving by the birth of Christ, and the death of
Christ, and the offering of the body of Him whom the shadows and
types did point out to be indeed He whom God the Father had given
for a ransom by covenant for the souls of the saints; and also to
manifest the truth of that covenant which was made between the Father
and the Son before the world began; for though the new covenant
was made before the world began, and also every one in all ages was
saved by the virtue of that covenant, yet that covenant was never
so clearly made manifest as at the coming, death, and resurrection
of Christ; and therefore, saith the Scripture, "He hath brought
life and immortality to light through the Gospel." "Who hath saved
us, and called us with an holy calling" not according to the
"works" of righteousness which we have done, "but according to His
own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before
the world began," there is the covenant, but it was "made MANIFEST
by the APPEARING of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished
death, and brought life and immortality to LIGHT through the Gospel"
(2 Tim 1:9,10). Therefore, I say, these words are therefore to
discover that the time was come to change the dispensation, to take
away the type, and bring in the substance, and so manifesting that
more clearly which before lay hid in dark sayings and figures. And
this is usual with God to speak in this manner.

Again; if at any time you do find in Scripture that the Covenant
of Works is spoken of as the first covenant that was manifested,
and so before the second covenant, yet you must understand that
it was so only as to manifestation--that is, it was first given to
man, yet not made before that which was made with Christ; and indeed
it was requisite that it should be given or made known first, that
thereby there might be a way made for the second, by its discovering
of sin, and the sad state that man was in after the Fall by reason
of that. And again, that the other might be made the more welcome
to the sons of men. Yet the second Adam was before the first, and
also the second covenant before the first. [This is a riddle]. And
in this did Christ in time most gloriously answer Adam, who was
the figure of Christ, as well as of other things. Romans 5. For,
Was the first covenant made with the first Adam? so was the second
covenant made with the second; for these are and were the two
great public persons, or representators of the whole world, as to
the first and second covenants; and therefore you find God speaking
on this wise in Scripture concerning the new covenant--"My covenant
shall stand fast with HIM." "My mercy will I keep for HIM for
evermore," saith God: "My covenant shall stand fast with HIM" (Psa
89:28,34,35); this HIM is Christ, if you compare this with Luke
1:32, "My covenant will I not break"--namely, that which was made
with HIM--"nor alter the thing that is gone out of My mouth. Once I
have sworn by My holiness that I will not lie unto David," [David
here is to be understood Christ.] to whom this was spoken figuratively
in the Person of Christ; for that was God's usual way to speak of
the glorious things of the Gospel in the time of the Law, as I said
before.

The conditions of the new covenant.

The conditions also were concluded on and agreed to be fulfilled
by Him: as it is clear, if you understand His saying in the 12th
of John, at the 27th verse, where He foretelleth His death, and
saith, "Now is My soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father,
save Me from this hour: but for this cause came I" into the world
"unto this hour"; as if He had said, My business is now not to
shrink from My sufferings that are coming upon Me; for these are
the things that are a great part of the conditions contracted in
the covenant which stands between My Father and Me; therefore I
shall not pray that this might be absolutely removed from Me; For,
"for this cause came I" into the world; even this was the very
terms of the covenant. By this you may see, "we are under grace."

Now in a covenant there are these three things to be considered--First.
What it is that is covenanted for. Second. The conditions upon
which the persons who are concerned in it do agree. Third. If the
conditions on both sides be not according to the agreement fulfilled,
then the covenant standeth not, but is made void. And this new
covenant in these particulars is very exactly fulfilled and made
out in Christ.

First. The thing or things covenanted for was the salvation of
man, but made good in Christ--"The Son of Man is come to seek and
to save that which was lost. The Son of Man did not come to destroy
men's lives, but to save them. I gave My life a ransom for many.
And this is the will," or covenant, "of Him that sent Me, that of
all which He hath given Me, I should lose nothing, but should raise
it up again at the last day" (John 6:39).

Second. As touching the conditions agreed on, they ran thus--1. On
the Mediator's side, that He should come into the world; and then
on the Father's side, that He should give Him a body. This was one
of the glorious conditions between the Father and Christ; "Wherefore,
when He cometh into the world, He saith, Sacrifice and offering
Thou wouldest not"--that is, the old covenant must not stand, but
give way to another sacrifice which Thou hast prepared, which is
the giving up My Manhood to the strokes of Thy justice--"for a body
Thou hast prepared Me" (Heb 10:5). This doth prove us under grace.

2. On the Mediator's side, that He should be put to death; and on
God the Father's side, that He should raise Him up again; this was
concluded on also to be done between God the Father and His Son
Jesus Christ. On Christ's side, that He should die to give the
justice of His Father satisfaction, and so to take away the curse
that was due to us, wretched sinners, by reason of our transgressions;
and that God His Father, being every ways fully and completely
satisfied, should by His mighty power revive and raise Him up again.
He hath "brought again--our Lord Jesus"; that is, from death to life,
through the virtue or effectual satisfaction that He received from
the blood that was shed according to the terms "of the Everlasting
Covenant" (Heb 13:20).

3. On the Mediator's side, that He should be made a curse; and on
the Father's side, that through Him sinners should be inheritors
of the blessing. What wonderful love doth there appear by this in
the heart of our Lord Jesus, in suffering such things for our poor
bodies and souls? (Gal 3:13,14). This is grace.

4. That on the Mediator's side there should be by Him a victory
over Hell, death, and the devil, and the curse of the Law; and on
the Father's side, that these should be communicated to sinners,
and they set at liberty thereby--"Turn you to the stronghold,"
saith God, "ye prisoners of hope; even today do I declare that I
will render double unto thee" (Zech 9:12). Why so? It is because of
the blood of My Son's covenant (Verse 11); which made Paul, though
sensible of a body of death, and of the sting that death did strike
into the souls of all those that are found in their sins, bold to
say, "O death! where is thy sting? O grave! where is thy victory?
The sting of death is sin." That is true, and the terrible Law of
God doth aggravate and set it home with insupportable torment and
pain. But shall I be daunted at this? No, "I thank my God through
Jesus Christ He hath given me this victory." So that now, though
I be a sinner in myself, yet I can, by believing in Jesus Christ,
the Mediator of this new covenant, triumph over the devil, sin,
death, and Hell; and say, Do not fear, my soul, seeing the victory
is obtained over all my enemies through my Lord Jesus Christ (1
Cor 15:55-57). This is the way to prove ourselves under grace.

5. That on the Mediator's side He should by thus doing bring in
everlasting righteousness for saints (Dan 9:24); and that the Father
for this should give them an everlasting kingdom (1 Peter 1:3-5;
Eph 1:4; 2 Tim 4:18; Luke 22:28,29). But,

Third. [How the conditions are fulfilled]. In the next place, this
was not all--that is, the Covenant of Grace, with the conditions
thereof, was not only concluded on by both parties to be done, but
Jesus Christ [Christ is put into office by the Father, to do all
things contained in the new covenant]. must be authorized to do
what was concluded on touching this covenant by way of office. I
shall therefore speak a word or two also touching the offices, at
least, some of them, that Christ Jesus did and doth still execute
as the Mediator of the new covenant, which also were typed out in
the Levitical law; for this is the way to prove that we are not
under the law, but under grace. And,

Christ is the Surety of the new covenant.

FIRST. His first office, after the covenant was made and concluded
upon, was that Jesus should become bound as a Surety, [His Suretyship].
and stand engaged upon oath to see that all the conditions of the
covenant that were concluded on between Him and His Father should,
according to the agreement, be accomplished by Him; and that after
that, He should be the Messenger from God to the world to declare
the mind of God touching the tenor and nature of both the covenants,
especially of the new one. The Scripture saith, that Jesus Christ
was not only made a priest by an oath, but also a Surety, or
bondsman, as in Hebrews 7:21, 22. In the 21st Verse he speaketh of
the priesthood of Christ, that it was with an oath; and saith, in
the 22nd Verse, "By so much" also "was Jesus made a Surety of a
better testament," or covenant.

Now the covenant was not only made on Jesus Christ's side with an
oath, but also on God the Father's side, that it might be for the
better ground of establishment to all those that are, or are to be,
the children of the promise. Methinks it is wonderful to consider
that the God and Father of our souls, by Jesus Christ, should be
so bent upon the salvation of sinners, that He would covenant with
His Son Jesus for the security of them, and also that there should
pass an oath on both sides for the confirmation of Their resolution
to do good. As if the Lord had said, My Son, Thou and I have here
made a covenant, that I on My part should do thus and thus, and
that Thou on Thy part shouldst do so and so. Now that We may give
these souls the best ground of comfort that may be, there shall
pass an oath on both sides, that Our children may see that We do
indeed love them. "Wherein God, willing more abundantly to show
unto the heirs of promise the immutability of His counsel," in
making of the covenant, "confirmed it by an oath: that we might
have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon
the hope set before us" (Heb 6:17,18; 7:21). Mark, the 6th Chapter
saith, God confirmed His part by an oath; and the 7th saith, Christ
was made or set on His office also by an oath. Again, "Once,"
saith God, "have I sworn by My holiness, that I will not lie unto
David," "nor alter the thing that is gone out of My mouth," (Psa
89:34,35) as was before cited.

Herein you may see that God and Christ were in good earnest about
the salvation of sinners; for as soon as ever the covenant was made,
the next thing was, who should be bound to see all those things
fulfilled which were conditioned on between the Father and the
Son: the angels, they could have no hands in it; the world could
not do it; the devils had rather see them damned than they would
wish them the least good; thus Christ looked, and there was none
to help; though the burden lay never so heavy upon His shoulder,
He must bear it Himself; for there was none besides Himself to
uphold, or so much as to step in to be bound, to see the conditions,
before mentioned, fulfilled neither in whole nor in part (Isa
63:1-7). So that He must not be only He with whom the covenant was
made, but He must also become the bondsman or surety thereof, and
so stand bound to see that all and every particular thing conditioned
for should be, both in manner, and matter, at the time and place,
according to the agreement, duly and orderly fulfilled. Is not this
grace?

Now as touching the nature of a surety and his work, in some things
it is well known to most men; therefore I shall be very brief upon
it.

First. You know a surety is at the bargain's making; and so was
Christ--"Then was I beside Him" (Prov 8:30).

Second. A surety must consent to the terms of the agreement, or
covenant; and so did Christ Jesus. Now that which He did engage
should be done for sinners, according to the terms of the covenant;
it was this--1. That there should be a complete satisfaction given
to God for the sins of the world; for that was one great thing
that was agreed upon when the covenant was made (Heb 10:5,17). 2.
That Jesus Christ should, as aforesaid, bring in an everlasting
righteousness to clothe the saints (His body) withal (Dan 9:24,25).
Here is grace. 3. That He should take in charge to see all those
forthcoming without spot or wrinkle at the day of His glorious
appearing from Heaven in judgment, and to quit them before the
Judgment-seat. Again,

Third. In the work of a surety there is required by the creditor
that the surety should stand to what he is bound; and on the surety's
side there is a consenting thereunto. 1. The creditor looks, that
in case the debtor proves a bankrupt, that then the surety should
engage the payment. Is not this grace? [However it is in other
engagements, it is thus in this]. 2. The creditor looks that the
surety should be an able man. Now our Surety was, and is, in this
case, every way suitable; for He is heir of all things. 3. The
creditor appoints the day, and also looks that the covenant should
be kept, and the debt paid, according to the time appointed; and it
is required of sureties, as well as stewards, that they be found
faithful--namely, to pay the debt according to the bargain; and
therefore it is said, "When the fullness of the time was come, God
sent forth His Son--made under the law, to redeem them that were
under the law," (Gal 4:4,5). Thus comes grace to saints. 4. The
creditor looks that his money should be brought into his house, to
his own habitation. Jesus, our Surety, in this also is faithful;
for by His own blood, which was the payment, He is entered into the
holy place, even into Heaven itself, which is God's dwelling-place,
to render the value and price that was agreed upon for the salvation
of sinners. But I shall speak more of this in another head, therefore
I pass it. Again,

Fourth. If the surety stands bound, the debtor is at liberty; and
if the law do issue out any process to take any, it will be the
surety. [Though the debtor, together with the surety, is liable to
pay the debt by the law of man, yet Christ our Surety only by the
Covenant of Grace]. And, O! how wonderfully true was this accomplished
in that, when Christ our Surety came down from Heaven, God's Law
did so seize upon the Lord Jesus, and so cruelly handle Him, and
so exact upon Him, that it would never let Him alone until it had
accused Him and condemned Him, executed Him, and screwed His very
heart's blood out of His precious heart and side; nay, and more
than this too, as I shall show hereafter. But,

Christ the Messenger of the new covenant.

SECOND. [His second office]. After that Jesus Christ had stood bound,
and was become our Surety in things pertaining to this covenant,
His next office was to be the Messenger of God touching His mind
and the tenor of the covenant unto the poor world; and this did the
Prophet foresee long before, when he saith, "Behold, I will send
My messenger, and he shall prepare the way before Me"; speaking
of John the Baptist. "And he shall prepare the way before Me." And
then He speaketh of Christ to the people, saying, "And the Lord
whom ye seek shall suddenly come to His temple." Who is He? Even
the Messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in, that is Christ.
"Behold, He shall come, saith the LORD of Hosts" (Mal 3:1).

Now the covenant being made before between the Father and the Son,
and Jesus Christ becoming bound to see all the conditions fulfilled,
this being done, He could come down from Heaven to earth, to declare
to the world what God the Father and HE had concluded on before,
and what was the mind of the Father towards the world concerning
the salvation of their souls; and indeed, who could better come on
such an errand than He that stood by when the covenant was made?
than He that shook hands with the Father in making of the covenant?
than He that was become a Surety in the behalf of poor sinners,
according to the terms of the covenant.

Now, you know, a messenger commonly when he cometh, doth bring
some errand to them to whom he is sent, either of what is done
for them, or what they would have them whom they send unto do for
them, or such like. Now what a glorious message was that which
our Lord Jesus Christ came down from Heaven withal to declare unto
poor sinners, and that from God His Father? I say, how glorious
was it; and how sweet is it to you that have seen yourselves lost
by nature? and it will also appear a glorious one to you who are a
seeking after Jesus Christ, if you do but consider these following
things about what He was sent--

First. Jesus Christ was sent from Heaven to declare unto the world
from God the Father that He was wonderfully filled with love to poor
sinners. First, in that He would forgive their sins. Secondly, in
that He would save their souls. Thirdly in that He would make them
heirs of His glory. "For God so loved the world, that He gave His
only begotten Son.--For God sent not His Son into the world to
condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved"
(John 3:16,17).

Second. God sent Jesus Christ to tell the poor world how that He
would do this for poor sinners, and yet be just, and yet do His
justice no wrong; and that was to be done by Jesus Christ's dying
of a cursed death in the room of poor sinners, to satisfy justice,
and make way for mercy; to take away the stumbling-blocks, and set
open Heaven's gates; to overcome Satan, and break off from sinners
his chains (Luke 4:18) to set open the prison doors, and to let
the prisoners go free (Isa 61:1-3). And this was the message that
Christ was to deliver to the world by commandment from His Father;
and this did He tell us when He came of His errand, where he saith,
"I lay down My life for the sheep--no man taketh it from Me, but
I lay it down of Myself. I have power to lay it down, and to take
it again. This commandment have I received of My Father" (John
10:15-18). Even this commandment hath My Father given Me, that I
should both do this thing and also tell it unto you.

Third. He was not only sent as a Messenger to declare this His
father's love, but also how dearly He himself loved sinners, what a
heart He had to do them good, where He saith, "All that the Father
giveth Me shall come to Me"; and let me tell you, MY heart too,
saith Christ--"Him that cometh to Me, I will in no wise cast out"
(John 6:37). As My Father is willing to give you unto Me, even so
am I as willing to receive you. As My Father is willing to give
you Heaven, so am I willing to make you fit for it, by washing you
with My own blood; I lay down My life that you might have life;
and this I was sent to tell you of My Father.

Fourth. His message was further; He came to tell them how and
which way they should come to enjoy these glorious benefits; also
by laying down motives to stir them up to accept of the benefits.
The way is laid down in John 3:14,15, where Christ saith, "As Moses
lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of
Man be lifted up," or caused to be hanged on the Cross, and die
the death--"that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but
have everlasting life." The way, therefore, that thou shalt have the
benefit and comfort of that which My Father and I have covenanted
for, for thee, I am come down from Heaven to earth on purpose to
give thee intelligence, and to certify thee of it. Know, therefore,
that as I have been born of a woman, and I have taken this Body
upon Me, it is on purpose that I might offer it up upon the Cross
a sacrifice to God, to give Him satisfaction for thy sins, that
His mercy may be extended to thy soul, without any wrong done to
justice; and this thou art to believe, and not in the notion but
from thy very whole soul. Now the motives are many. 1. If they do
not leave their sins, and come to Jesus Christ, that their sins may
be washed away by His blood, they are sure to be damned in Hell;
for the law hath condemned them already (John 3:18,19). 2. But if
they do come, they shall have the bosom of Christ to lie in, the
Kingdom of Heaven to dwell in, the angels and saints for their
companions, shall shine there like the sun, shall be there for
ever, shall sit upon the thrones of judgment, etc. Here is grace.

Methinks if I had but the time to speak fully to all things
that I could speak to from these two heavenly truths, and to make
application thereof, surely, with the blessing of God, I think
it might persuade some vile and abominable wretch to lay down his
arms that he hath taken up in defiance against God, and is marching
Hellwards, post-haste with the devil; I say, methinks it should stop
them, and make them willing to look back and accept of salvation
for their poor condemned souls, before God's eternal vengeance is
executed upon them. O, therefore! you that are upon this march, I
beseech you consider a little. What! shall Christ become a drudge
for you; and will you be drudges for the devil? Shall Christ covenant
with God for the salvation of sinners; and shall sinners covenant
with Hell, death, and the devil for the damnation of their souls?
Shall Christ come down from Heaven to earth to declare this
to sinners; and shall sinners stop their ears against these good
tidings? Will you not hear the errand of Christ, although He telleth
you tidings of peace and salvation? How, if He had come, having
taken a commandment from His Father to damn you, and to send you
to the devils in Hell? Sinner, hear His message; He speaketh no
harm, His words are Eternal Life; all men that give ear unto them,
they have eternal advantage by them; advantage, I say, that never
hath an end. Besides, do but consider these two things, it is like
they have some sway upon thy soul--1. When He came on His message,
He came with tears in His eyes, and did even weepingly tender the
terms of reconciliation to them; I say, with tears in his eyes. And
when He came near the city--i.e., with His message of peace--beholding
the hardness of their hearts, He wept over it, and took up a
lamentation over it; because He saw they rejected His mercy, which
was tidings of peace; I say, wilt thou then slight a weeping Jesus,
One that so loveth thy soul that, rather than He will lose thee, He
will with tears persuade with thee? 2. Not only so, but also when
He came, He came all on a gore blood to proffer mercy to thee, to
show thee still how dearly He did love thee; as if He had said,
Sinner, here is mercy for thee; but behold My bloody sweat, My
bloody wounds, My cursed death; behold and see what danger I have
gone through to come unto thy soul; I am come indeed unto thee,
and do bring thee tidings of salvation, but it cost Me My heart's
blood before I could come at thee, to give thee the fruits of My
everlasting love. But more of this anon.

Thus have I spoken something concerning Christ's being the Messenger
of the new covenant; but because I am not willing to cut too short
of what shall come after, I shall pass by these things not half
touched, and come to the other which I promised even now; which was
to show you, that as there were Levitical ceremonies in or belonging
to the first covenant, so these types, or Levitical ceremonies,
did represent the glorious things of the new covenant. In those
ceremonies you read of a sacrifice, of a priest to offer up the
sacrifice, the place where, and the manner how, he was to offer
it; of which I shall speak something.

Christ the sacrifice of the new covenant.

THIRD. [A third office of Christ, in reference to the new covenant,
was His becoming the sacrifice]. As touching the sacrifice; you
find that it was not to be offered up of all kind of beasts, as of
lions, bears, wolves, tigers, dragons, serpents, or such like; to
signify, that not all kind of creatures that had sinned, as devils,
the fallen angels, should be saved; but the sacrifice was to be
taken out of some kind of beasts and birds, to signify, that some
of God's creatures that had sinned He would be pleased to reconcile
them to Himself again; as poor fallen man and woman, those miserable
creatures, God, the God of Heaven, had a good look for after their
fall; but not for the cruel devils, though more noble creatures by
creation than we. Here is grace.

Now though these sacrifices were offered, yet they were not offered
to the end they should make the comers to, or offerers thereof,
perfect; but the things were to represent to the world what God
had in after ages for to do, which was even the salvation of His
creatures by that offering of the body of Jesus Christ, of which
these were a shadow and a type for the accomplishing of the second
covenant. For Christ was by covenant to offer a sacrifice, and that
an effectual one too, if He intended the salvation of sinners--"A
body hast Thou prepared for Me; I am come to do Thy will" (Heb
10:5). I shall therefore show you, First. What was expected by God
in the sacrifice in the type, and then show you how it was answered
in the antitype. Second. I shall show you the manner of the offering
of the type, and so answerable thereto to show you the fitness
of the sacrifice of the body of Christ, by way of answering some
questions.

First. For the first of these, [What was expected by God in the
sacrifice in the type, and how answered in the antitype]--1. God
did expect that sacrifice which He Himself had appointed, and not
another, to signify, that none would serve His turn but the body
and soul of His appointed Christ, the Mediator of the new covenant
(John 1:29). 2. This sacrifice must not be lame nor deformed; it
must have no scar, spot, or blemish; to signify, that Jesus Christ
was to be a complete sacrifice by covenant (1 Peter 1:19). 3. This
sacrifice was to be taken out of the flock or herd; to signify, that
Jesus Christ was to come out of the race of mankind, according to
covenant (Heb 10:5). But,

Second. As to the manner of it [The offering of the types, and so
answerable thereto, to show the fitness of the sacrifice of the
body of Christ]--1. The sacrifice, before it was offered, was to
have all the sins of the children of Israel confessed over it; to
signify, that Jesus Christ must bear the sins of all His children
by covenant (Isa 53:4-7; 1 Peter 2:24). "As for Thee also, by the
blood of Thy covenant," in His own body on the tree (Zech 9:11).
2. It must be had to the place appointed--namely, without the camp
of Israel; to signify, that Jesus Christ must be led to the Mount
Calvary (Luke 23:33). 3. The sacrifice was to be killed there; to
signify, that Jesus Christ must and did suffer without the city of
Jerusalem for our salvation. 4. The sacrifice must not only have
its life taken away, but also some of its flesh burned upon the
altar; to signify, that Jesus Christ was not only to die a natural
death, but also that He should undergo the pains and torments of
the damned in Hell. 5. Sometimes there must be a living offering
and a dead offering, as the goat that was killed, and the scape-goat,
the dead bird and the living bird, to signify, that Jesus Christ
must die, and come to life again (Lev 19:4-6). 6. The goat that
was to die was to be the sin-offering; that is, to be offered as
the rest of the sin-offerings, to make an atonement as a type; and
the other goat was to have all the sins of the children of Israel
confessed over him, and then let go into the wilderness, never to
be catched again (Lev 16:7-22). To signify, that Christ's death
was to make satisfaction for sin, and His coming to life again was
to bring in everlasting justification from the power, curse, and
destroying nature of sin (Rom 4:25). 7. The scape-goat was to be
carried by a fit man into the wilderness; to signify that Jesus Christ
should both be fit and able to carry our sins quite a way from us,
so as they should never be laid to our charge again. Here is grace.
8. The sacrifices under the law, commonly part of them must be
eaten; to signify, that they that are saved should spiritually feed
on the body and blood of Jesus Christ, or else they have no life
by Him (Exo 12:5-11; John 6:51-53). 9. This sacrifice must be eaten
with unleavened bread; to signify, that they which love their sins,
that devilish leaven of wickedness, they do not feed upon Jesus Christ. 8

Now of what hath been spoken this is the sum, that there is a
sacrifice under the new covenant, as there were sacrifices under the
old; and that this sacrifice did every way answer that, or those;
indeed, they did but suffer for sin in show, but He in reality;
they are the shadow, but He as the substance. O! when Jesus Christ
did come to make Himself a sacrifice, or to offer Himself for sin,
you may understand that our sins were indeed charged to purpose
upon Him. O! how they scarred his soul, how they brake His body,
insomuch that they made the blood run down His blessed face and from
His precious side; therefore thou must understand these following
things--First, that Jesus Christ by covenant did die for sin.
Secondly, that His death was not a mere natural death, but a "cursed
death," even such an one as men do undergo from God for their sins,
though He Himself had none, even such a death as to endure the very
pains and torments of Hell. O sad pains and inexpressible torments
that this our Sacrifice for sin went under! The pains of His body
were not all; no, but the pains of His soul; for His soul was made
an offering as well as His body, yet all but one sacrifice (Isa
53). [As Christ did not suffer in His body without suffering in
soul, nor yet in soul without His suffering in body; it was because
not the body without the soul, but both the body and soul of the
saints should be for ever saved]. To signify, that the suffering
of Christ was not only a bodily suffering, but a soul suffering;
not only to suffer what man could inflict upon Him, but also to
suffer soul torments that none but God can inflict, or suffer to
be inflicted upon Him. O, the torments of His soul! they were the
torments indeed; His soul was that that felt the wrath of God. "My
soul," saith He, "is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death" (Matt
26:38). "Now is My soul troubled, and what shall I say?" (John
12:27). The rock was not so rent as was His precious soul; there
was not such a terrible darkness on the face of the earth then as
there was on His precious soul. O! the torments of Hell and the
eclipsings of the Divine smiles of God were both upon Him at once;
the devils assailing of Him, and God forsaking of Him, and all
at once! "My God, My God," saith He, "why hast Thou forsaken Me?"
(Matt 27:46). Now in my greatest extremity; now sin is laid upon
Me, the curse takes hold of Me, the pains of Hell are clasped
about Me, and Thou hast forsaken Me. O sad! Sinners, this was not
done in pretence, but in reality; not in show, but in very deed;
otherwise Christ had dissembled, and had not spoken the truth; but
the truth of it His bloody sweat declares, His mighty cries declare,
the things which and for what He suffered declare. Nay, I must
say thus much, that all the damned souls in Hell, with all their
damnations, did never yet feel that torment and pain that did this
blessed Jesus in a little time. Sinner, canst thou read that Jesus
Christ was made an offering for sin, and yet go in sin? Canst thou
hear that the load of thy sins did break the very heart of Christ,
and spill His precious blood? and canst thou find in thy heart
to labour to lay more sins upon His back? Canst thou hear that He
suffered the pains, the fiery flames of Hell, and canst thou find
in thy heart to add to His groans by slighting of His sufferings?
O hard-hearted wretch! how canst thou deal so unkindly with such
a sweet Lord Jesus?

Quest. But why did Christ offer Himself in sacrifice?

Answ. That thou shouldst not be thrown to the very devils.

Quest. But why did He spill His precious blood?

Answ. That thou mightest enjoy the joys of Heaven.

Quest. But why did He suffer the pains of Hell?

Answ. That thou mightest not fry with the devil and damned souls.

Quest. But could not we have been saved if Christ had not died?

Answ. No; for without the shedding of blood there is no remission;
and besides, there was no death that could satisfy God's justice
but His, which is evident, because there was none in a capacity
to die, or that was able to answer an infinite God by His
so suffering but He. 9

Quest. But why did God let Him die?

Answ. He standing in the room of sinners, and that in their names
and natures, God's justice must fall upon Him; for justice takes
vengeance for sin wheresoever it finds it, though it be on His dear
Son. Nay, God favoured His Son no more, finding our sins upon Him,
than He would have favoured any of us; for, should we have died?
so did He. Should we have been made a curse? so was He. Should we
have undergone the pains of Hell? so did He.

Quest. But did He indeed suffer the torments of Hell?

Answ. Yea, and that in such a horrible way too, that it is unspeakable.

Quest. Could He not have suffered without His so suffering? Would
not His dying only of a natural death have served the turn?

Answ. No, in nowise. [1]. The sins for which He suffered called for
the torments of Hell; the conditions upon which He died did call
for the torments of Hell; for Christ did not die the death of a
saint, but the death of a sinner, of a cursed and damned sinner;
because He stood in their room, the law to which He was subjected
called for the torments of Hell; the nature of God's justice could
not bate Him anything; the death which He was to suffer had not
lost its sting; all these being put together do irresistibly declare
unto us that He, as a sacrifice, did suffer the torments of Hell
(Gal 3:13). But, 2. Had He not died and suffered the cursed death,
the covenant had been made void, and His Suretyship would have
been forfeited, and, besides this, the world damned in the flames
of Hell-fire; therefore, His being a sacrifice was one part of the
covenant; for the terms of the covenant were that He should spill
His blood. O blessed Jesus! O blessed grace! (Zech 9:10,11).

Quest. But why, then, is His death so slighted by some?

Answ. Because they are enemies to Him, either through ignorance
or presumption; either for want of knowledge or out of malice; for
surely did they love or believe Him, they could not choose but break
and bleed at heart to consider and to think of Him (Zech 12:10,11.)

Christ the High Priest of the New Covenant.

FOURTH, [A fourth office of Christ under the new covenant is
His priestly]. Thus, passing this, I shall now speak something to
Christ's priestly office. But, by the way, if any should think that
I do spin my thread too long in distinguishing His priestly office
from His being a sacrifice, the supposing that for Christ to be a
priest and a sacrifice is all one and the same thing; and it may
be it is, because they have not thought on this so well as they
should--namely, that as He was a sacrifice He was passive, that is,
led or had away as a lamb to His sufferings (Isaiah 53); but as a
priest He was active--that is, He did willingly and freely give up
His Body to be a sacrifice. "He hath given His life a ransom for
many." This consideration being with some weight and clearness on
my spirit, I was and am caused to lay them down in two particular
heads.

And therefore I would speak something to is this, that as there
were priests under the first covenant, so there is a Priest under
this, belonging to this new covenant, a High Priest, the Chief
Priest; as it is clear where it is said, We "having a high priest
over the house of God" (Heb 3:1; 5:5,10; 7:24-26; 8:1, 4; 10:21).

Now the things that I shall treat upon are these--First, I shall
show you the qualifications required of a priest under the Law;
Second, his office; and, Third, how Jesus Christ did according to
what was signified by those under the law; I say, how He did answer
the types, and where He went beyond them.

First, For his qualifications:--

1. They must be called thereto of God--"No man taketh this honour
unto himself, but he that is called of God, as Aaron" (Heb 5:4).
Now Aaron's being called of God to be a priest signifies that Jesus
Christ is a Priest of God's appointment, such an one that God hath
chosen, likes of, and hath set on work--"Called of God an High
Priest," etc. (Heb 5:10).

2. The priests under the law they must be men, complete, not
deformed--"Speak unto Aaron," saith God to Moses, "saying, Whosoever
he be of thy seed in their generations that hath any blemish, let
him not approach to offer the bread of his God. For whatsoever man
he be that hath a blemish, he shall not approach; a blind man, or
a lame, or he that hath a flat nose, or any thing superfluous, or
a man that is broken-footed, or broken-handed, or crook-backt, or
a dwarf, or that hath a blemish in his eye, or be scurvy, or scabbed,
or hath his stones broken; no man that hath a blemish of the seed
of Aaron the priest shall come nigh to offer the offerings of the
Lord made by fire; he that hath a blemish; he shall not come nigh
to offer the bread of his God" (Lev 21:17-21). What doth all this
signify but that, (1.) He must not be lame, to signify he must not
go haltingly about the work of our salvation. (2.) He must not be
blind, to signify that he must not go ignorantly to work, but he
must be quick of understanding in the things of God. (3.) He must
not be scabbed, to signify that the priest must not be corrupt of
filthy in his office. (4.) In a word, he must be every way complete,
to signify to us that Jesus Christ was to be, and is, most complete
and most perfect in things pertaining to God in reference to His
second covenant.

3. The priests under the law were not to be hard-hearted, but
pitiful and compassionate, willing and ready, with abundance of
bowels, to offer for the people, and to make an atonement for them
(Heb 5:1,2). To signify, that Jesus Christ should be a tender-hearted
High Priest, able and willing to sympathize and be affected with
the infirmities of others, to pray for them, to offer up for them
His precious blood; He must be such an One who can have compassion
on a company of poor ignorant souls, and on them that are out of
the way, to recover them, and to set them in safety (Heb 4:15).
And that He might thus do, He must be a man that had experience of
the disadvantages that infirmity and sin did bring unto those poor
creatures (Heb 2:17).

4. The high priests under the law were not to be shy or squeamish
in case there were any that had the plague or leprosy, scab or
blotches; but must look on them, go to them, and offer for them (Lev
13), all which is to signify, that Jesus Christ should not refuse
to take notice of the several infirmities of the poorest people,
but to teach them, and to see that none of them be lost by reason
of their infirmity, for want of looking to or tending of. 10

This privilege also have we under this second covenant. This is
the way to make grace shine.

5. The high priests under the law they were to be anointed with
very excellent oil, compounded by art (Exo 29:7; 30:30). To signify,
that Jesus, the Great High Priest of this new covenant, would be
in a most eminent way anointed to His priestly office by the Holy
Spirit of the Lord.

6. The priest's food and livelihood in the time of his ministry
was to be the consecrated and holy things (Exo 29:33). To signify,
that it is the very meat and drink of Jesus Christ to do His priestly
office, and to save and preserve His poor, tempted, and afflicted
saints. O what a new-covenant High Priest have we!

7. The priests under the law were to be washed with water (Exo
29:4). To signify, that Jesus Christ should not go about the work
of His priestly office with the filth of sin upon Him, but was
without sin to appear as our High Priest in the presence of His
Father, to execute His priestly office there for our advantage--"For
such a high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled,
separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens" (Heb 7:26).

8. The high priest under the law, before they went into the holy place,
there were to be clothed--with a curious garment, a breastplate, and
an ephod, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle,
and they were to be made of gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet,
and fine linen; and in his garment and glorious ornaments there
must be precious stones, and on those stones there must be written
the names of the children of Israel (read Exodus 28), and all this
was to signify what a glorious High Priest Jesus Christ should be,
and how in the righteousness of God He should appear before God as
our High Priest, to offer up the sacrifice that was to be offered
for our salvation to God His Father. But I pass that.

Second, Now I shall speak to His office. The office of the high
priest in general was twofold. 1. To offer the sacrifice without
the camp. 2. To bring it within the veil--that is, into the holiest
of all, which did type out Heaven.

1. [First part of the high priest's office]. (1.) It was the office
of the priest to offer the sacrifice; and so did Jesus Christ; He
did offer His own Body and Soul in sacrifice. I say, HE did OFFER
it, and not another, as it is written, "No man taketh away My life,
but I lay it down of Myself; I have power to lay it down, and I
have power to take it again" (John 10:17,18). And again it is said,
"When He," Jesus, "had offered up one sacrifice for sin, for ever
sat down on the right hand of God" (Heb 10:12). (2.) The priests
under the law must offer up the sacrifice that God had appointed,
and none else, a complete one without any blemish; and so did our
High Priest, where He saith, "Sacrifice and offering Thou wouldest
not, but a body has Thou prepared Me," and that I will offer (Heb
10:5). (3.) The priest was to take of the ashes of the sacrifice,
and lay them in a clean place; and this signifies, that the Body
of Jesus, after it had been offered, should be laid into Joseph's
sepulchre, as in a clean place, where never any man before was laid
(Lev 6:11, compared with John 19:41,42).

2. [Second part of the high priest's office]. This being one part
of his office, and when this was done, then in the next place he
was, (1.) To put on the glorious garment, when he was to go into
the holiest, and take of the blood, and carry it thither, etc., he
was to put on the holy garment which signifieth the righteousness
of Jesus Christ. (2.) He was in this holy garment, which hath in
it the stones, and in the stones the names of the twelve tribes
of the children of Israel, to appear in the holy place. "And thou
shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names of the
children of Israel: six of their names on one stone, and the other
six names of the rest on the other stone, according to their birth"
(Exo 28:9,10). And this was to signify, that Jesus Christ was to
enter into the holiest, then He was there to bear the names of His
elect in the tables of His heart before the Throne of God and the
Mercy-seat (Heb 12:23). (3.) With this he was to take of the blood
of the sacrifices, and carry it into the holiest of all, which was
a type of Heaven, and there was he to sprinkle the mercy-seat; and
this was to be done by the high priest only; to signify, that none
but Jesus Christ must have this office and privilege, to be the
people's High Priest to offer for them. "But into the second went
the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he
offered for himself, and for the errors of the people" (Heb 9:7).
(4.) He was there to make an atonement for the people with the blood,
sprinkling of it upon the mercy-seat; but this must be done with
much incense. "And Aaron shall bring the bullock of the sin-offering
which is for himself, and for his house, and shall kill the bullock
of the sin-offering which is for himself: and he shall take a censor
full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before the Lord,
and his hands full of sweet incense beaten small, and bring it
within the veil: and he shall put the incense upon the fire before
the Lord, that he cloud of the incense may cover the mercy-seat
that is upon the testimony, that he die not: and he shall take of
the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it with his finger upon the
mercy-seat eastward, and before the mercy-seat shall he sprinkle
of the blood with his finger seven times. Then shall he kill the
goat of the sin-offering, that is for the people, and bring his
blood within the veil, and do with that blood as he did with the
blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy-seat and before
the mercy-seat." (Lev 16:11-15). Now this was for the priest and
the people; all which doth signify that Jesus Christ was after
His death to go into Heaven itself, of which this holy place was a
figure, and there to carry the sacrifice that He offered upon the
Cross into the presence of God, to obtain mercy for the people
in a way of justice (Heb 9). And in that he is said to take his
hands full of sweet incense, it signifies that Jesus Christ was to
offer up His sacrifice in the presence of His Father in a way of
intercession and prayers.

I might have branched these things out into several particulars,
but I would be brief. I say, therefore, the office of the priest
was to carry the blood into the holy place, and there to present
it before the mercy-seat, with his heart full of intercessions for
the people for whom he was a priest (Luke 1:8-11). This is Jesus
Christ's work now in the Kingdom of Glory, to plead His own blood,
the nature and virtue of it, with a perpetual intercession to the
God of Mercy on behalf of us poor miserable sinners (Heb 7:25).

[Comfortable considerations from Christ's intercession]. Now, in the
intercession of this Jesus, which is part of His priestly office,
there are these things to be considered for our comfort--

1. There is a pleading of the virtue of His Blood for them that are
already come in, that they may be kept from the evils of heresies,
delusions, temptations, pleasures, profits, or anything of this
world which may be too hard for them. "Father, I pray not that Thou
shouldest take them out of the world," saith Christ, "but that Thou
shouldest keep them from the evil" (John 17:15).

2. In case the devil should aspire up into the presence of God,
to accuse any of the poor saints, and to plead their backslidings
against them, as he will do if he can, then there is Jesus, our Lord
Jesus, ready in the Court of Heaven, at the right hand of God, to
plead the virtue of His Blood, not only for the great and general
satisfaction that He did give when He was on the Cross, but also
the virtue that is in it now for the cleansing and fresh purging
of His poor saints under their several temptations and infirmities;
as saith the Apostle, "For if when we were enemies we were reconciled
to God by the death of His Son, much more being reconciled, we shall
be saved by His life"--that is, by His intercession (Rom 5:10).

3. The maintaining of grace, also, is by Jesus Christ's intercession,
being the second part of His priestly office. O, had we not a Jesus
at the right hand of God making intercession for us, and to convey
fresh supplies of grace unto us through the virtue of His Blood
being pleaded at God's right hand, how soon would it be with us
as it is with those for whom He prays not at all (John 17:9)? But
the reason why thou standest while others fall, the reason why thou
goest through the many temptations of the world, and shakest them
off from thee, while others are ensnared and entangled therein, it
is because thou hast an interceding Jesus. "I have prayed," saith
He, "that thy faith fail not" (Luke 22:32).

4. It is partly by the virtue of Christ's intercession that the
elect are brought in. There are many that are to come to Christ
which are not yet brought in to Christ: and it is one part of His
work to pray for their salvation too--"Neither pray I for these
alone, but for them also which shall believe," though as yet they
do not believe "on Me," but that they may believe "through their
word" (John 17:20). And let me tell thee, soul, for thy comfort, who
art a-coming to Christ, panting and sighing, as if thy heart would
break, I tell thee, soul, thou wouldst never have come to Christ,
if He had not first, by the virtue of His blood and intercession,
sent into thy heart an earnest desire after Christ; and let me tell
thee also, that it is His business to make intercession for thee,
not only that thou mightest come in, but that thou mightest be
preserved when thou art come in (Compare Heb 7:25; Rom 8:33-39).

5. It is by the intercession of Christ that the infirmities of the
saints in their holy duties are forgiven. Alas, if it were not for
the priestly office of Christ Jesus, the prayers, alms, and other
duties of the saints might be rejected, because of the sin that is
in them; but Jesus being our High Priest, He is ready to take away
the iniquities of our holy things, perfuming our prayers with the
glory of His own perfections; and therefore it is that there is an
answer given to the saints' prayers, and also acceptance of their
holy duties (Rev 8:3,4). "But Christ being come an high priest of
good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not
made with hands, that is to say, not of this building; neither by
the blood of goats and calves, but by His own blood He entered in
once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer
sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh:
how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal
Spirit offered Himself without spot to God, purge your conscience
from dead works to serve the living God? And for this cause He is
the mediator of the New Testament," or covenant, "that by means
of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under
the first testament, they which are called," notwithstanding all
their sins, "might receive the promise of eternal inheritance" (Heb
9:11-15).

Third. The third thing now to be spoken to is, to show where and
how Jesus Christ outwent and goes beyond these priests, in all
their qualifications and offices, for the comfort of poor saints.

1. They that were called to the priesthood under the law were but
men; but He is both God and man (Heb 7:3,28).

2. Their qualifications were in them in a very scanty way; but
Jesus was every way qualified in an infinite and full way.

3. They were consecrated but for a time, but He for evermore (Heb
7:23,24).

4. They were made without an oath, but He with an oath (Verses
20,21).

5. They as servants; but He as a Son (Hebrews 3:6).

6. Their garments were but such as could be made with hands, but
His the very righteousness of God (Exo 28; Rom 3:22; Phil 3:8,9).

7. Their offerings were but the body and blood of beasts, and such
like, but His offering was His own body and soul (Heb 9:12,13;
10:4,5; Isa 53:10).

8. Those were at best but a shadow or type, but He the very substance
and end of all those ceremonies (Heb 9:1,10,11).

9. Their holy place was but made by men, but His, or that which
Jesus is entered, is into Heaven itself (Heb 9:2,3,24).

10. When they went to offer their sacrifice, they were forced to
offer for themselves, as men compassed about with infirmity, but He
holy, harmless, who did never commit the least transgression (Heb
7:26; 10:11).

11. They when they went to offer they were fain to do it standing,
to signify that God had no satisfaction therein; but He, when "He
had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right
hand of God," to signify that God was very well pleased with His
offering (Heb 10:12).

12. They were fain to offer "oftentimes the same sacrifices, which
can never take away sins"; but He, "by one offering hath perfected
for ever them that are sanctified" (Heb 10:11,14).

13. Their sacrifices at the best could but serve for the cleansing
of the flesh, but His for cleansing both body and soul--the blood
of Jesus Christ doth purge the conscience from dead works, to live
a holy life (Heb 9:13,14).

14. Those high priests could not offer but once a year in the holiest
of all, but our High Priest He ever liveth to make intercession
for us (Heb 9:7; 12:24,25).

15. Those high priests, notwithstanding they were priests, they
were not always to wear their holy garments; but Jesus never puts
them off of Him, but is in them always.

16. Those high priests, death would be too hard for them, but our
High Priest hath vanquished and overcome that cruel enemy of ours,
and brought life and immortality to light through the glorious
Gospel (Heb 7:21,23; 2:15; 2 Tim 1:10).

17. Those high priests were not able to save themselves; but this
is able to save Himself, and all that come to God, by Him (Heb
7:25).

18. Those high priests' blood could not do away sin; but the blood
of Jesus Christ, who is our High Priest, "cleanseth us from all
sin" (1 John 1:7).

19. Those high priests sometimes by sin caused God to reject their
sacrifices; but this High Priest doth always the things that please
Him.

20. Those high priests could never convey the Spirit by virtue of
their sacrifices or office; but this High Priest, our Lord Jesus,
He can and doth give all the gifts and graces that are given to
the sons of men.

21. Those high priests could never by their sacrifices bring the
soul of any sinner to glory by virtue of itself; but Jesus hath by
one offering, as I said before, perfected for ever those that He
did die for. Thus in brief I have showed in some particulars how
and wherein Jesus our High Priest doth go beyond those high priests;
and many more without question might be mentioned, but I forbear.

Christ the forerunner of the saints.

FIFTH. A fifth office of Christ in reference to the second covenant
was, that He should be the forerunner to Heaven before His saints
that were to follow after. First, He strikes hands in the covenant,
[and then] He stands bound as a Surety to see everything in the
covenant accomplished that was to be done on His part; [next] He
brings the message from Heaven to the world; and before He goeth
back, He offereth Himself for the same sins that He agreed to suffer
for; and so soon as this was done, He goeth post-haste to Heaven
again, not only to exercise the second part of His priestly office,
but as our forerunner, to take possession for us, even into Heaven
itself, as you may see, where it is said, "Whither the Forerunner
is for us entered" (Heb 6:20).

First. He is run before to open Heaven's gates--Be ye open, ye
everlasting doors, that the King of Glory may enter in.

Second. He is run before us to take possession of glory in our
natures for us.

Third. He is run before to prepare us our places against we come
after--"I go to prepare a place for you" (John 14:1-3).

Fourth. He is run thither to make the way easy, in that He hath
first trodden the path Himself.

Fifth. He is run thither to receive gifts for us. All spiritual
and heavenly gifts had been kept from us had not Christ, so soon
as the time appointed was come, run back to the Kingdom of Glory to
receive them for us. But I cannot stand to enlarge upon these glorious
things, the Lord enlarge them upon your hearts by meditation. [These
things have I spoken to show you that saints are under grace.]

Christ completely fulfilled the conditions of the new covenant.

Here now I might begin to speak of His prophetical and kingly office,
and the privileges that do and shall come thereby, but that I fear
I shall be too tedious, therefore at this time I shall pass them
by. Thus you may see how the Covenant of Grace doth run, and with
Whom it was made, and also what were the conditions thereof.

Now, then, this grace, this everlasting grace of God, comes to be
free to us through the satisfaction, according to the conditions,
given by Another for us; for though it be free, and freely given
to us, yet the obtaining of it did cost our Head, our public Man,
a very dear price. "For ye are bought with a price," even with the
precious blood of Christ. So it is by Another, I say, not by us;
yet it is as surely made over to us, even to so many of us as do
or shall believe, as if we had done it, and obtained the grace of
God ourselves (1 Cor 6:20; 1 Peter 1:9). Nay, surer; for consider,
I say, this grace is free to us, and comes upon a clear score,
by virtue of the labour and purchase of Another for us; mark,
that which is obtained by Another for us is not obtained for us
by ourselves--No, but Christ hath, not by the blood of goats and
calves, "obtained eternal redemption for us," which were things
offered by men under the law, "but by His own blood," meaning
Christ's, "He entered in once into the holy place, having obtained
eternal redemption for us" (Heb 9:12).

It comes to be unchangeable through the perfection of that satisfaction
that was given to God through the Son of Mary for us; for whatever
the Divine, infinite, and eternal justice of God did call for
at the hands of man, if ever he intended to be a partaker of the
grace of God, this Jesus, this one Man, this public Person, did,
did completely give a satisfaction to it, even so effectually; which
caused God not only to say, I am pleased, but "I am well pleased";
completely and sufficiently satisfied with Thee on their behalf;
for so you must understand it (Matt 3:17). Mark therefore these
following words--"And, having made peace," or completely made up
the difference, "through the blood of His cross, by Him to reconcile
all things unto Himself; by Him, I say, whether they be things in
earth, or things in heaven. And you, that were sometime alienated
and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath He reconciled,"
how? "in the body of His flesh through death, to present you holy,"
mark, "holy and unblameable and unreproveable in His sight" (Col
1:20-22). And thus it is grace, unchangeable grace to us; because
it was obtained, yea, completely obtained, for us, by Jesus Christ,
God-man.

Object. But some may say, How was it possible that one man Jesus,
by one offering, should so completely obtain and bring in unchangeable
grace for such an innumerable company of sinners as are to be saved?

Answ. First. In that He was every way fitted for such a work. And,
Second. In that, as I said before, He did every way completely
satisfy that which was offended by our disobedience to the former
covenant.

[First. He was every way fitted for such a work]. And, for the
clearing of this,

1. Consider, was it man that had offended? He was Man that gave
the satisfaction--"For since by man came death, by man came also
the resurrection of the dead" (1 Cor 15:21).

2. Was it God that was offended? He was God that did give a
satisfaction--"Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given.--and
His name shall be called The mighty God" (Isa 9:6). "He thought
it not robbery to be equal with God: but," for our sakes, He "made
Himself of no reputation," etc. (Phil 2:6-7).

3. For the further clearing of this, to show you that in everything
He was rightly qualified for this great work, see what God Himself
saith of Him; He calls Him, in the first place, Man; and, secondly,
He owns Him to be His Fellow, saying, "Awake, O sword, against My
Shepherd, and against the Man"--mark, "the Man that is My Fellow,
saith the LORD of hosts" (Zech 13:7).

So that now, let Divine and infinite justice turn itself which way
it will, it finds one that can tell how to match it; for if it say,
I will require the satisfaction of man, here is a Man to satisfy
its cry; and if it say, But I am an infinite God, and must and will
have an infinite satisfaction; here is One also that is infinite,
even fellow with God, fellow in His essence and being; fellow in
His power and strength; fellow in His wisdom; fellow in His mercy
and grace; together with the rest of the attributes of God; so
that, I say, let justice turn itself which way it will, here is a
complete Person to give a complete satisfaction (Prov 8:23; 1 Cor
1:24; Titus 2:10; compared with Verse 11). Thus much of the fitness
of the Person.

Second. For the completeness of the satisfaction given by Him for
us. And that is discovered in these particulars--

1. Doth justice call for the blood of that nature that sinned? here
is the heart-blood of Jesus Christ--"We have redemption through
His blood," (Eph 1:7,14; 1 Peter 1:18,19; Zech 9:10,11).

2. Doth justice say that this blood, if it be not the blood of One
that is really and naturally God, it will not give satisfaction
to infinite justice? then here is God, purchasing His Church "with
His own blood" (Acts 20:28).

3. Doth justice say, that it must not only have satisfaction for
sinners, but they that are saved must be also washed and sanctified
with this blood? then here is He that so loved us, that He "washed
us from our sins in His own blood" (Rev 1:5).

4. Is there to be a righteousness to clothe them with that is to
be presented before Divine justice? there here is the righteousness
of Christ, which is "even the righteousness of God by faith" (Rom
3:22; Phil 3:8-10).

5. Are there any sins now that will fly upon this Saviour like so
many lions, or raging devils, if He take in hand to redeem man?
He will be content to bear them all Himself alone, even in His own
body upon the tree (1 Peter 2:24).

6. Is there any law now that will curse and condemn this Saviour
for standing in our persons to give satisfaction to God for the
transgression of man? He will be willing to be cursed, yea, to
be made a curse for sinners, rather than they shall be cursed and
damned themselves (Gal 3:13).

7. Must the great and glorious God, whose eyes are so pure that
He cannot behold iniquity; I say, must He not only have the blood,
but the very life of Him that will take in hand to be the Deliverer
and Saviour of us poor miserable sinners? He is willing to lay down
His life for His sheep (John 10:11).

8. Must He not only die a natural death, but must His soul descend
into hell, though it should not be left there, He will suffer that
also Psalms 16:10; and Acts 2:31. 11

9. Must He not only be buried, but rise again from the dead, and
overcome death, that He might be the first-fruits to God of them
that sleep, which shall be saved? He will be buried, and also
through the strength of His Godhead, He will raise Himself out of
the grave, though death hold Him never so fast, and the Jews lay
never such a great stone upon the mouth of the selpulchre, and seal
it never so fast (1 Cor 15:4; Luke 24:34).

10. Must He carry that body into the presence of His Father, to
take possession of Heaven, and must He appear there as a priest,
as a forerunner, as an advocate, as prophet, as a treasure-house,
as an interceder and pleader of the causes of His people? He will
be all these, and much more, to the end the grace of God by faith
in Jesus Christ might be made sure to all the seed. "Who then
can condemn? It is God that justifieth; because Christ hath died,
yea rather, that is risen again." Who, now seeing all this is so
effectually done, shall lay anything, the least thing? who can find
the least flaw, the least wrinkle, the least defect or imperfection,
in this glorious satisfaction (Rom 8:33-34; Heb 6:20; 9:24; John
14:2,3; 1 John 2:1)?

Object. But is it possible that He should so soon give infinite
justice a satisfaction, a complete satisfaction? for the eternal
God doth require an eternal lying under the curse, to the end He
may be eternally satisfied.

Answ. Indeed, that which is infinite must have an eternity to satisfy
God in--that is, they that fall into the prison and pit of utter
darkness must be there to all eternity, to the end the justice of
God may have its full blow at them. But now He that I am speaking
of is God, and so is infinite (Isa 9:6; Titus 1:16,17; Heb 1:8,9;
Phil 2:4-6). Now, He which is true God is able to give in as
little a time an infinite satisfaction as Adam was in giving the
dissatisfaction. Adam himself might have given satisfaction for
himself as soon as Christ had he been very God, as Jesus Christ was.
For the reason why the posterity of Adam, even so many of them as
fall short of life, must lie broiling in Hell to all eternity is
this--they are not able to give the justice of God satisfaction, they
being not infinite, as aforesaid. "But Christ," that is, God-man,
"being come an High Priest," that is, to offer and give satisfaction,
"of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle,
not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building; neither
by the blood of goats and calves, but by His own,"--mark you that,
"but by His own blood He entered in once into the holy place,
having obtained eternal redemption for us." But how? "For if the
blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling
the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh: how much
more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit,"
who through the power and virtue of His infinite Godhead, "offered
Himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works
to serve the living God? And for this cause," that is, for that
He is God as well as man, and so able to give justice an infinite
satisfaction, therefore, "He is the mediator of the new testament,
that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions
that were under the first testament, they which are called might
receive the promise of eternal inheritance" (Heb 9:11-15). As I
said before.

Object. This is much; but is God connected with this? Is He satisfied
now in the behalf of sinners by this Man's thus suffering? If He
is, then how doth it appear?

Answ. It is evident, yea, wonderful evident, that this hath pleased
Him to the full, as appeareth by these following demonstrations.--

First. In that God did admit Him into His presence; yea, receive
Him with joy and music, even with the sound of the trumpet, at His
ascension into Heaven (Psa 47:5). And Christ makes it an argument
to His children that His righteousness was sufficient, in that He
went to His Father, and they saw Him no more, "of righteousness,"
saith He, "because I go to My Father, and ye see Me no more" (John
16:10). As if He had said, My Spirit shall show to the world that
I have brought in a sufficient righteousness to justify sinners
withal, in that when I go to appear in the presence of My Father
on their behalf, He shall give Me entertainment, and not throw Me
down from Heaven, because I did not do it sufficiently.

Again; if you consider the high esteem that God the Father doth set
on the death of His Son, you will find that He hath received good
content thereby. When the Lord Jesus, by way of complaint, told
His Father that He and His merits were not valued to the worth,
His Father answered, It is a light thing that I should give Thee,
O My Servant, to bring Jacob again; "I will also give Thee for a
light to the Gentiles, that Thou mayest be My salvation unto the
end of the earth" (Isa 49:6). As if the Lord had said, "My Son, I
do value Thy death at a higher rate than that Thou shouldst save
the tribes of Israel only; behold the Gentiles, the barbarous
heathens, they also shall be brought in as the price of Thy blood.
It is a light thing that Thou shouldest be My Servant only to bring,
or redeem, the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of
Israel: I will also give Thee for a light to the Gentiles, that
Thou mayest be My salvation unto the end of the earth." 12

Again; you may see it also by the carriage of God the Father to
all the great sinners to whom mercy was proffered. We do not find
that God maketh any objection against them to come to Him for the
pardon of their sins; because He did want a satisfaction suitable
to the greatness of their sins. There was Manasseh, who was one that
burned his children in the fire to the devil, that used witchcraft,
that used to worship the host of heaven, that turned his back on
the Word that God sent unto him; nay, that did worse than the very
heathen that God cast out before the children of Israel (2 Chron
33:1-13). Also those that are spoken of in the Nineteenth of Acts,
that did spend so much time in conjuration, and the like, for such
I judge they were, that when they came to burn their books, they
counted the price thereof to be fifty thousand pieces of silver
(Acts 19:19). Simon Magus also, that was a sorcerer, and bewitched
the whole city, yet he had mercy proffered to him once and again
(Acts 8). I say, it was not the greatness of the sins of these
sinners; no, nor of an innumerable company of others, that made
God at all to object against the salvation of their souls, which
justice would have constrained Him to had He not had satisfaction
sufficient by the blood of the Lord Jesus. Nay, further, I do find
that because God the Father would not have the merits of His Son
to be undervalued, I say, He doth therefore freely by His consent
let mercy be proffered to the greatest sinners--in the first place,
for the Jews, that were the worst of men in that day for blasphemy
against the Gospel; yet the Apostle proffered mercy to them in the
first place--"It was necessary," saith he, "that the Word of God
should first have been spoken to you" (Acts 3:26; 13:46). And Christ
gave them commission so to do; for, saith He, Let repentance and
remission of sins be preached in My name among all nations, and
begin--mark that, "beginning at Jerusalem" (Luke 24:47), Let them
that but the other day had their hands up to the elbows in My
heart's blood have the first proffer of My mercy. And, saith Paul,
"For this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ
might show forth all longsuffering, for a pattern to them which
should hereafter believe on Him to life everlasting" (1 Tim 1:16).
As the Apostle saith, those sinners that were dead, possessed with
the devil, and the children of wrath, He hath quickened, delivered,
and saved. That He might, even in the very "ages to come He might
show the exceeding riches of His grace in His kindness toward us,"
and that "through Christ Jesus" (Eph 2:7).

Second. It is evident that that which this Man did as a common
person He did it completely and satisfactorily, as appears by the
openness, as I may so call it, which was in the heart of God to
Him at His resurrection and ascension--"Ask of Me," saith He, "and
I shall give Thee the" very "heathen for Thine inheritance, and
the uttermost parts of the earth for Thy possession" (Psa 2:8).
And this was at His resurrection (Acts 13:33). Whereas, though He
had asked, yet if He had not given a full and complete satisfaction,
justice would not have given Him any thing; for justice, the justice
of God, is so pure, that if it be not completely satisfied in every
particular, it giveth nothing but curses (Gal 3:10).

Third. It is yet far more evident that He hath indeed pleased
God in the behalf of sinners, in that God hath given Him gifts to
distribute to sinners, yea, the worst of sinners, as a fruit of His
satisfaction, and that at His ascension (Psa 68:18). Christ hath
so satisfied God, that He hath given Him all the treasures both of
Heaven and earth to dispose of as He seeth good; He hath so pleased
God, that He hath given Him a name above every name, a sceptre above
every sceptre, a crown above every crown, a kingdom above every
kingdom; He hath given Him the highest place in Heaven, even His
own right hand; He hath given Him all the power of Heaven and earth,
and under the earth, in His own hand, to bind whom He pleaseth, and
to set free whom He thinks meet; He hath, in a word, such a high
esteem in the eyes of His Father, that He hath put into His hands
all things that are for the profit of His people, both in this
world and that which is to come; and all this as the fruit of
His faithfulness in doing of His work, as the Mediator of the new
covenant (Phil 2:9; Rev 19:6). Thou hast ascended on high, Thou
hast led captivity captive, Thou hast received gifts--mark, Thou
hast received them--for men, even for the worst of men, for the
rebellious also; and hath sent forth some, being furnished with these
gifts; some, I say, for the work of the ministry, to the edifying
of them that are already called, and also for the calling in of
all those for whom He covenanted with His Father, till all come in
the unity of faith, etc. (Eph 4:8-13).

Fourth. It doth still appear yet far more evident; for will you hear
what the Father Himself saith for the showing of His well-pleasedness
in these two particulars--First, in that He bids poor souls to
hear and to do as Christ would have them (Matt 3:17; Luke 9:35).
Secondly, in that He resolves to make them that turn their backs
upon Him, that dishonour Him, which is done in a very great measure
by those that lay aside His merits done by Himself for justification; I
say, He that resolved to make this His footstool, where He saith,
"Sit Thou at My right hand, until I make Thine enemies Thy footstool"
(Psa 110:1). Are they enemies to Thee? saith God. I will be even
with them. Do they slight Thy merits? Do they slight Thy groans,
Thy tears, Thy blood, Thy death, Thy resurrection and intercession,
Thy second coming again in heavenly glory? I will tear them and
rend them; I will make them as mire in the streets; I will make
Thy enemies Thy footstool (Matt 22:44; Heb 1:13; 10:13). Ay, saith
He, and "Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel"
(Psa 2:9). Look to it you that slight the merits of the blood of
Christ.

Fifth. Again further; yet God will make all the world to know that He
hath been and is well pleased in His Son, in that God hath given,
and will make it appear He hath given, the world to come into
His hand; and that He shall raise the dead, bring them before
His judgment-seat, execute judgment upon them, which He pleaseth
to execute judgment on to their damnation; and to receive them to
eternal life whom He doth favour, even so many as shall be found
to believe in His name and merits (Heb 2). "For as the Father
hath life in Himself; so hath He given to the Son to have life in
Himself; and hath given Him authority to execute judgment also,
because He is the Son of man. For the hour is coming, in the which
all that are in the graves shall hear His voice, and shall come
forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life;
and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation"
(John 5:26-29). Ay, and the worst enemy that Christ hath now shall
come at that day with a pale face, with a quaking heart, and bended
knees, trembling before Him, confessing the glory of His merits,
and the virtue there was in them to save, "to the glory of God the
Father" (Rom 14:11; Phil 2:11).

Much more might be added to discover the glorious perfection
of this Man's satisfaction; but for you that desire to be further
satisfied concerning this, search the Scriptures, and beg of God
to give you faith and understanding therein; and as for you that
slight these things, and continue so doing, God hath another way to
take with you, even to dash you in pieces like a potter's vessel;
for this hath Christ received of His Father to do unto you (Rev
2:27).

Thus I have showed you in particular, that the Covenant of Grace
of God is free and unchangeable to men--that is, in that it hath
been obtained for men, and that perfectly, to the satisfying of
justice, and taking all things out of the way that were any ways
a hindrance to our salvation (Col 2:14).

The Covenant of Grace unchangeable; the opposers answered.

The second thing for the discovering of this freeness and constancy
of the Covenant of Grace of God is manifested thus--

First. Whatsoever any man hath of the grace of God, he hath it
as a free gift of God through Christ Jesus the Mediator of this
covenant, even when they are in a state of enmity to Him, whether
it be Christ as the foundation-stone, or faith to lay hold of Him,
mark that (Rom 5:8,9; Col 1:21,22). "For by grace are ye saved
through faith; and that not of yourselves," not for anything in
you, or done by you for the purchasing of it, but "it is the gift
of God," (Eph 2:8) and that bestowed on you, even when ye "were dead
in trespasses and sins" (Eph 2:1,9). Nay, if thou hast so much as
one desire that is right, it is the gift of God; for of ourselves,
saith the Apostle, we are not able to speak a good word, or think
a good thought (2 Cor 3:5).

Was it not grace, absolute grace, that God made promise to Adam
after transgression? (Gen 3:15). Was it not free grace in God to save
such a wretch as Manasseh was, who used enchantments, witchcraft,
burnt his children in the fire, and wrought much evil? (2 Chron
33). Was it not free grace to save such as those were that are
spoken of in the 16th of Ezekiel, which no eye pitied? Was it not
free grace for Christ to give Peter a loving look after he had
cursed, and swore, and denied Him? Was it not free grace that met
Paul when he was agoing to Damascus to persecute, which converted
him, and made him a vessel of mercy?

And what shall I say of such that are spoken of in 1 Corinthians
6:9, 10, speaking there of fornicators, idolaters, adulterers,
effeminate, abusers of themselves with mankind, thieves, covetous,
drunkards, revilers, extortioners, the basest of sinners in the
world, and yet were washed, and yet were justified; was it not
freely by grace? O saints, you that are in heaven cry out, "We came
hither by grace; and you that are on the earth, I am sure you cry,
If ever we do go thither, it must be freely by grace!"

Second. In the next place, it appears to be unchangeable in this--1.
Because justice being once satisfied doth not use to call for the
debt again. No; let never such a sinner come to Jesus Christ, and
so to God by Him, and justice, instead of speaking against the
salvation of that sinner, it will say, I am just as well as faithful
to forgive him his sins (1 John 1:9). When justice itself is pleased
with a man, and speaks on his side, instead of speaking against
him, we may well cry out, Who shall condemn? 2. Because there is
no law to come in against the sinner that believes in Jesus Christ;
for he is not under that, and that by right comes in against none
but those that are under it. But believers are not under that--that
is, not their Lord, therefore that hath nothing to do with them;
and besides, Christ's blood hath not only taken away the curse
thereof, but also He hath in His own Person completely fulfilled
it as a public Person in our stead. (Rom 7:1-4). 3. The devil that
accused them is destroyed (Heb 2:14,15). 4. Death, and the grave,
and Hell are overcome (1 Cor 15:55; Hosea 13:14). 5. Sin, that
great enemy of man's salvation, that is washed away (Rev 1:5). 6.
The righteousness of God is put upon them that believe, and given
to them, and they are found in it (Phil 3:8-10; Rom 3:22). 7. Christ
is always in Heaven to plead for them, and to prepare a place for
them (Heb 7:24; John 14:1-4). 8. He hath not only promised that
He will not leave us, nor forsake us, but He hath also sworn to
fulfill His promises. O rich grace! O free grace! Lord, who desired
Thee to promise? who compelled Thee to swear? We use to take honest
men upon their bare word, but God, "willing more abundantly to show
unto the heirs of promise the immutability of His counsel," hath
"confirmed it by an oath: that by two immutable things," His promise
and His oath, "in which it was impossible for God to lie," or break
either of them, "we might have a strong consolation, who have fled
for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us" (Heb 6:17-18).
I will warrant you, God will never break His oath; therefore we
may well have good ground to hope from such a good foundation as
this, that God will never leave us indeed. Amen.

Third. Not only thus, but, 1. God hath begotten believers again to
Himself, to be His adopted and accepted children, in and through
the Lord Jesus (1 Peter 1:3). 2. God hath prepared a kingdom for
them before the foundation of the world, through Jesus Christ (Matt
25:34). 3. He hath given them an earnest of their happiness while
they live here in this world. "After that ye believed, ye were
sealed with that holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest of
our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession,
unto the praise of His glory," and that through this Jesus (Eph
1:13,14). [These things are more fully laid down in that part of
the book which containeth the discourse of the privileges of the new
covenant]. 4. If His children sin through weakness, or by sudden
temptation, they confessing of it, He willingly forgives, and heals
all their wounds, reneweth His love towards them, waits to do them
good, casteth their sins into the depths of the sea, and all this
freely, without any work done by men as men--Not for your own sakes
do I do this, O house of Israel, be it known unto you, saith the
Lord, but wholly and alone by the blood of Jesus (Eze 36:23,23).
5. In a word, if you would see it altogether, God's love was the
cause why Jesus Christ was sent to bleed for sinners. Jesus Christ's
bleeding stops the cries of Divine justice; God looks upon them
as complete in Him, gives them to Him as His by right of purchase.
Jesus ever lives to pray for them that are thus given unto Him.
God sends His Holy Spirit into them to reveal this to them, sends
His angels to minister for them; and all this by virtue of an
Everlasting Covenant between the Father and the Son. Thrice happy
are the people that are in such a case!

Nay, further, He hath made them brethren with Jesus Christ, members
of His flesh and of His bones, the spouse of this Lord Jesus; and
all to show you how dearly, how really, how constantly He loveth
us, who, by faith of His operation, have laid hold upon Him. [These
things I might have treated upon more largely].

[Further Arguments and Objections answered].

I shall now lay down a few arguments for the superabundant clearing
of it, and afterwards answer two or three objections that may be
made against it, and so I shall fall upon the next thing.

First. God loves the saints as He loves Jesus Christ; and God loves
Jesus Christ with an eternal love; therefore the saints also with
the same. "Thou hast loved them as Thou has loved Me" (John 17:23).

Second. That love which is God Himself, must needs be everlasting
love; and that is the love wherewith God hath loved His saints in
Christ Jesus; therefore His love towards His children in Christ
must needs be an everlasting love. There is none dare say that the
love of God is mixed with a created mixture; if not, then it must
needs be Himself (1 John 4:16). [You must not understand that love
in God is a passion as it is in us; but the love of God is the very
essence or nature of God].

Third. That love which is always pitched upon us, in an object as
holy as God, must needs be an everlasting love. Now the love of
God was and is pitched upon us, through an object as holy as God
Himself, even our Lord Jesus; therefore it must needs be unchangeable.

Fourth. If He with whom the Covenant of Grace was made, did in every
thing and condition do even what the Lord could desire or require
of Him, that His love might be extended to us, and that for ever,
then His love must needs be an everlasting love, seeing everything
required of us was completely accomplished for us by Him; and all
this hath our Lord Jesus done, and that most gloriously, even on
our behalf; therefore it must needs be a love that lasts for ever
and ever.

Fifth. If God hath declared Himself to be the God that changeth
not, and hath sworn to be immutable in His promise, then surely He
will be unchangeable; and He hath done so; therefore it is impossible
for God to lie, and so for His eternal love to be changeable (Heb
6:13-18). Here is an argument of the Spirit's own making! Who can
contradict it? If any object, and say, But still it is upon the
condition of believing--I answer, The condition also is His own
free gift, and not a qualification arising from the stock of nature
(Eph 2:8; Phil 1:28,29). So that here is the love unchangeable;
here is also the condition given by Him whose love is unchangeable,
which may serve yet further for a strong argument that God will
have His love unchangeable. Sinner, this is better felt and enjoyed
than talked of.

Objection First. But if this love of God be unchangeable in itself,
yet it is not unchangeably set upon the saints unless they behave
themselves the better. [The first objection].

Answ. As God's love at the first was bestowed upon the saints
without anything foreseen by the Lord in them, as done by them,
Deuteronomy 9:4-6, so He goeth on with the same, Saying, "I will
never leave thee nor forsake thee" (Heb 13:5).

Objection Second. But how cometh it to pass then, that many fall
off again from the grace of the Gospel, after a profession of it
for some time; some to delusions, and some to their own sins again?
[The second objection].

Answ. They are all fallen away, not from the everlasting love of
God to them, but from the profession of the love of God to them.
Men may profess that God loves them when there is no such matter,
and that they are the children of God, when the devil is their
father; as it is in John 8:40-44. Therefore they that do finally
fall away from a profession of the grace of the Gospel, it is,
first, because they are bastards and not sons. Secondly, because
as they are not sons, so God suffereth them to fall, to make it
appear that they are not sons, not of the household of God--"They
went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of
us, they would no doubt," mark that, "no doubt," saith he, "they
would have continued with us: but they went out," from us, "that
they might be made manifest that they were not all of us" (1 John
2:19). And though Hymeneus and Philetus do throw themselves headlong
to Hell, "nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having
this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are His" (2 Tim 2:17-19).

Objection Third. But the Scripture saith that there are some that
had faith, yet lost it, and have made shipwreck of it. [The third
objection]. Now God loves no longer than they believe, as is evident;
for "he that believeth not shall be damned." So then, if some may
have faith, and yet lose it, and so lose the love of God because
they have lost their faith, it is evident that God's love is not
so immutable as you say it is to every one that believeth.

Answ. There are more sorts of faith than one that are spoken of in
Scripture--

1. There is a faith that man may have, and yet be nothing, none
of the saints of God, and yet may do great things therewith (1 Cor
13:1-4).

2. There is a faith that was wrought merely by the operation
of the miracles that were done in those days by Christ and his
followers--"And many of the people believed in Him." How came they
by their faith? Why, by the operation of the miracles that He did
among them; for said they, "When Christ cometh, will He do more
miracles than these which this man hath done?" (John 7:31).

The great thing that wrought their faith in them, was only by seeing
the miracles that He did, John 2:23, which is not that saving faith
which is called the faith of God's elect, as is evident; for there
must not be only miracles wrought upon outward objects to beget
that--that being too weak a thing--but it must be by the same power
that was stretched out in raising Christ from the dead; yea, the
exceeding greatness of that power (Eph 1:18,19). So there is a
believing, being taken with some marvelous work, visibly appearing
to the outward sense of seeing; and there is a believing that
is wrought in the heart by an invisible operation of the Spirit,
revealing the certainty of the satisfaction of the merits of
Christ to the soul in a more glorious way, both for certainty and
for durableness, both as to the promise and the constancy of it
(Matt 16:17, 18).

3. There is a faith of a man's own, of a man's self also; but the
faith of the operation of God, in Scripture, is set in opposition
to that, for, saith He, you are saved by grace, "through faith,
and that not of yourselves," of your own making, but that which is
the free gift of God (Eph 2:8).

4. We say there is an historical faith--that is, such as is begotten
by the co-operation of the Spirit with the Word.

5. We say there is a traditional faith--that is, to believe things
by tradition, because others say they believe them; this is received
by tradition, not by revelation, and shall never be able to stand,
neither at the day of death, nor at the day of judgment; though
possibly men, while they live here, may esteem themselves and states
to be very good, because their heads are filled full of it.

6. There is a faith that is called in Scripture a dead faith, the
faith of devils, or of the devil; they also that have only this, they
are like the devil, and as sure to be damned as he, notwithstanding
their faith, if they get no better into their hearts; for it is
far off from enabling of them to lay hold of Jesus Christ, and so
to put Him on for eternal life and sanctification, which they must
do if ever they be saved (James 2:19,26).

But all these are short of the saving faith of God's elect, as
is manifest; I say, first, Because these may be wrought, and not
by that power so exceedingly stretched forth. Secondly, Because
these are wrought, partly, (1.) By the sense of seeing--namely,
the miracles--not by hearing; and, (2.) The rest is wrought by a
traditional or historical influence of the words in their heads,
not by a heavenly, invisible, almighty, and saving operation of
the Spirit of God in their hearts.

7. I do suppose also that there is a faith that is wrought upon
men through the influence of those gifts and abilities that God
gives sometimes to those that are not His own by election, though
by creation; my meaning is, some men, finding that God hath given
them very great gifts and abilities,--as to the gifts of preaching,
praying, working miracles, or the like--I say, therefore do conclude
that God is their Father, and they are His children; the ground of
which confidence is still begotten, not by the glorious operation
of the Spirit, but by a considering of the great gifts that God hath
bestowed upon them as to the things before-mentioned. As thus, (1.)
the poor soul considers how ignorant it was, and now how knowing
it is. (2.) Considering how vain it formerly was, and also now how
civil it is, presently makes this conclusion--Surely God loves me,
surely He hath made me one of His, and will save me. This is now
a wrong faith, as is evident, in that it is placed upon a wrong
object; for mark, this faith is not placed assuredly on God's grace
alone, through the blood and merits of Christ being discovered
effectually to the soul, but upon God through those things that
God hath given it, as of gifts, either to preach, or pray, or do
great works, or the like, which will assuredly come to nought as
sure as God is in Heaven, if no better faith and ground of faith
be found out for thy soul savingly to rest upon.

As to the second clause of the objection, which runs to this effect,
God loves men upon the account of their believing, I answer, that
God loves men before they believe; He loves them, He calls them,
and gives them faith to believe--"But God, who is rich in mercy,
for His great love wherewith He loved us," when? when we believed,
or before? "even when we were dead in sins," and so, far off from
believers, "hath quickened us together with" Christ, "by grace ye
are saved" (Eph 2:4,5).

Now, also, I suppose that thou wilt say in thy heart, I would you
would show us then what is saving faith; which thing it may be I
may touch upon a while hence, in the next thing that I am to speak
unto. O they that have that are safe indeed!

SECOND. WHO AND HOW MEN ARE ACTUALLY BROUGHT INTO THE NEW COVENANT.

The SECOND thing that I am to speak unto is this--WHO they are
that are actually brought into this free and unchangeable grace;
and also HOW they are brought in.

Answ. Indeed, now we come to the pinch of the whole discourse; and
if God do but help me to run rightly through this, as I do verily
believe He will, I may do thee, reader, good, and bring glory to
my God.

The question containeth these two branches--FIRST. Who are brought
in; SECOND. How they are brought in.

[FIRST. Who are brought in?] The first is quickly answered--"Christ
Jesus came into the world to save sinners," Jewish sinners, Gentile
sinners, old sinners, young sinners, great sinners, the chiefest
of sinners. Publicans and harlots--that is, whores, cheaters, and
exactors--shall enter into the Kingdom of Heaven (1 Tim 1:15; Rom
5:7-11; 1 Cor 6:9,11; Matt 21:31). "For I come not," saith Christ,
"to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance" (Mark 2:17).

A sinner in the Scripture is described in general to be a transgressor
of the law--"Whosoever commiteth sin, transgresseth the law; for
sin is the transgression of the law" (1 John 3:4). But particularly;
they are described in a more particular way, as, 1. Such as in whom
dwelleth the devil (Eph 2:2,3). 2. Such as will do the service of
him (John 8:44). 3. Such as are enemies to God (Col 1:21) 4. Such
as are drunkards, whoremasters, liars, perjured persons, covetous,
revilers, extortionists, fornicators, swearers, possessed with devils,
thieves, idolaters, witches, sorcerers, conjurors, murderers, and
the like (1 Cor 6:9,10; 2 Chron 33:1-13; Acts 2:36,37; 9:1-6; 19:9;
1 Tim 1:14-16). These are sinners, and such sinners that God hath
prepared Heaven, happiness, pardon of sin, and an inheritance
of God, with Christ, with saints, with angels, if they do come in
and accept of grace, as I might prove at large; for God's grace is
so great, that if they do come to Him by Christ, presently all is
forgiven them; therefore never object that thy sins are too great
to be pardoned; but come, taste and see how good the Lord is to
any whosoever come unto Him.

[SECOND.] The second thing is, How are these brought into this
Everlasting Covenant of Grace?

Answ. When God doth in deed and in truth bring in a sinner into
this most blessed covenant, [Come to the Touchstone, sinner]. for
so it is, He usually goeth this way--

First. He slays or kills the party to all things besides Himself,
and His Son Jesus Christ, and the comforts of the Spirit. For the
clearing of this I shall show you, 1. With what God kills; 2. How
God kills; 3. To what God kills those whom He makes alive in Jesus
Christ.

1. [What God kills]. When God brings sinners into the Covenant of
Grace, He doth first kill them with the Covenant of Works, which
is the moral law, or Ten Commandments. This is Paul's doctrine, and
also Paul's experience. It is his doctrine where he saith, "The
ministration of death, written and engraven in stones--the ministration
of condemnation," which is the law, in that place called the letter,
"killeth" (2 Cor 3:6-9). The letter, saith he, killeth; or the law,
or the ministration of death, which in another place is called "the
voice of words" (Heb 12:19), because they have no life in them,
but rather death and damnation, through our inability to fulfill
them, doth kill (Rom 8:3; 2 Cor 6). It is his experience where he
saith, "I was alive" that is, to my own things, "without the law
once," that is, before God did strike him dead by it, "but when
the commandment came," that is, to do and exercise its right office
on me, which was to kill me, then "sin revived, and I died," and I
was killed. "And the commandment," or the law, "which was ordained
to" be unto "life, I found to be unto death. For sin, taking occasion
by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me" (Rom 7:9-11).

2. But how doth God kill with this law, or covenant?

1. By opening to the soul the spirituality of it--"The law is
spiritual," saith he, "but I am carnal, sold under sin" (Rom 7:14).
Now the spirituality of the law is discovered this way--

(1.) By showing to the soul that every sinful thought is a sin
against it. Ay, sinner, when the law doth come home indeed upon
thy soul in the spirituality of it, it will discover such things
to thee to be sins that now thou lookest over and regardest not;
that is a remarkable saying of Paul when he saith, "Sin revived,
and I died." Sin revived, saith he; as if he had said, Those things
that before I did not value nor regard, but looked upon them to be
trifles, to be dead, and forgotten; but when the law was fastened
on my soul, it did so raise them from the dead, call them into
mind, so muster them before my face, and put such strength into
them, that I was overmastered by them, by the guilt of them. Sin
revived by the commandment, or my sins had mighty strength, life,
and abundance of force upon me because of that, insomuch that they
killed me (Matt 5:28).

(2.) It showeth that every such sin deserveth eternal damnation.
Friends, I doubt there be but few of you that have seen the
spirituality of the law of works. But this is one thing in which
it discovereth its spirituality, and this is the proper work of
the Law.

(3.) God, with a discovery of this, doth also discover His own
Divine and infinite justice, of which the law is a description,
which backs what is discovered by the law, and that by discovering
of its purity and holiness to be so Divine, so pure, so upright,
and so far of from winking at the least sin, that He doth by that
law, without any favour, condemn the sinner for that sin (Gal
3:10). Now, when He hath brought the soul into this praemunire,13
into this puzzle, then,

2. He showeth to the soul the nature and condition of the law as
to its dealings with, or forbearing of, the sinner that hath sinned
against it; which is to pass an eternal curse upon both soul and
body of the party so offending, saying to him, Cursed be the man
that continueth not in everything that is written in the Book of
the Law to do it; for, saith the law, this is my proper work; first,
to show thee thy sins; and when I have done that, then, in the next
place, to condemn thee for them, and that without all remedy, as
from ME, or anything within my bounds, for I am not to save any,
to pardon any--nay, not to favour any in the least thing that have
sinned against me; for God did not send me to make alive, but to
discover sin, and to condemn for the same. Now, so soon as this is
presented to thy conscience, in the next place, the Lord also by
this law doth show that now there is no righteous act according to
the tenor of that covenant that can replieve him, or take him off
from all this horror and curse that lies upon him; because that is
not an administration of pardon, as I said before, to forgive the
sin, but an administration of damnation, because of transgression.
O, the very discovery of this striketh the soul into a deadly
swoon, even above half dead! But when God doth do the work indeed,
He doth, in the next place, show the soul that he is the man that
is eternally under this covenant by nature, and that it is he that
hath sinned against this law, and doth by right deserve the curse
and displeasure of the same, and that all that ever he can do will
not give satisfaction to that glorious justice that did give this
law; holy actions, tears of blood, selling all, and giving it to
the poor, or whatever else can be done by thee, it comes all short
and is all to no purpose (Phil 3). I will warrant him, he that
seeth this, it will kill him to that which he was alive unto before,
though he had a thousand lives. Ah, sinners, sinners, were you but
sensible indeed of the severity and truth of this, it would make
you look about you to purpose! O, how would it make you strive to
stop at that that now you drink down with delight! How many oaths
would it make you bite asunder! Nay, it would make you bite your
tongues to think that they should be used as instruments of the
devil to bring your souls into such an unspeakable misery; then
also we should not have you hang the salvation of your souls upon
such slender pins as now you do; no, no; but you would be in another
mind then. O, then we should have you cry out, I must have Christ;
what shall I do for Christ? how shall I come at Christ? Would I
was sure, truly sure of Christ. My soul is gone, damned, cast away,
and must for ever burn with the devils, if I do not get precious
Jesus Christ!

3. In the next place, when God hath done this, then He further
shows the soul that that covenant which it is under by nature is
distinct from the Covenant of Grace; and also they that are under
it are by nature without any of the graces which they have that are
under the Covenant of Grace; as, (1.) That it hath no faith (John
16:9). (2.) No hope (Eph 2:12). Nor none of the Spirit to work
these things in it by nature. (4.) Neither will that covenant give
to them any peace with God. (5.) No promise of safeguard from His
revenging law by that covenant. (6.) But lieth by nature liable
to all the curses, and condemnings, and thunderclaps of this most
fiery covenant. (7.) That it will accept of no sorrow, no repentance,
no satisfaction, as from thee. (8.) That it calls for no less than
the shedding of thy blood. (9.) The damnation of thy soul and body.
(10.) And if there be anything proffered to it by thee, as to the
making of it amends, it throws it back again as dirt in thy face,
slighting all that thou canst bring.

Now, when the soul is brought into this condition, then it is indeed
dead, killed to that to which it was once alive. And therefore,

3. In the next place, to show you to what it is killed: and that
is,

1. To sin. O, it dares not sin! it sees Hell-fire is prepared for
them that sin, God's justice will not spare it if it live in sin;
the Law will damn it if it live in sin; the devil will have it if
it follows its sins. [Here I am speaking of one that is effectually
brought in]. O, I say, it trembles at the very thoughts of sin! Ay,
if sin do but offer to tempt the soul, to draw away the soul from
God, it cries, it sighs, it shunneth the very appearance of sin, it
is odious unto it. If God would but serve you thus that love your
pleasures, you would not make such a trifle of sin as you do.

2. It is killed to the Law of God as it is the Covenant of Works.
O, saith the soul, the law hath killed me to itself, "I through the
law am dead to the law" (Gal 2:19). The law is another thing than
I did think it was. I thought it would not have been so soul-destroying,
so damning a law! I thought it would not have been so severe against
me for my little sins, for my playing, for my jesting, for my
dissembling, quarreling, and the like. I had some thoughts, indeed,
that it would hew great sinners, but let me pass! and though it
condemned great sinners, yet it would pass me by! But now, would
I were free from this covenant, would I were free from this law! I
will tell thee that a soul thus worked upon is more afraid of the
Covenant of Works than he is of the devil; for he sees it is the
law that doth give him up into his hands for sin; and if he was but
clear from that, he should not greatly need to fear the devil. O,
now every particular command tears the caul of his heart; now every
command is a great gun well charged against his soul; now he sees
he had as good run into a fire to keep himself from burning, as
to run to the law to keep himself from damning; and this he sees
really, ay, and feels it too, to his own sorrow and perplexity. 14

3. The soul also now is killed to his own righteousness, and counts
that but dung, but dross, not worth the dirt hanging on his shoes.
O! then, says he, thou filthy righteousness! how hast thou deceived
me! How hast thou beguiled my poor soul! (Isa 64:6). How did I
deceive myself with giving of a little alms; with abstaining from
some gross pollutions; with walking in some ordinances, as to
the outside of them! How hath my good words, good thinkings, good
meanings, as the world calls them, deceived my ignorant soul! I
want the righteousness of faith, the righteousness of God; for I
see now there is no less will do me any good.

4. It is also killed to its own faith, its notion of the Gospel,
its own hope, its own repentings, its own promises and resolutions,
to its own strength, its own virtue, or whatsoever it had before.
Now, saith the soul, that faith I thought I had, it is but fancy;
that hope I thought I had, I see it is by hypocritical, but vain
and groundless hope. [These things would be too tedious to enlarge
upon]. Now the soul sees it hath by nature no saving faith, no
saving hope, no grace at all by nature, by the first covenant. Now
it crieth out, How many promises have I broken! and how many times
have I resolved in vain, when I was sick at such a time, and in
such a strait at such a place! Indeed, I thought myself a wise man
once, but I see myself a very fool now. O, how ignorant am I of
the Gospel now, and of the blessed experience of the work of God on
a Christian heart! In a word, it sees itself beset by nature with
all evil, and destitute of all good, which is enough to kill the
stoutest, hardest-hearted sinner that ever lived on the earth. O,
friends, should you be plainly dealt withal by this discovery of
the dealing of God with a sinner when He makes him a saint, and
would seriously try your selves thereby, as God will try you one
day, how few would there be found of you to be so much as acquainted
with the work of God in the notion, much less in the experimental
knowledge of the same! And indeed, God is fain to take this way
with sinners, thus to kill them with the old covenant to all things
below a crucified Christ.

Six reasons of this discourse.

1. Because otherwise there would be none in the world that would
look after this sweet Jesus Christ. There are but a few that go to
Heaven in all, comparatively; and those few God is fain to deal with
them in this manner, or else His Heaven, His Christ, His glory, and
everlasting happiness must abide by themselves, for all sinners.
Do you think that Manasseh would have regarded the Lord, had He not
suffered his enemies to have prevailed against him? (2 Chron 33:1-16).
Do you think that Ephraim would have looked after salvation, had not
God first confounded him with the guilt of the sins of his youth?
(Jer 31:18). What do you think of Paul? (Acts 9:4-6). What do you
think of the jailer? (Acts 16:30-32). What do you think of the
three thousand? (Acts 2:36,37). Was not this the way that the Lord
was fain to take to make them close in with Jesus Christ? Was He not
fain to kill them to everything below a Christ, that were driven
to their wits' ends, insomuch that they were forced to cry out,
"What shall we do to be saved?" I say, God might have kept Heaven
and happiness to Himself, if He should not go this way to work with
sinners. O stout-hearted rebels! O tender-hearted God!

2. Because then, and not till then, will sinners accept of Jesus
Christ on God's terms. So long as sinners can make a life out
of anything below Christ, so long they will not close with Christ
without indenting; 15

But when the God of Heaven hath killed them to everything below
Himself and His Son, then Christ will down on any terms in the
world. And, indeed, this is the very reason why sinners, when they
hear of Christ, yet will not close in with Him; there is something
that they can take content in besides Him. The prodigal, so long
as he could content himself with the husks that the swine did eat,
so long he did keep him away from his father's house; but when
he could get no nourishment anywhere on this side of his father's
house, then saith he, and not till then, "I will arise, and go to
my father," etc.

I say, this is the reason, therefore, why men come no faster,
and close no more readily, with the Son of God, but stand halting
and indenting 16 about the terms they must have Christ upon; for,
saith the drunkard, I look on Christ to be worth the having; but
yet I am not willing to lose ALL for him; all but my pot, saith the
drunkard; and all but the world, saith the covetous. I will part
with anything but lust and pride, saith the wanton. But if Christ
will not be had without I forsake all, cast away all, then it must
be with me as it was with the young man in the Gospel, such news
will make me sorry at the very heart.

But now, when a man is soundly killed to all his sins, to all his
righteousness, to all his comforts whatsoever, and sees that there
is no way but the devil must leave him, but he must be damned in
Hell if he be not clothed with Jesus Christ; O, then, saith he,
give me Christ on any terms, whatsoever He cost; though He cost
me friends, though He cost me comforts, though He cost me all that
ever I have; yet, like the wise merchant in the Gospel, they will
sell all to get that pearl. I tell you, when a soul is brought to
see its want of Christ aright, it will not be kept back; father,
mother, husband, wife, lands, livings, nay, life and all, shall go
rather than the soul will miss of Christ. Ay, and the soul counteth
Christ a cheap Saviour if he can get him upon any terms; now the
soul indents17 no longer. Now, Lord, give me Christ upon any terms,
whatsoever He cost; for I am a dead man, a damned man, a castaway,
if I have not Christ. What say you, O you wounded sinners? Is not
this true as I have said? Would you not give ten thousand worlds,
if you had so many, so be you might be well assured that your sins
shall be pardoned, and your souls and bodies justified and glorified
at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ?

3. The Lord goeth this way for this reason also, that it might make
the soul sensible what it cost Christ to redeem it from death and
Hell. When a man cometh to feel the sting and guilt of sin, death
and Hell upon his conscience, then, and not till then, can he
tell what it cost Christ to redeem sinners. O! saith the soul, if
a few sins are so terrible, and lay the soul under such wrath and
torment, what did Christ undergo, who bare the sins of thousands
and thousands, and all at once?

This also is one means to make souls tender of sin (it is the burned
child that feareth the fire), to make them humble in a sense of
their own vileness, to make them count everything that God giveth
them a mercy, to make much of the least glimpse of the love of God,
and to prize it above the whole world. O sinners, were you killed
indeed [to sin], then Heaven would be Heaven, and Hell would be
Hell indeed; but because you are not wrought upon in this manner,
therefore you count the ways of God as bad as a good man counteth
the ways of the devil, and the ways of the devil and Hell as good
as a saint doth count the ways of God.

4. Again, God is fain to go this way, and all to make sinners make
sure of Heaven. So long as souls are senseless of sin, and what a
damnable state they are in by nature, so long they will even dally
with the Kingdom of Heaven and the salvation of their own poor
souls; but when God cometh and showeth them where they are, and
what it is like to become of them if they miss of the crucified
Saviour, O, then, saith the soul, would I were sure of Jesus; what
shall I do to get assurance of Jesus? And thus is God forced, as
I may say, to whip souls to Jesus Christ, they being so secure, so
senseless, and so much their own enemies, as not to look out after
their own eternal advantage.

5. A fifth reason why God doth deal thus with sinners it is, because
He would bring Christ and the soul together in a right way. Christ
and sinners would never come together in a beloved posture, they
would not so suitably suit each other, if they were not brought
together this way, the sinner being killed. O, when the sinner is
killed, and indeed struck dead to everything below a naked Jesus,
how suitably then doth the soul and Christ suit one with another.
Then here is a naked sinner for a righteousness Jesus, a poor
sinner to a rich Jesus, a weak sinner to a strong Jesus, a blind
sinner to a seeing Jesus, an ignorant, careless sinner to a wise
and careful Jesus. O, how wise is God in dealing thus with the
sinner! He strips him of his own knowledge, that He may fill him
with Christ's; He killeth him for taking pleasure in sin, that he
may take pleasure in Jesus Christ, etc.

6. God goeth this way with sinners, because He would have the glory
of their salvation. Should not men and women be killed to their own
things, they would do sacrifice unto them, and instead of saying to
the Lamb, "THOU ART WORTHY," they would say their own arm, their
own right hand hath saved them; but God will cut off boasting
from ever entering within the borders of eternal glory; for He is
resolved to have the glory of the beginning, the middle, and the
end; of the contriving, and saving, and giving salvation to them
that enter in to the joys of everlasting glory (Rom 3:27; Eph
2:8,9; Titus 3:5; Rev 5:9). "That they might be called trees of
righteousness, the planting of the LORD, that He might be glorified"
(Isa 61:3). I might have run through many things as to this; but
I shall pass them, and proceed.

Second. Now, the soul being this killed to itself, [The soul that
hath the right work of God upon its heart, is not only killed to
itself, but also made alive to Christ]. its sins, its righteousness,
faith, hope, wisdom, promises, resolutions, and the rest of its
things which it trusted in by nature; in the next place, it hath
also given unto it a most glorious, perfect, and never-fading life,
which is--

1. A life imputed to it, yet so really, that the very thought of it
in the soul hath so much operation and authority, especially when
the mediation of it is mixed with faith, as to make it, though
condemned by the law, to triumph, and to look its enemies in the
face with comfort, notwithstanding the greatness of the multitude,
the fierceness of their anger, and the continuation of their malice,
be never so hot against it.

This imputed life--for so it is--is the obedience of the Son
of God as His righteousness, in His suffering, rising, ascending,
interceding, and so consequently triumphing over all the enemies
of the soul, and given to me, as being wrought on purpose for me.
So that, is there righteousness in Christ? that is mine. Is there
perfection in that righteousness? that is mine. Did He bleed for
sin? it was for mine. Hath He overcome the law, the devil, and
Hell? the victory is mine, and I am counted the conqueror, nay,
more than a conqueror, through Him that hath loved me. And I do
count this a most glorious life; for by this means it is that I am,
in the first place, proclaimed both in Heaven and earth guiltless,
and such an one who, as I am in Christ, am not sinner, and so not
under the law, to be condemned, but as holy and righteous as the Son
of God Himself, because He Himself is my holiness and righteousness,
and so likewise having by this all things taken out of the way that
would condemn me.

Sometimes I bless the Lord my soul hath had the life that now I
am speaking of, not only imputed to me, but the very glory of it
upon my soul; for, upon a time, when I was under many condemnings
of heart, and feared, because of my sins, my soul would miss of
eternal glory, methought I felt in my soul such a secret motion of
this--Thy righteousness is in Heaven, together with the splendour
and shining of the Spirit of Grace in my soul, which gave me to see
clearly that my righteousness by which I should be justified from
all that could condemn, was the Son of God Himself in His own Person,
now at the right hand of His Father representing me complete before
the Mercy-seat in His Ownself; so that I saw clearly that night
and day, wherever I was, or whatever I was a doing, still there
was my righteousness just before the eyes of Divine glory; so that
the Father could never find fault with me for any insufficiency that
was in my righteousness, seeing it was complete; neither could He
say, Where is it? because it was continually at His right hand. 18

Also, at another time, having contracted guilt upon my soul, and
having some distemper of body upon me, I supposed that death might
now so seize upon as to take me away from among men; then, thought
I, what shall I do now? is all right with my soul? Have I the right
work of God on my soul? Answering myself, "No, surely"; and that
because there were so many weaknesses in me; yes, so many weaknesses
in my best duties. For, thought I, how can such an one as I find
mercy, whose heart is so ready to evil, and so backward to that
which is good, so far as it is natural. Thus musing, being filled
with fear to die, these words come in upon my soul, "Being justified
freely by His grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus"
(Rom 3:24). As if God had said, Sinner, thou thinkest because that
thou hast had so many infirmities and weaknesses in thy soul while
thou hast been professing of Me, therefore now there can be no hopes
of mercy; but be it known unto thee, that it was not anything done
by thee at the first that moved Me to have mercy upon thee: neither
is it anything that is done by thee now that shall make me either
accept or reject thee. Behold My Son, who standeth by Me, He is
righteous, He hath fulfilled My Law, and given me good satisfaction;
on Him, therefore, do I look, and on thee only as thou art in Him;
and according to what He hath done, so will I deal with thee. This
having stayed my heart, and taken off the guilt through the strength
of its coming on my soul, anon after came in that word as a second
testimony--"Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling,
not according to our works," of righteousness which we have done,
"but according to His own purpose and grace, which was given us in
Christ Jesus before the world began" (2 Tim 1:9). And thus is the
sinner made alive from the dead, being justified by grace through
the righteousness of Christ, which is unto all and upon all them
that believe, according to the Scriptures--"And the life which
I now live--it is by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me,
and gave Himself for me" (Gal 2:20). "I lay down my life for the
sheep." "I am come that they might have life, and that they might
have it more abundantly" (John 10:10,15). "For if, when we were
enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of His Son, much more,
being reconciled, we shall be saved by His life. That as sin hath
reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness
unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord" (Rom 5:10,21).

2. This life is not only imputed to him that is wrought on by the
Spirit of Grace--that is, not only counted his, but also there is
put into the soul an understanding, enlightened on purpose to know
the things of God, which is Christ and His imputed righteousness
(1 John 5:20) which it never thought of nor understood before (1
Cor 2:9-11). Which understanding being enlightened and made to see
such things that the soul cannot be contented without it lay hold
of and apply Christ unto itself so effectually; I say, that the
soul shall be exceedingly revived in a very heavenly measure with
the application of this imputed righteousness; for thereby it
knoweth it shall find God speaking peace to itself, with a fatherly
affection, saying, "Be of good cheer, thy sins are forgiven thee";
the righteousness of My Son I bestow upon thee; "For what the law
could not do, in that it was weak through thee," thy "flesh," "I
have sent forth My only Son, and have condemned" thy sins in His
flesh (Rom 8:3). And though thou hast gone astray like a lost sheep,
yet on Him I have laid thine iniquities; and though thou thereby
didst undo and break thyself for ever, yet by His stripes I have
healed thee. Thus, I say, the Lord causeth the soul by faith to
apply that which He doth by grace impute unto it, for thus every
soul more or less is dealt withal; the soul being thus enlightened,
thus quickened, thus made alive from that dead state it was in
before, or at least having the beginnings of this life, it hath
these several virtuous advantages, which they have not that are
dead in their sins and trespasses, and under the law--

[Advantages possessed by the quickened].

First. It seeth what a sad condition all men by nature are in, they
being in that state which itself was in but a while since; but now
by grace it is a beginning to scrabble 19 out of it; now it seeth
"the whole world lieth in wickedness," and so liable to eternal
vengeance, because of their wickedness (1 John 5:19). Ah, friends,
let me tell you, though you may be ignorant of your state and
condition, yet the poor, groaning, hungering saints of God do see
what a sad, woeful, miserable state you are in, which sometimes
makes them tremble to think of your most lamentable latter end,
your dying so, and also to fly the faster to their Lord Jesus, for
very fear that they also should be partakers of that most doleful
doom. [Like as the children of Israel, who fled for fear when the
ground opened its mouth to swallow up Korah and his company]. And
this it hath by virtue of its own experience, knowing itself was
but awhile ago in the same condition, under the same condemnation.
O! there is now a hearth blessing of God that ever He should show
to it its sad condition, and that He should incline its heart to
seek after a better condition. O blessed be the Lord! saith the
soul, that ever He should awaken me, stir up me, and bring me out
of that sad condition that I once with them was in (Psa 103:1-3).
It makes also the soul to wonder to see how foolishly and vainly
the rest of its neighbours do spend their precious time, that they
should be so void of understanding, so forgetful of their latter
end, so senseless of the damning nature of their sins. O that
their eyes were but enlightened to see whereabouts they are! surely
they would be of another mind than they are now in. Now, the soul
wonders to see what slender pins those poor creatures do hang the
stress of the eternal salvation of their souls upon. O! methinks,
saith the soul, it makes me mourn to see that some should think
that they were born Christians; and others, that their baptism makes
them so; 20 others depend barely upon a traditional, historical
faith, which will leave their souls in the midst of perplexity. That
they should trust to such fables, fancies, and wicked sleights of
the devil, as their good doings, their good thinkings, their civil
walking and living with the world. O miserable profession, and the
end thereof will be a miserable end!

But now, when the souls is thus wrought upon, it must be sure to
look for the very gates of Hell to be set open against it with all
their force and might to destroy it. Now Hell rageth, the devil
roareth, and all the world resolveth to do the best they can to
bring the soul again into bondage and ruin. Also, the soul shall
not want enemies, even in its own heart's lust, [But this is but for
the exercise of his faith.] as covetousness, adultery, blasphemy,
unbelief, hardness of heart, coldness, half-heartedness, ignorance,
with an innumerable company of attendants, hanging, like so many
blocks, at its heels, ready to sink it into the fire of Hell every
moment, together with strange apprehensions of God and Christ, as
if now they were absolutely turned to be its enemies, which maketh
it doubt of the certainty of its salvation; for you must understand,
that though a soul may in reality have the righteousness of the Son
of God imputed to it, and also some faith in a very strong manner
to lay hold upon it, yet at another time, through temptation, they
may fear and doubt again, insomuch that the soul may be put into
a very great fear lest it should return again into the condition
it once was in (Jer 32:40). O, saith the soul, when I think of my
former state, how miserable it was, it makes me tremble; and when
I think that I may fall into that condition again, how sad are the
thoughts of it to me! I would not be in that condition again for
all the world. And this fear riseth still higher and higher, as
the soul is sensible of Satan's temptations, or of the working of
its own corruptions. Ah! these filthy lusts, these filthy corruptions.
O that I were rid of them, that they were consumed in a moment,
that I could be quite rid of them, they do so disturb my soul,
dishonour my God, so defile my conscience, and sometimes so weaken
my hands in the way of God, and my comforts in the Lord; O how glad
should I be if I might be stripped of them (Rom 7:24). Which fear
puts the soul upon flying to the Lord by prayer for the covering
of His imputed righteousness, and for strength against the devil's
temptations and its own corruptions; that God would give down His
Holy Spirit to strengthen it against the things that do so annoy its
soul, and so discourage it in its way, with a resolution, through
grace, never to be contented while [until] it doth find in itself
a triumphing over it, by faith in the blood of a crucified Jesus.

Second. The soul that hath been thus killed by the Law to the things
it formerly delighted in, now, O now, it cannot be contented with
that slender, groundless faith and hope that once it contented
itself withal. No, no; but now it must be brought into the right
saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, now it must have Him discovered
to the soul by the Spirit, now it cannot be satisfied because such
and such do tell it is so. No; but now it will cry out, Lord, show
me continually, in the light of Thy Spirit, through Thy Word, that
Jesus that was born in the days of Caesar Augustus, when Mary, a
daughter of Judah, went with Joseph to be taxed at Bethlehem, that
He is the very Christ. Lord, let me see it in the light of Thy
Spirit, and in the operation thereof; and let me not be contented
without such a faith that is so wrought even by the discovery
of His birth, crucifying, death, blood, resurrection, ascension,
intercession, and second--which is His personal--coming again, that
the very faith of it may fill my soul with comfort and holiness.
And O, how afraid the soul is lest it should fall short of this
faith, and of the hope that is begotten by such discoveries as
these are! For the soul knoweth that if it hath not this, it will
not be able to stand either in death or judgment; and therefore,
saith the soul, Lord, whatever other poor souls content themselves
withal, let me have that which will stand me in stead, and carry
me through a dangerous world; that may help me to resist a cunning
devil; that may help me to suck true soul-satisfying consolation
from Jesus Christ through Thy promises, by the might and power
of Thy Spirit. And now, when the poor soul at any time hath any
discovery of the love of God through a bleeding, dying, risen,
interceding Jesus, because it is not willing to be deceived, O,
how wary [But this may be its temptation, taking place through the
timorousness of the soul]. is it of closing with it, for fear it
should not be right, for fear it should not come from God! Saith
the soul, Cannot the devil give one such comfort I trow? Cannot he
transform himself thus into an angel of light? So that the soul,
because that it would be upon a sure ground, cries out, Lord, show
me Thy salvation, and that not once or twice, but, Lord, let me
have Thy presence continually upon my heart, today, and tomorrow,
and every day. For the soul, when it is rightly brought from under
the Covenant of Works, and planted into the Covenant of Grace,
then it cannot be, unless it be under some desperate temptation,
contented without the presence of God, teaching, comforting,
establishing, and helping of the soul to grow in the things of the
Lord Jesus Christ; because it knoweth that if God hath but withdrawn
His presence in any way from it, as He doth do sometimes for a while,
that then the devil will be sure to be near at hand, working with
his temptations, trying all ways to get the soul into slavery and
sin again; also the corrupt principle, that will be joining and
combining with the Wicked One, and will be willing to be a co-partner
with him to bring the soul into mischief; which puts a soul upon
an earnest, continual panting after more of the strengthening,
preserving, comforting, and teaching presence of God, and for strong
supplies of faith, that it may effectually lay hold on him.

Third. The soul is quickened so that it is not satisfied now without
it do in deed and in truth partake of the peace of God's elect;
now it is upon the examination of the reality of its joy and peace.
Time was indeed that anything would serve its turn, any false
conceits of its state to be good; but now all kind of peace will
not serve its turn, all kind of joy will not be accepted with it;
now it must joy in God through Jesus Christ; now its peace must
come through the virtues of the blood of Christ speaking peace to
the conscience by taking away both the guilt and filth of sin by
that blood; also by showing the soul its free acceptance with God
through Christ, He hath completely fulfilled all the conditions of
the first covenant, and freely placed it into the safety of what
He hath done, and so presents the soul complete and spotless in
the sight of God through His obedience. Now, I say, he hath "peace
through the blood of His Cross," and sees himself reconciled to God
by the death of His Son, or else his comfort will be questioned by
him (Col 1:20,21). It is not every promise as cometh now upon his
heart that will serve his turn, no, but he must see whether the
babe Jesus be presented to the soul in and through that promise.
Now if the babe leap in his womb, as I may so say, it is because
the Lord's promise sounds aloud in his heart, coming to him big
with the love and pardoning grace of God in Jesus Christ; I say,
this is the first and principal joy that the soul hath that is
quickened and brought into the Covenant of Grace.

Fourth. Now the man finds heavenly sanctification wrought in
his soul through the most precious blood of the Man whose name is
Jesus Christ--"Jesus, that He might sanctify the people with His
own blood, suffered without the gate." Now the souls finds a change
in the understanding, in the will, in the mind, in the affections,
in the judgment, and also in the conscience; through the inward man
a change, and through the outward man a change, from head to foot,
as we use to say, "for he that is in Christ," and so in this Covenant
of Grace, "is a new creature," or hath been twice made--made, and
made again (2 Cor 5:17). O, now the soul is resolved for Heaven
and Glory; now it crieth out, Lord, if there be a right eye that
is offensive to Thee, pluck it out; or a right foot, cut it off;
or a right hand, take it from me. Now the soul doth begin to study
how it may honour God, and bring praise to Him. Now the soul is
for a preparation for the second coming of Christ, endeavouring to
lay aside everything that may hinder; and for the closing in with
those things that may make it in a beloved posture against that
day.

Fifth. And all this is from a Gospel spirit, and not from a legal,
natural principle, for the soul hath these things as the fruits and
effects of its being separated unto the Covenant of Grace, and so
now possessed with that Spirit that doth attend, yea, and dwell
in them that are brought into the Covenant of Grace from under the
old covenant; I say, these things do spring forth in the soul from
another root and stock than any of the actings of other men do;
for the soul that is thus wrought upon is as well dead to the law
and the righteousness thereof--as the first covenant--as well as
to its sins.

Sixth. Now the soul begins to have some blessed experience of the
things of God, even of the glorious mysteries of the Gospel.

1. Now it knoweth the meaning of those words, "My flesh is meat
indeed, and My blood is drink, indeed," and that by experience; for
the soul hath received peace of conscience through that blood, by
the effectual application of it to the soul (John 6:55). First,
by feeling the guilt of sin die off from the conscience by the
operation thereof. Secondly, By feeling the power thereof to take
away the curse of the law. Thirdly, By finding the very strength
of Hell to fail when once the blood of that Man Jesus Christ is
received in reality upon the soul.

2. Now the soul also knoweth by experience the meaning of that
Scripture that saith, "Our old man is crucified with Him, that the
body of sin might be destroyed" (Rom 6:6). Now it sees that when
the Man Jesus did hang on the tree on Mount Calvary, that then the
body of its sins was there hanged up, dead and buried with Him,
though it was then unborn, so as never to be laid to its charge,
either here or hereafter; and also, so as never to carry it captive
into perpetual bondage, being itself overcome by Him, even Christ,
the Head of that poor creature. And indeed this is the way for
a soul both to live comfortably as touching the guilt of sin, and
also as touching the power of the filth of sin; for the soul that
doth or hath received this in deed and in truth, finds strength
against them both by and through that Man that did for him and the
rest of his fellow-sinners so gloriously overcome it, and hath given
the victory unto them, so that now they are said to be overcomers,
nay, "more than conquerors through Him," the one Man Jesus Christ
(Rom 7:33-37).

3. Now the soul hath received a faith indeed, and a lively hope
indeed, such an one as now it can fetch strength from the fullness
of Christ, and from the merits of Christ.

4. Yea, now the soul can look on itself with one eye, and look upon
Christ with another, and say, Indeed, it is true; I am an empty
soul, but Christ is a full Christ; I am a poor sinner, but Christ
is a rich Christ; I am a foolish sinner, but Christ is a wise
Christ; I am an unholy, ungodly, unsanctified creature in myself,
but Christ is made of God "unto me, wisdom, and righteousness, and
sanctification, and redemption" (1 Cor 1:30).

5. Now also that fiery law, that it could not once endure, nor
could not once delight in, I say, now it can delight in it after
the inward man; now this law is its delight, it would always be
walking in it, and always be delighting in it, being offended with
any sin or any corruption that would be anyways an hinderance to it
(Rom 7:24,25). And yet it will not abide, it will not endure that
that, even that that law should offer to take the work of its
salvation out of Christ's hand; no, if it once comes to do that,
then out of doors it shall go, if it were as good again. For that
soul that hath the right work of God indeed upon it, cries, Not my
prayers, not my tears, not my works, not my things, do they come
from the work of the Spirit of Christ itself within me, yet these
shall not have the glory of my salvation; no, it is none but the
blood of Christ, the death of Christ, of the Man Christ Jesus of
Nazareth, the carpenter's son, as they called Him, that must have
the crown and glory of my salvation. None but Christ, none but
Christ. And thus the soul labours to give Christ the preeminence
(Col 1:18).

A word of experience.

Now, before I go any further, I must needs speak a word from my
own experience of the things of Christ; and the rather, because we
have a company of silly ones in this day of ignorance that do either
comfort themselves with a notion without the power, or else do
both reject the notion and the power of this most glorious Gospel;
therefore, for the further conviction of the reader, I shall tell
him, with David, something of what the Lord hath done for my soul;
and indeed a little of the experience of the things of Christ is
far more worth than all the world. It would be too tedious for me
to tell thee here all from the first to the last; but something I
shall tell thee, that thou mayest not think these things are fables.
[This conviction seized on my soul one Sabbath day, when I was at
play, being one of the first that I had, which when it came, though
it scared me with its terror, yet through the temptation of the
devil, immediately striking in therewith, I did rub it off again,
and became as vile for some time as I was before, like a wretch
that I was]. 21

Reader, when it pleased the Lord to begin to instruct my soul, He
found me one of the black sinners of the world; He found me making
a sport of oaths, and also of lies; and many a soul-poisoning meal
did I make out of divers lusts, as drinking, dancing, playing,
pleasure with the wicked ones of the world. The Lord finding of me
in this condition, did open the glass of His Law unto me, wherein
He showed me so clearly my sins, both the greatness of them, and
also how abominable they were in His sight, that I thought the very
clouds were charged with the wrath of God, and ready to let fall
the very fire of His jealousy upon me; yet for all this I was so
wedded to my sin, that, thought I with myself, I will have them though
I lose my soul, (O wicked wretch that I was!) but God, the great,
the rich, the infinite merciful God, did not take this advantage
of my soul to cast me away, and say, Then take him, Devil, seeing
he cares for Me no more; no, but He followed me still, and won
upon my heart, by giving me some understanding, not only into my
miserable state, which I was very sensible of, but also that there
might be hopes of mercy; also taking away that love to lust, and
placing in the room thereof a love to religion; and thus the Lord
won over my heart to some desire after the means, to hear the Word,
and to grow a stranger to my old companions, and to accompany the
people of God, together with giving of me many sweet encouragements
from several promises in the Scriptures. But after this, the Lord
did wonderfully set my sins upon my conscience, those sins especially
that I had committed since the first convictions; temptations
also followed me very hard, and especially such temptations as did
tend to the making me question of the very way of salvation--viz.,
whether Jesus Christ was the Saviour or no; and whether I had
best to venture my soul upon His blood for salvation, or take some
other course. But being through grace kept close with God, in some
measure, in prayer and the rest of the ordinances, but went about
a year and upwards without any sound evidence as from God to my
soul touching the salvation that comes by Jesus Christ. But, at
the last, as I may say, when the set time was come, the Lord, just
before the men called Quakers came into the country, did set me
down so blessedly in the truth of the doctrine of Jesus Christ,
that it made me marvel to see, first, how Jesus Christ was born of
a virgin, walked in the world awhile with His disciples, afterwards
hanged on the Cross, spilt His blood, was buried, rose again, ascended
above the clouds and heavens, there lives to make intercession, and
that He also will come again at the last day to judge the world,
and take His saints unto Himself.

These things, I say, I did see so evidently, even as if I had stood
when He was in the world, and also when He was caught up. I having
such a change as this upon my soul, it made me wonder; and musing
with myself at the great alteration that was in my spirit--for the
Lord did also very gloriously give me in His precious Word to back
the discovery of the Son of God unto me, so that I can say, through
grace, it was according to the Scriptures (1 Cor 15:1-4). And as
I was musing with myself what these things should mean, methought
I heard such a word in my heart as this--I have set thee down on
purpose, for I have something more than ordinary for thee to do;
which made me the more marvel, saying, What, my Lord, such a poor
wretch as I? Yet still this continued, I have set thee down on
purpose, and so forth, with more fresh incomes of the Lord Jesus,
and the power of the blood of His Cross upon my soul, even so
evidently that I saw, through grace, that it was the blood shed on
Mount Calvary that did save and redeem sinners, as clearly and as
really with the eyes of my soul as ever, me thought, I had seen a
penny loaf bought with a penny; which things then discovered had
such operation upon my soul, that I do hope they did sweetly season
every faculty thereof. Reader, I speak in the presence of God, and
He knows I lie not; much of this, and such like dealings of His,
could I tell thee of; but my business at this time is not so to do,
but only to tell what operation the blood of Christ hath had over
and upon my conscience, and that at several times, and also when
I have been in several frames of spirit.

As, first, sometimes, I have been so loaden with my sins, that I
could not tell where to rest, nor what to do; yea, at such times I
thought it would have taken away my senses; yet at that time God
through grace hath all of a sudden so effectually applied the blood
that was spilt at Mount Calvary out of the side of Jesus, unto my
poor, wounded, guilty conscience, that presently I have found such
a sweet, solid, sober, heart-comforting peace, that it hath made
me as if it [my terror] had not been, and withal the same, I may
say, and I ought to say, the power of it, hath had such a powerful
operation upon my soul, that I have for a time been in a strait
and trouble to think that I should love and honour Him no more,
the virtue of His blood hath so constrained me.

Again; sometimes methinks my sins have appeared so big to me that
I thought one of my sins have been as big as all the sins of all
the men in the nation; ay, and of other nations too, reader; these
things be not fancies, for I have smarted for this experience, but
yet the least stream of the heart blood of this Man 22 Jesus hath
vanished all away, and hath made it to fly, to the astonishment
of such a poor sinner; and as I said before, hath delivered me up
into sweet and heavenly peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.

Again; sometimes when my heart hath been hard, dead, slothful, blind,
and senseless, which indeed are sad frames for a poor Christian to
be in, yet at such a time, when I have been is such a case, then
hath the blood of Christ, the precious blood of Christ, the admirable
blood of the God of Heaven, that run out of His body when it did
hang on the Cross, so softened, livened, quickened, and enlightened
my soul, that truly, reader, I can say, O it makes me wonder!

Again; when I have been loaden with sin, and [I cannot stand here
to tell thee of particular temptations]. pestered with several
temptations, and in a very sad manner, then have I had the trial
of the virtue of Christ's blood with the trial of the virtue of
other things; and I have found that when tears would not do, prayers
would not do, repentings and all other things could not reach my
heart; O then, one touch, one drop, one shining of the virtue of
the blood, of that blood that was let out with the spear, it hath
in a very blessed manner delivered me, that it hath made me to
marvel. O! methinks it hath come with such life, such power, with
such irresistible and marvelous glory, that it wipes off all the
slurs, silences all the outcries, and quenches all the fiery darts,
and all the flames of Hell-fire, that are begotten by the charges
of the Law, Satan, and doubtful remembrances of my sinful life.

Friends, as Peter saith to the church, so I say to you, I have
not preached to you cunningly devised fables in telling you of the
blood of Christ, and what authority it hath had upon my conscience;
O no, but as Peter saith touching the coming of the Lord Jesus into
the world, so in some measure I can say of the blood of the Lord
Jesus Christ that was shed when He did come into the world. There
is not only my single testimony touching this; no, but there are
all the Prophets do agree in advancing this in writing, and also
all the saints do now declare the same, in speaking forth the
amiableness and many powerful virtues thereof. "As for Thee also,
by the blood of Thy covenant," saith God to Christ, "I have sent
forth Thy prisoners out of the pit wherein is no water" (Zech 9:11).
"We have redemption through His blood" (Eph 1:7). Again, "We have
redemption through His blood" (Col 1:14). Our robes are washed
and made "white in the blood of the Lamb" (Rev 7:14). The devil
is overcome through "the blood of the Lamb" (Rev 12:11). Yea, and
conscience is purged, too, and that through the blood of the Lamb
(Heb 9:14). We have free recourse to the Throne of Grace through
the blood of Jesus (Heb 10:19). I could bring thee a cloud of
witnesses out of all the types and shadows, and out of the sundry
Prophets, and much more out of the New Testament, but I forebear,
because I would not be too tedious to the reader in making too
large a digression, though I have committed here in this discourse
no transgression, for the blood of Christ is precious blood (1
Peter 1:18,19).

THIRD. THE PRIVILEGES OF THE NEW COVENANT.

In the next place, I shall show you the several privileges and
advantages that the man or woman hath that is under this Covenant
of Grace, over what they have that are under the Covenant of the
Law and Works. As,

First. The Covenant of Grace is not grounded upon our obedience,
but upon God's love, even His pardoning love to us through Christ
Jesus. The first covenant is stood to be broken or kept by us,
and God's love or anger to be lost or enjoyed thereafter as we, as
creatures, behaved ourselves; but now, the very ground of the Covenant
of Grace is God's love, His mere love through Jesus Christ--"The
LORD did not set His love upon you, nor choose you, because ye
were more in number than any people; for ye were the fewest of all
people: but because the LORD loved you, and because He would keep
the oath which He had sworn unto your fathers" (Deu 7:7,8). Again,
"In His love and in His pity He redeemed them," "and the angel of
His presence saved them," that is, Jesus Christ (Isa 63:9). And again,
"Who hath saved us--not according to our works" of righteousness
which we have done, "but according to His own purpose and grace,
which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began" (2 Tim
1:9).

Second. This love is not conveyed to us through what we have done,
as is before proved, but through what He hath done with Whom the
covenant was made, which was given us in Christ--According as He
hath chosen us in Christ. "Who hath blessed us with all spiritual
blessings in heavenly places in Christ." "God for Christ's sake hath
forgiven you," that is, through Christ's doings, through Christ's
sufferings (2 Tim 1:9; Eph 1:3,4; 4:32). Now if this be but rightly
understood, it doth discover abundance of comfort to them, that
are within the bounds of the Covenant of Grace. For,

1. Here a believer seeth he shall stand, if Christ's doings and
sufferings stand; which is sure foundation, for God dealeth with
him through Christ. And so, secondly, he shall not fall, unless
the suffering and merits of Christ be thrown over the bar, being
found guilty, which will never be, before the eyes of Divine justice;
for with Him the covenant was made, and He was the Surety of it;
that is, as the covenant was made with Him, so He stood bound to
fulfill the same (Zech 9:11; Heb 7:22). For you must understand
that the covenant was made between the Father and the Son long
before it was accomplished, or manifestly sealed with Christ's
blood; it was made before the world began (Titus 1:2; Eph 1:4; 1
Peter 1:18-20). But the conditions thereof were not fulfilled until
less than two thousand years ago; and all that while did Jesus stand
bound as a surety, as I said before, is used to do, till the time
in which the payment should be made. And it was by virtue of His
Suretyship, having bound Himself by covenant to do all things agreed
on by the Father and Him, that all those of the election that were
born before He came, that they might be saved, and did enter into
rest. For the forgiveness of sins that were past, though it was
through the blood of Christ, yet it was also through the forbearance
of God (Rom 3:25). That is, Christ becoming Surety for those that
died before His coming, that He should in deed and in truth, at
the fullness of time, or at the time appointed, give a complete and
full satisfaction for them according to the tenor or condition of
the covenant. (Gal 4:4). Again,

2. The second covenant, which believers are under, as the ground
and foundation, if it is safe, so the promises thereof are better,
surer, freer, and fuller, etc.

(1.) They are better, if you compare the excellency of the one
with the excellency of the other. The first hath promised nothing
but an early paradise--Do this, and thou shalt live; namely, here
in an earthly paradise. But the other doth bring the promise of a
heavenly paradise.

(2.) As the Covenant of Works doth promise an earthly paradise,
yet it is a paradise or blessing, though once obtained, yet might
be lost again; for no longer than thou doest well, no longer art
thou blessed by that. O, but the promises in the new covenant do
bring unto us the benefit of an eternal inheritance--That "they
which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance."
O rare! it is an "eternal inheritance" (Heb 9:15).

(3.) The other, as it is not so good as this, so neither is it so
sure as this; and therefore he calls the one such an one as might
be, and was, shaken, but this is said to be such an one that cannot
be shaken. "And this Word," saith he, treating of the two covenants
from verse the 8th to the 24th--"And this Word, yet once more,
signifieth the removing of those things that are," or may be,
"shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot
be shaken," which is the second covenant, "may remain," (Heb 12:27);
for, saith he (verse 28) "which cannot be moved." Therefore, ye
blessed saints, seeing you have received a kingdom "which cannot
be moved," therefore, "let us have grace, whereby we may serve"
our "God acceptably with reverence and godly fear."

Thus in general, but more particularly.

(4.) They are surer, in that they are founded upon God's love also,
and they come to us without calling for those things at our hands
that may be a means of putting of a stop to our certain enjoying
of them. The promises under, or for the law, they might easily
be stopped by our disobedience; but the promises under the Gospel
say, "If Heaven above can be measured, and the foundations of the
earth searched," then, and not till then, "I will also cast off
all the seed of Israel for all that they have done" (Jer 31:37).
Again, "I, even I, am He that blotteth out thy transgressions for
Mine own" name's "sake, and will not remember thy sins" (Isa 43:25).
I will make thee a partaker of My promise; and that I may so do,
I will take away that which would hinder; "I will cast all their
sins into the depths of the sea," that My promise may be sure to
all the seed; and therefore, saith the Apostle, when he would show
us that the new-covenant promises were more sure than the old, he
tells us plainly that the law and works are set aside and they are
merely made ours through the righteousness of faith, which is the
righteousness of Christ--"For the promise, that he [Abraham] should
be the heir of the world," saith he, "was not to Abraham, or to his
seed, through the law," or works, "but through the righteousness of
faith. For if they which are of the law," or of works, "be heirs,"
then "faith is made void, and the promise made of none effect.
Therefore it is of faith--to the end the promise might be sure to
all the seed" (Rom 4:13-14,16).

(5.) Surer, because that as that is taken away that should hinder,
so they are committed to a faithful Friend of ours in keeping. For
all the promises of God are in Christ, not yea and nay, but yea
and amen; certain and sure; sure, because they are in the hand of
our Head, our Friend, our Brother, our Husband, our flesh and bones,
even in the heart and hand of our precious Jesus.

(6.) Because all the conditions of them are already fulfilled for
us by Jesus Christ, as aforesaid; every promise that is a new-covenant
promise, if there be any condition in it, our Undertaker hath
accomplished that for us, and also giveth us such grace as to receive
the sweetness as doth spring from them through His obedience to
every thing required in them.

(7.) Surer, because that as they are grounded upon the love of God,
everything is taken out of the way, in the hand of a sure Friend.
And has Christ has fulfilled every condition as to justification
that is contained therein, so the Lord hath solemnly sworn with an
oath for our better confidence in this particular--"For when God
made promise to Abraham," and so to all the saints, "because He
could swear by no greater, He sware by Himself, saying, Surely,
blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee.
And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmation
is to them an end of all strife," that there might be no more
doubt or scruple concerning the certain fulfilling of the promise.
"Wherein God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of
promise the immutability of His counsel," or certain, constant,
unchangeable decree of God in making of the promise, for the comfort
of his children, "confirmed it by an oath: that by two immutable
things," His promise backed with an oath, "in which it was impossible
for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled
for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us" (Heb 6:13-18).

(8.) That they are better it appears also in that they are freer
and fuller. That they are freer, it is evident, in that one saith,
No works, no life--Do this, and then thou shalt live; if not, thou
shalt be damned. But the other saith, We are saved by believing in
what Another hath done, without the works of the Law--"Now to him
that worketh not, but believeth on Him that justifieth the ungodly,
his faith is counted for righteousness" (Rom 4:4,5). The one saith,
Pay me that thou owest; the other say, I do frankly and freely
forgive thee all. The one saith, Because thou hast sinned, thou
shalt die; the other saith, Because Christ lives, thou shalt live
also (John 15).

(9.) And as they are freer, so they are fuller; fuller of encouragement,
fuller of comfort; the one, to wit, the law, looks like Pharaoh's
seven ill-favoured kine, more ready to eat one up than to afford
us any food; the other is like the full grape in the cluster, which
for certain hath a glorious blessing in it. The one saith, If thou
hast sinned, turn again; the other saith, If thou hast sinned, thou
shalt be damned, for all I have a promise in me.

3. They that are of the second are better than they that are
of the first; and it also appeareth in this--The promises of the
Law, through them we have neither faith, nor hope, nor the Spirit
conveyed; but through the promises of the Gospel there are all
these--"Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious
promises, that by these we might be partakers of the Divine nature"
(2 Peter 1:4). O therefore "let us hold fast the profession of
our faith without wavering; for He is faithful that promised" (Heb
10:23). "In hope of eternal life," how so? because "God, that cannot
lie, promised it before the world began" (Titus 1:2).

4. They that are in this covenant are in a very happy state; for
though there be several conditions in the Gospel to be done, yet
Christ Jesus doth not look that they should be done by man, as
man, but by His own Spirit in them, as it is written, "Thou hast
wrought all our works in us." Is there that condition, they must
believe? Why, then, He will be both the "author and finisher of
their faith" (Heb 12:2,3). Is there also hope to be in His children?
He also doth and hath given them "good hope through His grace" (2
Thess 2:16). Again, are the people of God to behave themselves
to the glory of God the Father? then He will work in them "both to
will and to do of His own good pleasure" (Phil 2:13).

5. Again, as He works all our works in us and for us, so also
by virtue of this covenant we have another nature given unto us,
whereby, or by which we are made willing to be glorifying of God,
both in our bodies and in our spirits, which are His--"Thy people
shall be willing in the day of Thy power" (1 Cor 6:20; Psa 110:3).

6. In the next place, all those that are under this second covenant
are in a wonderful safe condition; for in case they should slip
or fall after their conversion into some sin or sins for who lives
and sins not? (Prov 24:16), yet through the merits and intercession
of Christ Jesus, who is their Undertaker in this covenant, they
shall have their sins pardoned, their wounds healed, and they raised
up again; which privilege the children of the first covenant have
not; for if they sin, they are never afterwards regarded by that
covenant--They brake My covenant and I regarded them not, saith
the Lord (Heb 8:9). But when He comes to speak of the Covenant of
Grace, speaking first of the public person under the name of David,
He saith thus, "He shall cry unto Me, Thou art My Father, My God,
and the rock of My salvation. Also I will make Him My firstborn,
higher than the kings of the earth. My mercy will I keep for Him
for evermore, and My covenant shall stand fast with Him. His seed
also will I make to endure for ever, and His throne as the days of
heaven. If His children forsake My law, and walk not in My judgments;
If they break my statutes, and keep not My commandments; Then will
I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with
stripes. Nevertheless My lovingkindness will I not utterly take
from Him, nor suffer My faithfulness to fail. My covenant will I
not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of My lips. Once
have I sworn by My holiness that I will not lie unto David. His
seed shall endure for ever, and His throne as the sun before Me.
It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful
witness in heaven" (Psa 89:26-37). "My covenant shall stand fast with
him"--mark that. As if God had said, I did not make this covenant
with man, but with My Son, and with Him I will perform it; and
seeing He hath given Me complete satisfaction, though His children
do, through infirmity, transgress, yet My covenant is not therefore
broken, seeing He with whom it was made standeth firm, according
to the desire of my heart; so that My justice that is satisfied,
and My Law, hath nothing to say, for there is no want of perfection
in the sacrifice of Christ. If you love your souls, and would have
them live in the peace of God, to the which you are called in one
body, even all believers, then I beseech you seriously to ponder,
and labour to settle in your souls this one thing, that the new
covenant is not broken by our transgressions, and that because it
was not made with us. The reason why the very saints of God have
so many ups and downs in this their travel towards Heaven, it is
because they are so weak in the faith of this one thing; for they
think that if they fail of this or that particular performance, if
their hearts be dead and cold, and their lusts mighty and strong,
therefore now God is angry, and now He will shut them out of His
favour, now the new covenant is broken, and now Christ Jesus will
stand their Friend no longer; now also the devil hath power again,
and now they must have their part in the resurrection of damnation;
when, alas! the covenant is not for all this never the more broken,
and so the grace of God no more straitened than it was before.
Therefore, I say, when thou findest that thou art weak here, and
failing there, backward to this good, and thy heart forward to
that evil; then be sure thou keep a steadfast eye on the Mediator
of this new covenant, and be persuaded that it is not only made
with Him, and His part also fulfilled, but that He doth look upon
His fulfilling of it, so as not to lay thy sins to thy charge, though
He may as a Father chastise thee for the same--"If His children
forsake My law, and walk not in My judgments; if they break My
statutes, and keep not My commandments; then will I visit their
transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless,"
mark "nevertheless My lovingkindness will I not utterly take from
HIM, nor suffer My faithfulness to fail. My covenant will I not
break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of My lips." And what
was that? Why, that "His seed shall endure for ever, and His throne
as the sun before Me" (Psa 89:30-34,36).

7. Another privilege that the saints have by virtue of the new
covenant is, that they have part of the possession or hold of Heaven
and Glory already, and that two manner of ways--(1.) The Divine
nature is conveyed from Heaven into them; and, secondly, the human
nature, i.e., the nature of man, is received up, and entertained
in, and hath got possession of Heaven. We have the first-fruits
of the Spirit, saith the man of God; we have the earnest of the
Spirit, which is instead of the whole, for it is the earnest of the
whole--"Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption
of the purchased possession, unto the praise of His glory" (Eph
1:13,14; Rom 8:8-11). (2.) The nature of man, our nature is got
into glory as the first-fruits of mankind, as a forerunner to take
possession till we all come thither (1 Cor 15:20). For the Man born
at Bethlehem is ascended, which is part of the lump of mankind,
into glory as a public Person, as the first-fruits, representing
the whole of the children of God; so that in some sense it may be
said that the saints have already taken possession of the kingdom
of Heaven by their Jesus, their public Person, He being in their
room entered to prepare a place for them (John 14:1-4). I beseech
you consider, when Jesus Christ came down from Glory, it was that
He might bring us to Glory; and that He might be sure not to fail,
He clothed Himself with our nature, as if one should take a piece
out of the whole lump instead of the whole, until the other comes,
and investeth it in that glory which He was in before He came down
from Heaven (Heb 2:14,15). And thus is that saying to be understood,
speaking of Christ and His saints, which saith, "And" He "hath
raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places
in Christ Jesus" (Eph 2:6).

8. Again, not only thus, but all the power of God, together with
the rest of His glorious attributes, are on our side, in that they
dwell in our nature, which is the Man Jesus, and doth engage for us
poor, simple, empty, nothing creatures as to our eternal happiness
(1 Peter 1:5). "For in Him," that is, in the Man Christ, who is
our nature, our Head, our root, our flesh, our bone, "dwelleth all
the fullness of the Godhead bodily" (Col 2:9,10). Mark how they
are joined together, "In whom dwelleth the fullness of the Godhead.
And ye are complete in Him." God dwelleth completely in Him, and you
also are completely implanted in Him, which is the Head of all
principality and power; and all this by the consent of the Father--"For
it pleased the Father that in Him should all fullness dwell" (Col
1:19). Now mark, the Godhead doth not dwell in Christ Jesus for
Himself only, but that it may be in a way of righteousness conveyed
to us, for our comfort and help in all our wants--"All power is
given unto Me in heaven and in earth," saith He (Matt 28:18). And
then followeth, "And lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end
of the world" (Verse 20). "He hath received gifts for men, yea for
the rebellious" (Psa 68:18). "Of His fullness have all we received,
and grace for grace" (John 1:16). And this the saints cannot be
deprived of, because the covenant made with Christ, in every tittle
of it, was so completely fulfilled as to righteousness, both active
and passive, that justice cannot object anything; holiness now can
find fault with nothing; nay, all the power of God cannot shake
anything that hath been done for us by the Mediator of the new
covenant; so that now there is no Covenant of Works to a believer;
none of the commands, accusations, condemnations, or the least
tittle of the old covenant to be charged on any of those that are
the children of the second covenant; no sin to be charged, because
there is no law to be pleaded, but all is made up by our middle
man, Jesus Christ. O blessed covenant! O blessed privilege! Be
wise, therefore, O ye poor drooping souls that are the sons of this
second covenant, and "stand fast in the liberty wherewith Christ
hath made you free, and be not entangled AGAIN," nor terrified in
your consciences, "with the yoke of bondage"; neither the commands,
accusations, or condemnations of the Law of the old covenant (Gal
5:1).

Two Hell-bred objections answered.

Object. If it be so, then one need not care what they do; they
may sin and sin again, seeing Christ hath made satisfaction. [The
first objection].

Answ. If I were to point out one that was under the power of the
devil, and going post-haste to Hell, for my life I would look no
farther for such a man than to him that would make such a use as
this of the grace of God. What, because Christ is a Saviour, thou
wilt be a sinner! because His grace abounds, therefore thou wilt
abound in sin! O wicked wretch! rake Hell all over, and surely I think
thy fellow will scarce be found! And let me tell thee this before
I leave thee--as God's covenant with Christ for His children, which
are of faith, stands sure, immutable, unrevocable, and unchangeable,
so also hath God taken such a course with thee, that unless thou
canst make God forswear Himself, it is impossible that thou shouldst
go to Heaven, dying in that condition--"They tempted Me, proved
Me," and turned the grace of God into lasciviousness, "so I sware,"
mark that, "so I sware," and that in My wrath, too, that they
should never enter into My rest. Compare Hebrews 3:9-11, with 1
Corinthians 10:5-10. No, saith God; if Christ will not serve their
turns, but they must have their sins too, take them, Devil; if
Heaven will not satisfy them, take them, Hell; devour them, Hell;
scald them, fry them, burn them, Hell! God hath more places than
one to put sinners into. If they do not like Heaven, He will fit
them with Hell; if they do not like Christ, they shall be forced
to have the devil. Therefore we must and will tell of the truth of
the nature of the Covenant of Grace of God to His poor saints for
their encouragement and for their comfort, who would be glad to leap
at Christ upon any terms; yet therewith, we can tell how, through
grace, to tell the hogs and sons of this world what a hog-sty there
is prepared for them, even such an one that God hath prepared to
put the devil and his angels into, is fitly prepared for them (Matt
25:41).

Object. But if Christ hath given God a full and complete satisfaction,
then though I do go on in sin, I need not fear, seeing God hath
already been satisfied. [The second objection]. It will be injustice
in God to punish for those sins for which He is already satisfied
for by Christ.

Answ. Rebel, rebel, there are some in Christ and some out of Him.
[1]. They that are in Him have their sins forgiven, and they
themselves made new creatures, and have the Spirit of the Son, which
is a holy, living, self-denying Spirit. And they that are thus in
Jesus Christ are so far off from delighting in sin, that sin is the
greatest thing that troubleth them; and O how willing would they
be rid of the very thoughts of it (Psa 119:113). It is the grief
of their souls, when they are in a right frame of spirit, that they
can live no more to the honour and glory of God than they do; and
in all their prayers to God, the breathings of their souls are as
much sanctifying grace as pardoning grace, that they might live a
holy life. They would as willing live holy here as they would be
happy in the world to come; they would as willingly be cleansed
from the filth of sin as to have the guilt of it taken away; they
would as willingly glorify God here as they would be glorified by
Him hereafter (Phil 3:6-22). [2]. But there are some that are out
of Christ, being under the Law; and as for all those, let them be
civil or profane, they are such as God accounts wicked; and I say,
as for those, if all the angels in Heaven can drag them before the
judgment-seat of Christ, they shall be brought before it to answer
for all their ungodly deeds; and being condemned for them, if all
the fire in Hell will burn them, they shall be burned there, if
they die in that condition (Jude 15). And, therefore, if you love
your souls, do not give way to such a wicked spirit. "Let no man
deceive you with" such "vain words," as to think, because Christ
hath made satisfaction to God for sin, therefore you may live in
your sins. O no, God forbid that any should think so, "for because
of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of
disobedience" (Eph 5:6).

Thus have I, reader, given thee a brief discourse touching the
Covenant of Works and the Covenant of Grace, also of the nature
of the one, together with the nature of the other. I have also in
this discourse endeavoured to show you the condition of them that
are under the Law, how sad it is, both from the nature of the
covenant they are under, and also by the carriage of God unto them
by that covenant. And now, because I would bring all into as little
a compass as I can, I shall begin with the use and application of
the whole in as brief a way as I can, desiring the Lord to bless
it to thee.

[USE AND APPLICATION].

A use of examination about the old covenant.

First. And, first of all, let us here begin to examine a little
touching the covenant you stand before God in, whether it be the
Covenant of Works or the Covenant of Grace; [The first use is a
use of examination]. and for the right doing of this, I shall lay
down this proposition--namely, that all men naturally come into the
world under the first of these, which is called the old covenant,
or the Covenant of Works, which is the Law; "And were all by nature
the children of wrath, even as others"; which they could not be, had
they not been under the law; for there are none that are under the
other covenant that are still the children of wrath, but the children
of faith, the children of the promise, the accepted children, the
children not of the bond-woman, but of the free (Gal 4:28-31).

[Quest.] Now here lieth the question. Which of these two covenants
art thou under, soul?

Answ. I hope I am under the Covenant of Grace.

Quest. But what ground hast thou to think that thou art under that
blessed covenant, and not rather under the Covenant of Works, that
strict, that soul-damning covenant?

Answ. What ground? Why, I hope I am.

Quest. But what ground hast thou for this thy hope? for a hope
without a ground is like a castle built in the air, that will never
be able to do thee any good, but will prove like unto that spoken
of in Job 8, "Whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall
be" like "a spider's web. He shall lean upon his house, but it
shall not stand; he shall hold it fast," as thou wouldst thy hope,
it is like, "but it shall not endure" (Job 8:13-15).

Answ. My hope is grounded upon the promises; what else should it
be grounded upon?

Reply. Indeed, to build my hope upon Christ Jesus, upon God in
Christ, through the promise, and to have this hope rightly, by the
shedding abroad of the love of God in the heart, it is a right-grounded
hope (Rom 5:1-7).

Quest. But what promises in the Scripture do you find your hope built
upon? and how do you know whether you do build your hope upon the
promises in the Gospel, the promises of the new covenant, and not
rather on the promises of the old covenant, for there are promises
in that as well as in the other?

Answ. I hope that if I do well I shall be accepted; because God
hath said I shall (Gen 4:7).

Reply. O soul, if thy hope be grounded there, thy hope is not
grounded upon the Gospel promises, or the new covenant, but verily
upon the old; for these words were spoken to Cain, a son of the
old covenant; and they themselves are the tenor and scope of that;
for that runs thus: "Do this, and thou shalt live. The man that
doth these things shall live by them. If thou do well, thou shalt
be accepted" (Lev 18:5; Eze 20:11; Rom 10:5; Gal 3:12; Gen 4:7).

Reply. Why, truly, if a man's doing well, and living well, and
his striving to serve God as well as he can, will not help him to
Christ, I do not know what will; I am sure sinning against God will
not.

Quest. Did you never read that Scripture which saith, "Israel, which
followed after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the
law of righteousness"? (Rom 9:30-32).

Object. But doth not the Scripture say, "Blessed are they that do
His commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life"?
(Rev 22:14).

Answ. There is first, therefore, to be inquired into, whether to keep
His commandments be to strive to keep the Law as it is a Covenant
of Works, or whether it be meant of the great commandments of the
New Testament which are cited in 1 John 3:22,23--"And whatsoever
we ask we receive of Him, because we keep His commandments, and
do those things that are pleasing in His sight." But what do you
mean, John? Do you mean the covenant of the Law, or the covenant
to the Gospel? Why, "this is His commandment," saith he, "That we
should believe on the name of His Son Jesus Christ, and love one
another," as the fruits of this faith, "as He gave us commandment."
If it be of the old covenant, as a Covenant of Works, then the
Gospel is but a lost thing. If it were of works, then no more of
grace; therefore it is not the old covenant, as the old covenant.

Quest. But what do you mean by these words--the old covenant as
the old covenant? Explain your meaning.

Answ. My meaning is, that the Law is not to be looked upon for
life, so as it was handed out from Mount Sinai, if ever thou wouldst
indeed be saved; though after thou hast faith in Christ, thou
mayest and must solace thyself in it, and take pleasure therein,
to express thy love to Him who hath already saved thee by His
own blood, without thy obedience to the law, either from Sinai or
elsewhere.

Quest. Do you think that I do mean that my righteousness will save
me without Christ? If so, you mistake me, for I think not so; but
this I say, I will labour to do what I can; and what I cannot do,
Christ will do for me.

Answ. Ah, poor soul, this is the wrong way too; for this is to make
Christ but a piece of a Saviour; thou wilt do something, and Christ
shall do the rest; thou wilt set thy own things in the first place,
and if thou wantest at last, then thou wilt borrow of Christ; thou
art such an one that dost Christ the greatest injury of all. First,
in that thou dost undervalue His merits by preferring of thy own
works before His; and, secondly, by mingling of thy works thy dirty,
ragged righteousness with His.

Quest. Why, would you have us do nothing? Would you have us make
Christ such a drudge as to do all, while we sit idling still?

Answ. Poor soul, thou mistakest Jesus Christ in saying thou makest
Him a drudge in letting Him do all; I tell thee, He counts it a
great glory to do all for thee, and it is a great dishonour unto
Him for thee so much as to think otherwise. And this the saints
of God that have experienced the work of grace upon their souls do
count it also the same--"Saying, Thou art worthy to take the book,
and to open the seals thereof" (Rev 5:9). "Worthy is the Lamb, that
was slain, to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength,
and honour, and glory, and blessing" (Verse 12). And why so? read
again in the 9th verse, "For Thou wast slain, and hast redeemed
us to God by Thy" own "blood" (See also Eph 1:6,7). "To the praise
of the glory of His grace--in whom we have redemption through His
blood."

Reply. All this we confess, that Jesus Christ died for us; but he
that thinks to be saved by Christ, and liveth in his sins, shall
never be saved.

Answ. I grant that. But this I say again, a man must not make his
good doings the lowest round of the ladder by which he goeth to
Heaven--that is, he that will and shall go to Heaven, must, wholly
and alone, without any of his own things, venture his precious soul
upon Jesus Christ and His merits.

Quest. What, and come to Christ as a sinner?

Answ. Yea, with all thy sins upon thee, even as filthy as ever thou
canst.

Quest. But is not this the way to make Christ to loath us? You know
when children fall down in the dirt, they do usually before they
go home make their clothes as clean as they can, for fear their
parents should chide them; and so I think should we.

Answ. This comparison is wrongly applied, if you bring it to show
us how we must do when we come to Christ. He that can make himself
clean hath no need of Christ; for the whole, the clean, and
righteous have no need of Christ, but those that are foul and sick.
Physicians, you know, if they love to be honoured, they will not
bid the patients first make themselves whole, and then come to
them; no, but bid them come with their sores all running on them,
as the woman with her bloody issue (Mark 5). And as Mary Magdalene
with her belly full of devils, and the lepers all scabbed; and that
is the right coming to Jesus Christ.

Reply. Well, I hope that Christ will save me, for His promises and
mercy are very large; and as long as He hath promised to give us
life, I fear my state the less.

Answ. It is very true, Christ's promises are very large, blessed
be the Lord for ever; and also so is His mercy; but notwithstanding
all that, there are many go in at the broad gate; and therefore I
say, your business is seriously to inquire whether you are under
the first or second covenant; for unless you are under the second,
you will never be regarded of the Lord, forasmuch as you are a
sinner (Heb 8:9). And the rather, because if God should be so good
to you as to give you a share in the second, you shall have all
your sins pardoned, and for certain have eternal life, though you
have been a great sinner. But do not expect that thou shalt have
any part or share in the large promises and mercy of God, for the
benefit and comfort of thy poor soul, whilst thou art under the
old covenant; because so long thou art out of Christ, through whom
God conveyeth His mercy, grace, and love to sinners. "For all the
promises of God in Him are yea, and in Him amen." Indeed, His mercy,
grace, and love are very great, but they are treasured up in Him,
"given forth in Him, through Him." "But God, who is rich in mercy,
for His great love wherewith He loved us--that He might show the
exceeding riches of His grace"--but which way?--"in His kindness
towards us through Jesus Christ."

But out of Christ thou shalt find God a just God, a sin-avenging
God, a God that will by no means spare the guilty; and be sure that
every one that is found out of Jesus Christ will be found guilty in
the judgment-day, upon whom the wrath of God shall smoke to their
eternal ruin. Now, therefore, consider of it, and take the counsel
of the Apostle, in 2 Corinthians 13:5, which is, to examine thyself
whether thou art "in the faith," and to prove thy ownself whether
thou hast received the Spirit of Christ into thy soul, whether thou
hast been converted, whether thou hast been born again, and made
a new creature, whether thou hast had thy sins washed away in the
blood of Christ, whether thou hast been brought from under the old
covenant into the new; and do not make a slight examination, for
thou hast a precious soul either to be saved or damned.

And that thou mayest not be deceived, consider that it is one
thing to be convinced, and another to be converted; one thing to
be wounded, and another to be killed, and so to be made alive again
by the faith of Jesus Christ. When men are killed, they are killed
to all things they lived to before, both sin and righteousness, as
all their old faith and supposed grace that they thought they had.
Indeed, the old covenant will show thee that thou art a sinner,
and that a great one too; but the old covenant, the Law, will not
show thee, without the help of the Spirit, that thou are without
all grace by nature; no; but in the midst of thy troubles thou
wilt keep thyself from coming to Christ by persuading thy soul that
thou art come already, and hast some grace already. O, therefore,
be earnest in begging the Spirit, that thy soul may be enlightened,
and the wickedness of thy heart discovered, that thou mayest see
the miserable state that thou art in by reason of sin and unbelief,
which is the great condemning sin; and so in a sight and sense of thy
sad condition, if God should deal with thee in severity according
to thy deservings. Do thou [now] cry to God for faith in a crucified
Christ, that thou mayest have all thy sins washed away in His blood,
and such a right work of grace wrought in thy soul that may stand
in the judgment-day. Again,

Second. In the next place, you know I told you that a man might go
a great way in a profession, and have many excellent gifts, [Second
use]. so as to do many wondrous works, and yet be but under the
Law; from hence you may learn not to judge yourselves to be the
children of God, because you may have some gifts of knowledge or
understanding more than others: no, for thou mayest be the knowingest
man in all the country as to head-knowledge, and yet be but under
the law, and so consequently under the curse, notwithstanding that,
1 Corinthians 13. Now, seeing it is so, that men may have all this
and yet perish, then what will become of those that do no good at
all, and have no understanding, neither of their own sadness, nor
of Christ's mercy? O, sad! Read with understanding, Isaiah 27:11,
"Therefore He that made them will not have mercy on them, and He
that formed them will show them no favour" (See also 2 Thess 1:8,
9).

Now there is one thing which, for want of, most people do miscarry
in a very sad manner, and that is, because they are not able to
distinguish between the nature of the Law and the Gospel. O, people,
people, your being blinded here as to the knowledge of this is one
great cause of the ruining of many. As Paul saith, "While Moses
is read," or while the law is discovered, "the veil is upon their
heart" (2 Cor 3:15) that is, the veil of ignorance is still upon
their hearts, so that they cannot discern either the nature of
the law or the nature of the Gospel, they being so dark and blind
in their minds, as you may see, if you compare it with Chronicles
4:3, 4. And truly I am confident, that were you but well examined,
I doubt many of you would be found so ignorant that you would not
be able to give a word of right answer concerning either the Law or
the Gospel. Nay, my friends, set the case, one should ask you what
time you spend, what pains you take, to the end you may understand
the nature and difference of these two covenants, would you not say,
if you should speak the truth, that you did not so much as regard
whether there were two or more? Would you not say, I did not think
of covenants, or study the nature of them? I thought that if I had
lived honestly, and did as well as I could, that God would accept
of me, and have mercy upon me, as He had on others. Ah, friends,
this is the cause of the ruin of thousands; for if they are blinded
to this, both the right use of the law, and also of the Gospel, is
hid from their eyes, and so for certain they will be in danger of
perishing most miserably, poor souls that they are, unless God, of
His mere mercy and love, doth rend the veil from off their hearts,
the veil of ignorance, for that is it which doth keep these poor
souls in this besotted and blindfolded condition, in which if they
die they may be lamented for, but not helped; they may be pitied,
but not preserved from the stoke of God's everlasting vengeance.

A legal spirit.

In the next place, if you would indeed be delivered from the first
into the second covenant, I do admonish you to the observing of
these following particulars. First. Have a care that you do not
content yourselves, though you do good works--that is, which in
themselves are good. Secondly. In and with a legal spirit, which
are done these ways as followeth.

First. If you do anything commanded in Scripture, and your doing
of it do think that God is well pleased therewith, because you, as
you are religious men, do do the same. Upon this mistake was Paul
himself in danger of being destroyed; for he thought, because he
was zealous, and one of the strictest sects for religion, therefore
God would have been good unto him, and have accepted his doings,
as it is clear, for he counted them his gain (Phil 3:4-8). Now this
is done thus--When a man doth think that because he thinks he is
more sincere, more liberal, with more difficulty, or to the weakening
of his estate; I say, if a man, because of this doth think that
God accepteth his labour, it is done from an old-covenant spirit.

Again; some men think that they shall be heard because they have
prayer in their families, because they can pray long, and speak
excellent expressions, or express themselves excellently in prayer,
that because they have great enlargements in prayer, I say, that
therefore to think that God doth delight in their doings, and accept
their works, this is from a legal spirit.

Again; some men think that because their parents have been religious
before them, and have been indeed the people of God, they think if
they also do as to the outward observing of that which they learned
from their forerunners, that therefore God doth accept them; but this
also is from a wrong spirit; and yet how many are there in England
at this day that think the better of themselves merely upon that
account; ay, and think the people of God ought to think so too,
not understanding that it is ordinary for an Eli to have a Hophni
and a Phinehas, both sons of Belial; also a good Samuel to have a
perverse offspring; likewise David an Absalom. I say, their being
ignorant of, or else negligent in regarding this, they do think
that because they do spring from such and such, as the Jews in their
generation did, that therefore they have a privilege with God more
than others, when there is no such thing; but for certain, if the
same faith be not in them which was in their forerunners, to lay
hold of the Christ of God in the same spirit as they did, they
must utterly perish, for all their high conceits that they have of
themselves (John 8:33-35; Matt 3:7-9).

Second. When people come into the presence of God without having
their eye upon the Divine Majesty, through the flesh and blood
of the Son of Mary, the Son of God, then also do they come before
God, and do whatsoever they do from a legal spirit, an old-covenant
spirit. As, for instance, you have some people, it is true, they
will go to prayer, in appearance very fervently, and will plead
very hard with God that He would grant them their desires, pleading
their want, and the abundance thereof; they will also plead with
God His great mercy, and also His free promises; but yet they
neglecting the aforesaid body or Person of Christ, the righteous
Lamb of God, to appear before Him in, I say, in thus doing they
do not appear before the Lord no otherwise than in an old-covenant
spirit; for they go to God as a merciful Creator, and they themselves
as His creatures; not as He is, their Father in the Son, and they
His children by regeneration through the Lord Jesus. Ay, and though
they may call God their Father, in the notion--not knowing what
they say, only having learned such things by tradition--as the
Pharisees did, yet Christ will have His time to say to them, even
to their faces, as He did once to the Jews, Your father, for all this
your profession, is the devil, to their own grief and everlasting
misery (John 8:44).

Third. The third thing that is to be observed, if we would not be
under the Law, or do things in a legal spirit, is this--to have a
care that we do none of the works of the holy Law of God for life,
or acceptance with Him; no, nor of the Gospel neither. To do the
works of the law to the end we may be accepted of God, or that we
may please Him, and to have our desires of Him, is to do things
from a legal or old-covenant spirit, and that is expressly laid down
where it is said, "To him that worketh is the reward not reckoned
of grace, but of debt"; that is, he appears before God through the
Law, and his obedience to it (Rom 4:4,5). And again, though they
be in themselves Gospel-ordinances, as baptism, breaking of bread,
hearing, praying, meditating, or the like; yet, I say, if they be
not done in the right spirit, they are thereby used as a hand by
the devil to pull thee under the Covenant of Works, as in former
times he used circumcision, which was no part of the Covenant
of Works, the Ten Commands, but a seal of the righteousness of
faith; yet, I say, they being done in a legal spirit, the soul was
thereby brought under the Covenant of Works, and so most miserably
destroyed unawares to itself, and that because there was not a
right understanding of the nature and terms of the said covenants.
And so it is now; souls being ignorant of the nature of the old
covenant, do even by their subjecting to several Gospel ordinances,
run themselves under the old covenant, and fly off from Christ,
even when they think they are acoming closer to him. O, miserable!
If you would know when or how this is done, whether in one particular
or more, I shall show you as followeth--

1. That man doth bring himself under the Covenant of Works, by Gospel
ordinances, when he cannot be persuaded that God will have mercy
upon him except he do yield obedience to such or such a particular
thing commanded in the Word. This is the very same spirit that
was in the false brethren (spoken of Acts 15; Galatians, the whole
Epistle), whose judgment was, that unless such and such things were
done, "they could not be saved." As now-a-days we have also some
that say, Unless your infants be baptized they cannot be saved;23
and others say, unless you be rightly baptized, you have no ground
to be assured that you are believers, or members of churches; which
is so far off from being so good as a legal spirit, that it is the
spirit of blasphemy, as is evident, because they do reckon that
the Spirit, righteousness, and faith of Jesus, and the confession
thereof, is not sufficient to declare men to be members of the Lord
Jesus; when, on the other side, though they be rank hypocrites,
yet if they do yield an outward subjection to this or that, they
are counted presently communicable members, which doth clearly
discover that there is not so much honour given to the putting on
the righteousness of the Son of God as there is given to that which
a man may do, and yet go to Hell within an hour after; nay, in the
very doing of it doth shut himself for ever from Jesus Christ.

2. Men may do things from a legal or old-covenant spirit when they
content themselves with their doing of such and such a thing, as
prayers, reading, hearing, baptism, breaking of bread, or the like;
I say, when they can content themselves with the thing done, and
sit down at ease and content because the thing is done. As, for
instance, some men being persuaded that such and such a thing is
their duty, and that unless they do do it, God will not be pleased
with them, nor suffer them to be heirs of His kingdom, they from
this spirit do rush into and do the thing, which being done, they
are content, as being persuaded that now they are without doubt in
a happy condition, because they have done such things, like unto
the Pharisee, who, because he had done this and the other thing,
said therefore, in a bragging way, "Lord, I thank thee that I am
not as this publican"; for I have done thus and thus; when, alas!
the Lord give him never a good word for his labour, but rather a
reproof.

3. That man doth act from a legal spirit who maketh the strictness
of his walking the ground of his assurance for eternal life. Some
men, all the ground they have to believe that they shall be saved,
it is because they walk not so loose as their neighbours, they
are not so bad as others are, and therefore they question not but
that they shall do well. Now this is a false ground, and a thing
that is verily legal, and savours only of some slight and shallow
apprehensions of the old covenant. I call them shallow apprehensions,
because they are not right and sound, and are such as will do the
soul no good, but beguile it, in that the knowledge of the nature
of this covenant doth not appear to the soul, only some commanding
power it hath on the soul, which the soul endeavouring to give up
itself unto, it doth find some peace and content, and especially
if it find itself to be pretty willing to yield itself to its
commands. And is not this the very ground of thy hoping that God
will save thee from the wrath to come? If one should ask thee what
ground thou hast to think thou shalt be saved, wouldst thou not
say, Truly, because I have left my sins, and because I am more
inclinable to do good, [Do not think that I am against the order
of the Gospel]. and to learn, and get more knowledge; I endeavour
to walk in church order, as they call it, and therefore I hope God
hath done a good work for me, and I hope will save my soul. Alas,
alas! this is a very trick of the devil to make souls build the
ground of their salvation upon this their strictness, and abstaining
from the wickedness of their former lives, and because they desire
to be stricter and stricter. Now, if you would know such a man or
woman, you shall find them in this frame--namely, when they think
their hearts are good, then they think also that Christ will have
mercy upon them; but when their corruptions work, then they doubt
and scruple until again they have their hearts more ready to do the
things contained in the law and ordinances of the Gospel. Again,
such men do commonly cheer up their hearts, and encourage themselves
still to hope all shall be well, and that because they are not so
bad as the rest, but more inclinable than they, saying, I am glad
I am not as this publican, but better than he, more righteous than
he (Luke 18:11).

4. This is a legal and old-covenant spirit that secretly persuades
the soul that if ever it will be saved by Christ, if must be fitted
for Christ by its getting of a good heart and good intentions to
do this and that for Christ; I say, that the soul when it comes
to Christ may not be rejected or turned off; when in deed and in
truth this is the very way for the soul to turn itself from Jesus
Christ, instead of turning to Him; for such a soul looks upon
Christ rather to be a painted Saviour or a cypher than a very and
real Saviour. Friend, if thou canst fit thyself, what need hast
thou of Christ? If thou cant get qualifications to carry to Christ
that thou mightst be accepted, thou dost not look to be accepted
in the Beloved. Shall I tell thee? Thou art as if a man should say,
I will make myself clean, and then I will go to Christ that He may
wash me; or like a man possessed, that will first cast the devils
out of himself, and then come to Christ for cure from Him. Thou,
must, therefore, if thou wilt so lay hold of Christ as not to be
rejected by Him; I say, thou must come to Him as the basest in the
world, more fit to be damned, if thou hadst thy right, than to
have the least smile, hope, or comfort from Him. Come with the fire
of Hell in thy conscience, come with thy heart hard, dead, cold,
full of wickedness and madness against thy own salvation; come as
renouncing all thy tears, prayers, watchings, fastings; come as a
blood-red sinner; do not stay from Christ till thou hast a greater
sense of thy own misery, nor of the reality of God's mercy; do not
stay while thy heart is softer and thy spirit in a better frame,
but go against thy mind, and against the mind of the devil and sin,
throw thyself down at the foot of Christ, with a halter about thy
neck, and say, Lord Jesus, hear a sinner, a hard-hearted sinner,
a sinner that deserveth to be damned, to be cast into Hell; and
resolve never to return, or to give over crying unto Him, till thou
do find that He hath washed thy conscience from dead works with
His blood virtually, and clothed thee with His own righteousness,
and make thee complete in Himself; this is the way to come to
Christ.

THE USE OF THE NEW COVENANT

Now a few words to the second doctrine, and so I shall draw towards
a conclusion.

FIRST USE. The doctrine doth contain in it very much comfort to
thy [The use, for the second doctrine]. soul who art a new-covenant
man, or one of those who are under the new covenant. There is,
First, pardon of sin; and, Second, the manifestation of the same;
and, Third, as power to cause thee to persevere through faith to
the very end of thy life.

First, There is, first, pardon of sin, which is not in the old
covenant; for in that there is nothing but commands; and if not
obeyed, condemned. O, but there is pardon of sin, even of all thy
sins, against the first and second covenant, under which thou art,
and that freely upon the account of Jesus Christ the righteousness,
He having in thy name, nature, and in the room of thy person,
fulfilled all the whole law in Himself for thee, and freely giveth
it unto thee. O, though the law be a ministration of death and
condemnation, yet the Gospel, under which thou art, is the ministration
of life and salvation (2 Cor 3:6-9). Though they that live and die
under the first covenant, God regardeth them not (Heb 8:9). Yet they
that are under the second are as the apple of His eye (Deu 32:10;
Psa 17:8; Zech 2:8). Though they that are under the first, the Law,
are "called to blackness, and darkness, and tempest, the sound of
a trumpet," and a burning mountain, which sight was so terrible,
that Moses said, "I exceedingly fear and quake" (Heb 12:18-22).
"But ye are come unto Mount Sion, and unto the city of the living
God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels,
to the general assembly and church of the firstborn," whose names
"are written in Heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the
spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus," to blessed Jesus,
"the Mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling,
that speaketh better things than that of Abel" (Heb 12:22-24). Even
forgiveness of sins (Eph 1:7).

Second, The covenant that thou art under doth allow of repentance
in case thou chance to slip or fall by sudden temptation; but the
law allows of none (Rev 2:5; Gal 3:10). The covenant that thou art
under allows thee strength also; but the law is only a sound of
words, commanding words, but no power is given by them to fulfill
the things commanded (Heb 12:19). Thou that art under this second,
art made a son; but they that art under that first, are slaves and
vagabonds (Gen 4:12). Thou that art under this, hast a Mediator,
that is to stand between justice and thee; but they under the other,
their mediator is turned an accuser, and speaketh most bitter things
against their souls (1 Tim 2:5; John 5:45). Again; the way that
thou hast into Paradise is a new and living way--mark, a living way;
but they that are under the old covenant, their way into Paradise
is a killing and destroying way (Heb 10:20; Gen 3:24). Again; thou
has the righteousness of God to appear before God withal; but they
under the old covenant have nothing but the righteousness of the
Law, which Paul counts dirt and dung (Phil 3:7-9). Thou hast that
which will make thee perfect, but the other will not do so--"The
law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did,"
which is the Son of God, "by the which we draw nigh unto God" (Heb
7:19).

Third, The new covenant promiseth thee a new heart, as I said before;
but the old covenant promiseth none; and a new spirit, but the old
covenant promiseth none (Eze 36:26). The new covenant conveyeth
faith, but the old one conveyeth none (Gal 3). Through the new
covenant the love of God is conveyed into the heart; but through
the old covenant there is conveyed none of it savingly through Jesus
Christ. Romans 5. The new covenant doth not only give a promise
of life, but also with that the assurance of life, but the old one
giveth none; the old covenant wrought wrath in us and to us, but
the new one worketh love (Rom 4:15; Gal 5:6). Thus much for the
first use.

SECOND USE. As all these, and many more privileges, do come to thee
through or by the new covenant, and that thou mightst not doubt of
the certainty of these glorious privileges, God hath so ordered it
that they do all come to thee by way of purchase, being obtained
for thee, ready to thy hand, by that one Man Jesus, who is the
Mediator, or the Person that hath principally to do both with God
and thy soul in the things pertaining to this covenant; so that
now thou mayst look on all the glorious things that are spoken of
in the new covenant, and say, All these must be mine; I must have
a share in them; Christ hath purchased them for me, and given them
to me. Now I need not to say, O! but how shall I come by them? God
is holy, I am a sinner; God is just, and I have offended. No; but
thou mayst say, Though I am vile, and deserve nothing, yet Christ
is holy, and He deserveth all things; though I have so provoked
God by breaking His law that He could not in justice look upon me,
yet Christ hath so gloriously paid the debt that now God can say,
Welcome, soul, I will give thee grace, I will give thee glory,
thou shalt lie in My bosom, and go no more out; My Son hath pleased
Me, He hath satisfied the loud cries of the Law and justice, that
called for speedy vengeance on thee; He hath fulfilled the whole
Law, He hath brought in everlasting righteousness (Dan 9:24,25).
He hath overcome the devil, He hath washed away thy sins with His
most precious blood, He hath destroyed the power of death, and
triumphs over all the enemies. This He did in His own Person,
as a common Jesus, for all persons in their stead, even as for so
many as shall come in to Him; for His victory I give to them, His
righteousness I give to them, His merits I bestow on them, and
look upon them holy, harmless, undefiled, and for ever comely in
my eye, through the victory of the Captain of their salvation (1
Cor 15:55-57).

And that thou mayest, in deed and in truth, not only hear and read
this glorious doctrine, but be found one that hath the life of it
in thy heart, thou must be much in studying of the two covenants,
the nature of the one, and the nature of the other, and the conditions
of them that are under them both. Also, thou must be well-grounded
in the manner of the victory, and merits of Christ, how they are
made thine.

First, And here thou must, in the first place, believe that the
babe that was born of Mary, lay in a manger at Bethlehem, in the
time of Caesar Augustus; that He, that babe, that child, was the
very Christ.

Second, Thou must believe that in the days of Tiberius Caesar,
when Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and Pontius Pilate governor
of Judea, that in those days He was crucified, or hanged on a tree
between two thieves, which by computation, or according to the best
account, is above sixteen hundred years since. 24

Third, Thou must also believe that when He did hang upon that cross
of wood on the Mount Calvary, that then He did die there for the
sins of those that did die before He was crucified; also for their
sins that were alive at the time of His crucifying, and also that
He did by that one death give satisfaction to God for all those
that should be born and believe in Him after His death, even unto
the world's end. I say, this thou must believe, upon pain of eternal
damnation, that by that one death, that when He did die, He did put
an end to the curse of the Law and sin [This is the doctrine that
I will live and die by, and be willing to be damned if it saves me
not. I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power
of God to salvation; therefore I preach Christ crucified, to the
Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness (Rom 1:16; 1
Cor 1:23).] and at that time by His death on the Cross, and by His
resurrection out of Joseph's sepulchre, He did bring in a sufficient
righteousness to clothe thee withal completely--"For by one offering
He hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified." Not that He
should often offer Himself--"for then must He often have suffered
since the foundation of the world; but now ONCE in the end of the
world hath He appeared to put," or do, "away sin by the sacrifice
of Himself"--namely, when He hanged on the Cross. For it is by the
offering up of the body of this blessed Jesus Christ ONCE for all.
Indeed, other priests may offer oftentimes sacrifices and offerings
which can never take away sins; but this Man, this Jesus, this
anointed and appointed sacrifice, when He had offered ONE sacrifice
for sins, for ever sat down on the right hand of God (Heb 10:14;
9:24,25).

[A word of advice]. But because thou in thy pursuit after the faith
of the Gospel wilt be sure to meet with devils, heretics, particular
corruptions, as unbelief, ignorance, the spirit of works animated
on by suggestions, false conclusions, with damnable doctrines, I
shall therefore briefly, besides what hath been already said, speak
a word or two before I leave thee of further advice, especially
concerning these two things. First, How thou art to conceive of
the Saviour. Second, How thou art to make application of Him.

First. For the Saviour. 1. Thou must look upon Him to be very God
and very Man; not man only, nor God only, but God and Man in one
Person, both natures joined together, for the putting of Him in a
capacity to be a suitable Saviour; suitable, I say, to answer both
sides and parties, with whom He hath to do in the office of His
Mediatorship and being of a Saviour. 2. Thou must not only do this,
but thou must also consider and believe that even what was done
by Jesus Christ, it was not done by one nature without the other;
but thou must consider that both natures, both the Godhead and the
manhood, did gloriously concur and join together in the undertaking
of the salvation of our bodies and souls; not that the Godhead
undertook anything without the manhood, neither did the manhood
do anything without the virtue and union of the Godhead; and thou
must of necessity do this, otherwise thou canst not find any sound
ground and footing for thy soul to rest upon.

For if thou look upon any of these asunder--that is to say, the
Godhead without the manhood, or the manhood without the Godhead--thou
wilt conclude that what was done by the Godhead was not done for
man, being done without the manhood; or else, that that which was
done with the manhood could not answer Divine justice, in not doing
what it did by the virtue and in union with the Godhead; for it
was the Godhead that gave virtue and value to the suffering of the
manhood, and the manhood being joined therewith, that giveth us an
interest into the heavenly glory and comforts of the Godhead.

What ground can a man have to believe that Christ is his Saviour,
if he do not believe that He suffered for sin in his nature? And
what ground also can a man have to think that God the Father is
satisfied, being infinite, if he believe not also that He who gave
the satisfaction was equal to Him who was offended?

Therefore, beloved, when you read of the offering of the body of
the Son of Man for our sins, then consider that He did it in union
with, and by the help of, the eternal Godhead. "How much more
shall the blood of Christ, who, through the eternal Spirit, offered
Himself without spot to God, purge your consciences from dead
works," etc.

And when thou readest of the glorious works and splendour of the
Godhead in Christ, then consider that all that was done by the
Godhead, it was done as it had union and communion with the manhood.
And then thou shalt see that the devil is overcome by God-man;
sin, death, Hell, the grave, and all overcome by Jesus, God-man,
and then thou shalt find them overcome indeed. They must needs be
overcome when God doth overcome them; and we have good ground to
hope the victory is ours, when in our nature they are overcome.

Second. The second thing is, how to apply, or to make application
of this Christ to the soul. And for this there are to be considered
the following particulars--

1. That when Jesus Christ did thus appear, being born of Mary, He
was looked upon by the Father as if the sin of the whole world was
upon Him; nay, further, God did look upon Him and account Him the
sin of man--"He hath made Him to be sin for us," (2 Cor 5:21) that
is, God made His Son Jesus Christ our sin, or reckoned Him to be,
not only a sinner, but the very bulk of sin of the whole world, and
condemned Him so severely as if He had been nothing but sin. "For
what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh,
God sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for
sin, condemned sin in the flesh"--that is, for our sins condemned
His Son Jesus Christ; as if He had in deed and truth been our
very sin, although altogether "without sin" (Rom 8:3; 2 Cor 5:21).
Therefore, as to the taking away of thy curse, thou must reckon
Him to be made sin for thee. And as to His being thy justification,
thou must reckon Him to be thy righteousness; for, saith the
Scripture, "He," that is, God, "hath made HIM to be SIN for us,
though He knew no sin, that we might be made the RIGHTEOUSNESS of
God in HIM."

2. Consider for whose sakes all this glorious design of the Father
and the Son was brought to pass; and that you shall find to be for
man, for sinful man (2 Cor 8:9).

3. The terms on which it is made ours; and that you will find to be
a free gift, merely arising from the tender-heartedness of God--you
are "justified freely by His grace, through the redemption that
is in Christ, whom God hath set forth to be a Propitiation through
faith in His blood," etc. (Rom 3:25).

4. How men are to reckon it theirs; and that is, upon the same terms
which God doth offer it, which is freely, as they are worthless
and undeserving creatures, as they are without all good, and also
unable to do any good. This, I say, is the right way of applying
the merits of Christ to thy soul, for they are freely given to
thee, a poor sinner, not for anything that is in thee, or done by
thee, but freely as thou art a sinner, and so standest in absolute
need thereof.

And, Christian, thou art not in this thing to follow thy sense
and feeling, but the very Word of God. The thing that doth do the
people of God the greatest injury, it is their too little hearkening
to what the Gospel saith, and their too much giving credit to what
the Law, sin, the devil, and conscience saith; and upon this very
ground to conclude that because there is a certainty of guilt upon
the soul, therefore there is also for certain, by sin, damnation
to be brought upon the soul. This is now to set the Word of God
aside, and to give credit to what is formed by the contrary; but
thou must give more credit to one syllable of the written Word
of the Gospel than thou must give to all the saints and angels in
Heaven and earth; much more than to the devil and thy own guilty
conscience.

Let me give you a parable:--There was a certain man that had
committed treason against his king; but forasmuch as the king had
compassion upon him, he sent him, by the hand of a faithful messenger,
a pardon under his own hand and seal; but in the country where this
poor man dwelt, there were also many that sought to trouble him,
by often putting of him in mind of his treason, and the law that
was to be executed on the offender. Now which way should this man
so honour his king, but as by believing his handwriting, which was
the pardon. Certainly he would honour him more by so doing than to
regard all the clamours of his enemies continually against him.

Just thus it is here: thou having committed treason against the
King of Heaven, He through compassion, for Christ's sake, hath
sent thee a pardon; but the devil, the Law, and thy conscience do
continually seek to disturb thee by bringing thy sins afresh into
thy remembrance. But now, wouldst thou honour thy King? Why then,
he that believeth "the record that God hath given of His Son," hath
set to his seal that God is true. "And this is the record, that
God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in His Son"
(1 John 5:11). And therefore, my brethren, seeing God our Father
hath sent us damnable traitors a pardon from Heaven, even all the
promises of the Gospel, and also hath sealed to the certainty of
it with the heart-blood of His dear Son, let us not be daunted,
though our enemies, with terrible voices, do bring our former life
never so often into our remembrance.

Object. But, saith the soul, how, if after I have received a pardon,
I should commit treason again? What should I do then?

Answ. Set the case: thou hast committed abundance of treason, He
hath by Him abundance of pardons--"Let the wicked forsake his way,
and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the
LORD, and He will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for He will
abundantly pardon" (Isa 55:7).

Sometimes I myself have been in such a strait that I have been almost
driven to my wit's ends with the sight and sense of the greatness
of my sins; but calling to mind that God was God in His mercy, pity,
and love, as well as in His holiness, justice, etc.; and again,
considering the ability of the satisfaction that was given to
holiness and justice, to the end there might be way made for sinners
to lay hold of this mercy; I say, I considering this, when tempted
to doubt and despair, I have answered in this manner--

"Lord, here is one of the greatest sinners that ever the ground
bare; a sinner against the Law, and a sinner against the Gospel. I
have sinned against light, and I have sinned against mercy. And now,
Lord, the guilt of them breaks my heart. The devil also he would
have me despair, telling of me that Thou art so far from hearing
my prayers in this my distress, that I cannot anger Thee worse
than to call upon Thee; for saith he, Thou art resolved for ever
to damn, and not to grant me the least of Thy favour; yet, Lord,
I would fain have forgiveness. And Thy Word, though much may be
inferred from it against me, yet it saith, If I come unto Thee,
Thou will in nowise cast me out. Lord, shall I honour Thee most
by believing Thou canst pardon my sins, or by believing Thou canst
not? Shall I honour Thee most by believing Thou wilt pardon my
sins, or by believing Thou wilt not? Shall I honour the blood of Thy
Son also by despairing that the virtue thereof is not sufficient,
or by believing that it is sufficient to purge me from all my
blood-red and crimson sins? Surely, Thou that couldst find so much
mercy as to pardon Manasseh, Mary Magdalene, the three thousand
murderers, persecuting Paul, murderous and adulterous David, and
blaspheming Peter--Thou that offeredst mercy to Simon Magus, a
witch, and didst receive the astrologers and conjurors in the 19th
of Acts--Thou hast mercy enough for one poor sinner. Lord, set
the case: my sins were bigger than all these, and I less deserved
mercy than any of these, yet Thou hast said in Thy Word that he
that cometh to thee Thou wilt in "nowise cast out." And God hath
given comfort to my soul, even to such a sinner as I am. And I tell
you, there is no way so to honour God, and to beat out the devil,
as to stick to the truth of God's Word and the merits of Christ's
blood by believing. When Abraham believed--even against hope and
reason--he gave glory to God (Rom 4). And this is our victory,
even our faith (1 John 5:4). Believe, and all things are possible
to you. He that believeth shall be saved. He that believeth on the
Son hath everlasting life, and shall never perish, neither shall
any man pluck them out of Christ's Father's hands."

And if thou dost indeed believe this, thou wilt not only confess
Him as the Quakers do--that is, that He was born at Bethlehem of
Mary, suffered on Mount Calvary under Pontius Pilate, was dead and
buried, rose again, and ascended, etc.; for all this they confess,
and in the midst of their confession they do verily deny that His
death on that Mount Calvary did give satisfaction to God for the sins
of the world, and that His resurrection out of Joseph's sepulchre
is the cause of our justification in the sight of God, angels, and
devils; but, I say, if thou dost believe these things indeed, thou
dost believe that then, so long ago, even before thou wast born,
He did bear thy sins in His own body, which then was hanged on
the tree, and never before nor since; that thy old man was then
crucified with Him, namely, in the same body then crucified (See
1 Peter 2:24; and Rom 6:6). This is nonsense to them that believe
not; but if thou do indeed believe, thou seest it so plain, and
yet such a mystery, that it makes thee wonder. But,

[THIRD USE]. In the third place, this glorious doctrine of the new
covenant, and the Mediator thereof, will serve for the comforting,
and the maintaining of the comfort, of the children of the new
covenant this way also--that is, that He did not only die and rise
again, but that He did ascend in His own Person into Heaven to
take possession thereof for me, to prepare a place there for me,
standeth there in the second part of His suretyship to bring me
safe in my coming thither, and to present me in a glorious manner,
without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing; that He is there
exercising of His priestly office for me, pleading the perfection
of His own righteousness for me, and the virtue of His blood for
me; that He is there ready to answer the accusations of the Law,
devil, and sin for me. Here thou mayst through faith look the very
devil in the face, and rejoice, saying, O Satan! I have a precious
Jesus, a soul-comforting Jesus, a sin-pardoning Jesus. Here thou
mayst hear the biggest thunder-crack that the Law can give, and
yet not be daunted. Here thou mayst say, O Law! thou mayst roar
against sin, but thou canst not reach me; thou mayst curse and
condemn, but not my soul; for I have righteous Jesus, a holy Jesus,
a soul-saving Jesus, and He hath delivered me from thy threats,
from thy curses, from thy condemnations; I am out of thy reach,
and out of thy bounds; I am brought into another covenant, under
better promises, promises of life and salvation, free promises to
comfort me without my merit, even through the blood of Jesus, the
satisfaction given to God for me by Him; therefore, though thou
layest my sins to my charge, and sayest thou wilt prove me guilty,
yet so long as Christ is above ground, and hath brought in everlasting
righteousness, and given that to me, I shall not fear thy threats,
thy charges, thy soul-scarring denunciations; my Christ is all, hath
done all, and will deliver me from all that thou, and whatsoever
else can bring an accusation against me. Thus also thou may say when
death assaulteth thee--O death, where is thy sting? Thou mayst bite
indeed, but thou canst not devour; I have comfort by and through
the one Man Jesus; Jesus Christ, He hath taken thee captive, and
taken away thy strength; He hath pierced thy heart, and let out
all thy soul-destroying poison; therefore, though I see thee, I am
not afraid of thee; though I feel thee, I am not daunted; for thou
hast lost thy sting in the side of the Lord Jesus; through Him I
overcome thee, and set foot upon thee. Also, O Satan! though I hear
thee grumble, and make a hellish noise, and though thou threaten me
very highly, yet my soul shall triumph over thee, so long as Christ
is alive and can be heard in Heaven; so long as He hath broken thy
head, and won the field of thee; so long as thou are in prison, and
canst not have thy desire. I, therefore, when I hear thy voice, do
pitch my thoughts on Christ my Saviour, and do hearken when He will
say, for He will speak comfort; He saith, He hath got the victory,
and doth give to me the crown, and causeth me to triumph through
His most glorious conquest.

Nay, my brethren, the saints under the Levitical Law, who had not
the new covenant sealed or confirmed any further than by promise
that it should be; I say, they, when they thought of the glorious
privileges that God had promised should come, though at that time
they were not come, but seen afar off, how confidently were they
persuaded of them, and embraced them, and were so fully satisfied
as touching the certainty of them, that they did not stick at the
parting with all for the enjoying of them. [Shall not we then that
see all things already done before us make it a strong argument
to increase our faith (Heb 11).] How many times doth David in the
Psalms admire, triumph, and persuade others to do so also, through
the faith that he had in the thing that was to be done? Also Job,
in what faith doth he say he should see his Redeemer, though He
had not then shed one drop of blood for him, yet because He had
promised so to do; and this was signified by the blood of bulls
and goats. Also Samuel, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Zechariah, etc., how
gloriously in confidence did they speak of Christ, and His death,
blood, conquest, and everlasting priesthood, even before He did
manifest Himself in the flesh which He took of the Virgin. [For
they were so many sure promises, with a remembrance in them, also
for the better satisfaction of them that believed them]. We that
have lived since Christ, have more ground to hope than they under
the old covenant had, though they had the word of the just God for
the ground of their faith. Mark, they had only the promise that He
should and would come; but we have the assured fulfilling of those
promises, because He is come; they were told that He should spill
His blood, but we do see He hath spilt His blood; they ventured all
upon His standing Surety for them, but we see He hath fulfilled,
and that faithfully too, the office of His Suretyship, in that,
according to the engagement, He hath redeemed us poor sinners;
they ventured on the new covenant, though not actually sealed, only
"because He judged Him faithful who had promised" (Heb 11:11). But
we have the covenant sealed, all things are completely done, even
as sure as the heart-blood of a crucified Jesus can make it.

There is a great difference between their dispensation and ours
for comfort, even as much as there is between the making of a bond
with a promise to seal it, and the sealing of the same. It was
made indeed in their time, but it was not sealed until the time
the blood was shed on the Mount Calvary; and that we might indeed
have our faith mount up with wings like an eagle, he showeth us what
encouragement and ground of faith we have to conclude we shall be
everlastingly delivered, saying, "For where a testament" or covenant
"is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator. For
a testament is of force after men are dead: otherwise it is of no
strength at all while the testator liveth. Whereupon neither the
first testament was dedicated without blood" (Heb 9:16-18). As
Christ's blood was the confirmation of the new covenant, yet it
was not sealed in Abraham, Isaac, or Jacob's days to confirm the
covenant that God did tell them of, and yet they believed; therefore
we ought to give the more earnest heed to believe the things that
we have heard, and not in any wise to let them be questioned; and
the rather, because you see the testament is not only now made,
but confirmed; not only spoken of and promised, but verily sealed
by the death and blood of Jesus, who is the Testator thereof.

My brethren, I would not leave you ignorant of this one thing, that
though the Jews had the promise of a sacrifice, of an everlasting
High Priest that should deliver them, yet they had but the promise;
for Christ was not sacrificed, and was not then come a high priest
of good things to come; only the type, the shadow, the figure, the
ceremonies they had, together with Christ's engaging as Surety to
bring all things to pass that were promised should come, and upon
that account received and saved.

It was with them and their dispensation as this similitude gives
you to understand:--Set the case that there be two men who make a
covenant that the one should give the other ten thousand sheep on
condition the other give him two thousand pound; but forasmuch as
the money is not to be paid down presently, therefore if he that
buyeth the sheep will have any of them before the day of payment,
the creditor requesteth a surety; and upon the engagement of the
surety there is part of the sheep given to the debtor even before
the day of payment, but the other at and after. So it is here; Christ
covenanted with His Father for His sheep--"I lay down My life for
My sheep," saith He--but the money was not to be paid down so soon
as the bargain was made, as I have already said, yet some of the
sheep were saved even before the money was paid, and that because
of the Suretyship of Christ; as it is written, "Being justified," or
saved, "freely by His grace through the redemption," or purchase,
"that is in Christ Jesus. Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation
through faith in His blood, to declare His righteousness for the
remission of sins that are past," or the sinners who died in the
faith before Christ was crucified, through God's forbearing till the
payment was paid; to declare, I say, at this time His righteousness;
"that He might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth
in Jesus" (Rom 3:24-26).

The end of my speaking of this is, to show you that it is not wisdom
now to doubt whether God will save you or no, but to believe, because
all things are finished as to our justification: the covenant not
only made, but also sealed; the debt paid, the prison doors flung
off of the hooks, with a proclamation from Heaven of deliverance
to the prisoners of hope, saying, "Turn you to the stronghold, ye
prisoners of hope, even today do I declare," saith God, "that I
will render double unto thee" (Zech 9:12). And, saith Christ, when
He was come, "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He hath
anointed Me to preach the Gospel," that is, good tidings "to the
poor," that their sins should be pardoned, that their souls shall
be saved. "He hath sent Me to heal the broken-hearted, to preach
deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind,
to set at liberty them that are bruised," and to comfort them that
mourn, "to preach the acceptable year of the Lord" (Luke 4:18,19).

Therefore here, soul, thou mayst come to Jesus Christ for anything
thou wantest, as to a common treasure-house, being the principal
Man for the distributing of the things made mention of in the new
covenant, He having them all in His own custody by right of purchase;
for He hath bought them all, paid for them all. Dost thou want
faith? then come for it to the Man Christ Jesus (Heb 12:2). Dost
thou want the Spirit? then ask it of Jesus. Dost thou want wisdom?
Dost thou want grace of any sort? Dost thou want a new heart? Dost
thou want strength against thy lusts, against the devil's temptations?
Dost thou want strength to carry thee through afflictions of body,
and afflictions of spirit, through persecutions? Wouldst thou
willingly hold out, stand to the last, and be more than a conqueror?
then be sure thou meditate enough on the merits of the blood of
Jesus, how He hath undertaken for thee, that He hath done the work
of thy salvation in thy room, that He is filled of God on purpose
to fill thee, and is willing to communicate whatsoever is in Him
or about Him to thee. Consider this, I say, and triumph in it.

Again; this may inform us of the safe state of the saints as touching
their perseverance, that they shall stand though Hell rages, though
the devil roareth, and all the world endeavoureth the ruin of the
saints of God, though some, through ignorance of the virtue of the
offering of the body of Jesus Christ, do say a man may be a child
of God today, and a child of the devil tomorrow, which is gross
ignorance; for what? Is the blood of Christ, the death of Christ,
the resurrection of Christ, of no more virtue than to bring in for
us an uncertain salvation? or must the effectualness of Christ's
merits, as touching our perseverance, be helped on by the doings
of man? Surely they that are predestinated are also justified;
and they that are justified, they shall be glorified (Rom 8:30).
Saints, do not doubt of the salvation of your souls, unless you do
intend to undervalue Christ's blood; and do not think but that He
that hath begun the good work of His grace in you will perfect it
to the second coming of our Lord Jesus (Phil 1:6). Should not we,
as well as Paul, say, I am persuaded that nothing shall separate
us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus (Rom 8). O let
the saints know, that unless the devil can pluck Christ out of
Heaven, he cannot pull a true believer out of Christ. When I say
a true believer, I do mean such an one as hath the faith of the
operation of God in his soul.

Lastly, Is there such mercy as this? such privileges as these? Is
there so much ground of comfort, and so much cause to be glad? Is
there so much store in Christ, and such a ready heart in Him to
give it to me? Hath His bleeding wounds so much in them, as that
the fruits thereof should be the salvation of my soul, of my sinful
soul, as to save me, sinful me, rebellious me, desperate me? What
then? Shall not I now be holy? Shall not I now study, strive, and
lay out myself for Him that hath laid out Himself soul and body
for me? Shall I now love ever a lust or sin? Shall I now be ashamed
of the cause, ways, people, or saints of Jesus Christ? Shall I now
yield my members as instruments of righteousness, seeing my end
is everlasting life? (Rom 6). Shall Christ think nothing too dear
for me? and shall I count anything too dear for Him? Shall I grieve
Him with my foolish carriage? Shall I slight His counsel by following
of my own will? Thus, therefore, the doctrine of the new covenant
doth call for holiness, engage to holiness, and maketh the children
of that covenant to take pleasure therein. Let no man, therefore,
conclude on this, that the doctrine of the Gospel is a licentious
doctrine; but if they do, it is because they are fools, and such
as have not tasted of the virtue of the blood of Jesus Christ;
neither did they ever feel the nature and sway that the love of
Christ hath in the hearts of His. And thus also you may see that
the doctrine of the Gospel is of great advantage to the people of
God that are already come in, or to them that shall at the consideration
hereof be willing to come in, to partake of the glorious benefits
of this glorious covenant. But, saith the poor soul,

Object. Alas! I doubt this is too good for me.

Inquirer. Why so, I pray you?

Object. Alas! because I am a sinner.

Reply. Why, all this is bestowed upon none but sinners, as it is
written, While we were ungodly, Christ died for us (Rom 5:6,8).
"He came into the world to save sinners" (1 Tim 1:15).

Object. O, but I am one of the chief of sinners.

Reply. Why, this is for the chief of sinners--"Christ Jesus came
into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief," saith Paul (1
Tim 1:15).

Object. O, but my sins are so big, that I cannot conceive how I
should have mercy.

Reply. Why, soul? Didst thou ever kill anybody? Didst thou ever burn
any of thy children in the fire to idols? Hast thou been a witch?
Didst thou ever use enchantments and conjuration? [You that are
resolved to go on in your sins, meddle not with this]. Didst thou
ever curse, and swear, and deny Christ? And yet if thou hast,
there is yet hopes of pardon; yea, such sinners as these have been
pardoned, as appears by these and the like Scriptures, 2 Chronicles
33:1-10, compared with verses 12, 13. Again, Acts 19:19, 20; 8:22,
compared with verse 9; Matthew 26:74, 75.

Object. But though I have not sinned in such kind of sins, yet it
may be I have sinned as bad.

Answ. That cannot likely be; yet though thou hast, still there is
ground of mercy for thee, forasmuch as thou art under the promise
(John 6:37).

The unpardonable sin.

Object. Alas! man, I am afraid that I have sinned the unpardonable
sin, and therefore there is no hope for me.

Answ. Dost thou know what the unpardonable sin, the sin against
the Holy Ghost, is? and when it is committed?

Reply. It is a sin against light.

Answ. That is true; yet every sin against light is not the sin
against the Holy Ghost.

Reply. Say you so?

Answ. Yea, and I prove it thus--If every sin against light had been
the sin that is unpardonable, then had David and Peter and others
sinned that sin; but though they did sin against light, yet they
did not sin that sin; therefore every sin against light is not the
sin against the Holy Ghost, the unpardonable sin.

Object. But the Scripture saith, "If we sin willfully after that we
have received the knowledge of the Truth, there remaineth no more
sacrifice for sins; but a certain fearful looking for of judgment
and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries."

Answ. Do you know what that willful sin is?

Reply. Why, what is it? Is it not for a man to sin willingly after
enlightening?

Answ. 1. Yes; yet doubtless every willing sin is not that; for then
David had sinned it when he lay with Bathsheba; and Jonah, when he
fled from the presence of the Lord; and Solomon also, when he had
so many concubines. 2. But that sin is a sin that is of another
nature, which is this--For a man after he hath made some profession
of salvation to come alone by the blood of Jesus, together with
some light and power of the same upon his spirit; I say, for him
after this knowingly, willfully, and despitefully to trample upon
the blood of Christ shed on the Cross, and to count it an unholy
thing, or no better than the blood of another man, and rather to
venture his soul any other way than to be saved by this precious
blood. And this must be done, I say, after some light (Heb 6:4,5)
despitefully (Heb 10:29) knowingly (2 Peter 2:21) and willfully (Heb
10:26 compared with verse 29) and that not in a hurry and sudden
fit, as Peter's was, but with some time beforehand to pause upon
it first, with Judas; and also with a continued resolution never
to turn or be converted again; "for it is impossible to renew such
again to repentance," they are so resolved and so desperate (Heb
6).

Quest. And how sayest thou now? Didst thou ever, after thou hadst
received some blessed light from Christ, willfully, despitefully,
and knowingly stamp or trample the blood of the Man Christ Jesus
under thy feet? and art thou for ever resolved so to do?

Answ. O no; I would not do that willfully, despitefully, and
knowingly, not for all the world.

Inquiry. But yet I must tell you, now you put me in mind of it,
surely sometimes I have most horrible blasphemous thoughts in me
against God, Christ, and the Spirit. May not these be that sin I
trow?

Answ. Dost thou delight in them? Are they such things as thou takest
pleasure in?

Reply. O no; neither would I do it for a thousand worlds. O, methinks
they make me sometimes tremble to think of them. But how and if I
should delight in them before I am aware?

Answ. Beg of God for strength against them, and if at any time thou
findest thy wicked heart to give way in the least thereto, for that
is likely enough, and though thou find it may on a sudden give way
to that Hell-bred wickedness that is in it, yet do not despair,
forasmuch as Christ hath said, "All manner of sins and blasphemies
shall be forgiven to the sons of men. And whosoever speaketh a word
against the Son of man," that is Christ, as he may do with Peter,
through temptation, yet upon repentance, "it shall be forgiven him"
(Matt 12:31, 32).

Object. But I thought it might have been committed all on a sudden,
either by some blasphemous thought, or else by committing some
other horrible sin.

Answ. For certain, this sin and the commission of it doth lie in a
knowing, willful, malicious, or despiteful, together with a final
trampling the blood of sweet Jesus under foot (Heb 10).

Object. But it seems to be rather a resisting of the Spirit, and the
motions thereof, than this which you say; for, first, its proper
title is the sin against the Holy Ghost; and again, "They have done
despite unto the Spirit of grace"; so that it rather seems to be,
I say, that a resisting of the Spirit, and the movings thereof, is
that sin.

Answ. First. For certain, the sin is committed by them that do as
before I have said--that is, by a final, knowing, willful, malicious
trampling under foot the blood of Christ, which was shed on Mount
Calvary when Jesus was there crucified. And though it be called
the sin against the Spirit, yet as I said before, every sin against
the Spirit is not that; for if it were, then every sin against the
light and convictions of the Spirit would be unpardonable; but that
is an evident untruth, for these reasons--First, Because there be
those who have sinned against the movings of the Spirit, and that
knowingly too, and yet did not commit that sin; as Jonah, who when
God had expressly by His Spirit bid him go to Nineveh, he runs
thereupon quite another way. Secondly, Because the very people that
have sinned against the movings of the Spirit are yet, if they
do return, received to mercy. Witness also Jonah, who though he
had sinned against the movings of the Spirit of the Lord in doing
contrary thereunto, "yet when he called," as he saith, "to the
Lord," out of the belly of Hell, "the LORD heard him, and gave
him deliverance, and set him again about his work." Read the whole
story of that Prophet. But,

Answ. Second. I shall show you that it must needs be willfully,
knowingly, and a malicious rejecting of the Man Christ Jesus as
the Saviour--that is, counting His blood, His righteousness, His
intercession in His own Person, for he that rejects one rejects
all, to be of no value as to salvation; I say, this I shall show
you is the unpardonable sin, and then afterwards in brief show you
why it is called the sin against the Holy Ghost.

[Must be a willfully and maliciously rejecting the Saviour.]

1. That man that doth reject, as aforesaid, the blood, death,
righteousness, resurrection, ascension, and intercession of the Man
Christ, doth reject that sacrifice, that blood, that righteousness,
that victory, that rest, that God alone hath appointed for
salvation--"Behold the Lamb," or sacrifice, "of God" (John 1:29).
"We have redemption through His blood" (Eph 1:7). That I may "be
found in Him"--to wit, in Christ's righteousness, with Christ's
own personal obedience to His Father's will (Phil 3:7-10). By His
resurrection comes justification (Rom 4:25). His intercession now
in His own Person in the Heavens, now absent from His saints, is
the cause of the saints' perseverance (Rom 8:33-39).

2. They that reject this sacrifice, and the merits of this Christ,
which He by Himself hath brought in for sinners, have rejected Him
through whom alone all the promises of the New Testament, together
with all the mercy discovered thereby, doth come unto poor creatures--"For
all the promises of God in Him are yea, and in Him amen, unto the
glory of God" (2 Cor 1:20). And all spiritual blessings are made
over to us through Him; that is, through and in this Man, which is
Christ, we have all our spiritual, heavenly, and eternal mercies
(Eph 1:3,4).

3. He that doth knowingly, willfully, and despitefully reject this
Man for salvation doth sin the unpardonable sin, because there is
never another sacrifice to be offered. "There is no more offering
for sin.--There remaineth no more sacrifice for sin," (Heb 10:18-26);
namely, than the offering of the body of Jesus Christ a sacrifice
once for all (Heb 10:10,14, compared with 18, 26). No; but they that
shall, after light and clear conviction, reject the first offering
of His body for salvation, do crucify Him the second time, which
irrecoverably merits their own damnation--"For it is impossible for
those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly
gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, and have tasted
the good Word of God, and the powers of the world to come, if they
shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they
crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put Him to an open
shame" (Heb 6:4-6). "If they shall fall away, to renew them again
unto repentance." And why so? Seeing, saith the Apostle, they do
crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and do put Him to an
open shame. O, then, how miserably hath the devil deceived some,
in that he hath got them to reject the merits of the first offering
of the body of Christ, which was for salvation, and got them to
trust in a fresh crucifying of Christ, which unavoidably brings
their speedy damnation.

4. They that do reject this Man, as aforesaid, do sin the unpardonable
sin, because in rejecting Him they do make way for the justice of
God to break out upon them, and to handle them as it shall find
them; which will be, in the first place, sinners against the first
covenant; and also despising of, even the life, and glory, and
consolations, pardon, grace, and love, that is discovered in the
second covenant, forasmuch as they reject the Mediator and priest
of the same, which is the Man Jesus. And the man that doth so, I
would fain see how his sins should be pardoned, and his soul saved,
seeing the means, which is the Son of Man, the Son of Mary, and His
merits, are rejected; "for," saith He, "if you believe not that I
am He, you shall," mark, "you shall," do what you can; "you shall,"
appear where you can; "you shall," follow Moses' law, or any holiness
whatsoever, "ye shall die in your sins" (John 8:24). So that, I say,
the sin that is called the unpardonable sin is a knowing, willful,
and despiteful rejecting of the sacrificing of the Son of Man the
first time for sin.

[Why it is called the sin against the Holy Ghost.]

And now to show you why it is called the sin against the Holy Ghost,
as in these Scriptures, (Matt 12; Heb 10; Mark 3).

1. Because they sin against the manifest light of the Spirit, as I
said before; it is a sin against the light of the Spirit--that is,
they have been formerly enlightened into the nature of the Gospel
and the merits of the Man Christ, and His blood, righteousness,
intercession, etc.; and also professed and confessed the same,
with some life and comfort in and through the profession of Him;
yet now against all that light, maliciously, and with despite to
all their former profession, turn their backs and trample upon the
same.

2. It is called the sin against the Holy Ghost because such a
person doth, as I may say, lay violent hands on it; one that sets
himself in opposition to, and is resolved to resist all the motions
that do come in from the Spirit to persuade the contrary. For I do
verily believe that men, in this very rejecting of the Son of God,
after some knowledge of Him, especially at their first resisting
and refusing of Him, they have certain motions of the Spirit of
God to dissuade them from so great a soul-damning act. But they,
being filled with an overpowering measure of the spirit of the
devil, do despite unto these convictions and motions by studying
and contriving how they may answer them, and get from under
the convincing nature of them, and therefore it is called a doing
despite unto the Spirit of Grace (Heb 10:29). And so,

3. In that they do reject the beseeching of the Spirit, and all its
gentle entreatings of the soul to tarry still in the same doctrine.

4. In that they do reject the very testimony of the Prophets and
Apostles with Christ Himself; I say, their testimony, through the
Spirit, of the power, virtue, sufficiency, and prevalency of the
blood, sacrifice, death, resurrection, ascension, and intercession
of the Man Christ Jesus, of which the Scriptures are full both in the
Old and New Testament, as the Apostle saith, for all the Prophets
from Samuel, with them that follow after, have showed of these
days--that is, in which Christ should be a sacrifice for sin (Acts
3:24, compared with verses 6, 13-15, 18, 26). Again, saith, he, "He
therefore that despiseth not man, but God; who hath also given unto
us His Holy Spirit" (1 Thessalonians 4:8); that is, he rejecteth
or despiseth the very testimony of the Spirit.

5. It is called the sin against the Holy Ghost, because he that
doth reject and disown the doctrine of salvation by the Man Christ
Jesus, through believing in Him, doth despise, resist, and reject
the wisdom of the Spirit; for the wisdom of God's Spirit did never
more appear than its finding out a way for sinners to be reconciled
to God by the death of this Man; and therefore Christ, as He is a
sacrifice, is called the wisdom of God. And again, when it doth reveal
the Lord Jesus it is called the "Spirit of wisdom and revelation
in the knowledge of Him" (Eph 1:17).

Object. But, some may say, the slighting or rejecting of the Son
of Man, Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of Mary, cannot be the sin that
is unpardonable, as is clear from that Scripture in Matthew 12:32,
where He Himself saith, "Whosoever speaketh a word against the Son
of Man, it shall be forgiven him; but whosoever speaketh against the
Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world,
neither in the world to come." Now by this it is clear that the sin
that is unpardonable is one thing, and the sin against the Son of
Man another; that sin that is against the Son of Man is pardonable;
but if that was the sin against the Holy Ghost, it would not be
pardonable; therefore the sin against the Son of Man is not the
sin against the Holy Ghost, the unpardonable sin.

Answ. 1. I do know full well that there are several persons that
have been pardoned, yet have sinned against the Son of Man, and
that have for a time rejected Him, as Paul (1 Tim 1:13, 14) also
the Jews (Acts 2:36,37). But there was an ignorant rejecting of
Him, without the enlightening, and taste, and feeling of the power
of the things of God, made mention in Hebrews 6:3-6. 2. There is
and hath been a higher manner of sinning against the Son of Man,
which also hath been, and is still, pardonable; as in the case
of Peter, who in a violent temptation, in a mighty hurry, upon a
sudden denied Him, and that after the revelation of the Spirit of
God from Heaven to him, that He, Jesus, was the Son of God (Matt
16:16-18). This also is pardonable, if there be a coming up again
to repentance. O, rich grace! O, wonderful grace! that God should
be so full of love to His poor creatures, that though they do sin
against the Son of God, either through ignorance, or some sudden
violent charge breaking loose from Hell upon them, but yet take if
for certain that if a man do slight and reject the Son of God and
the Spirit in that manner as I have before hinted--that is, for a
man after some great measure of the enlightening by the Spirit of
God, and some profession of Jesus Christ to be the Saviour, and
His blood that was shed on the mount without the gates of Jerusalem
to be the Atonement; I say, he that shall after this knowingly,
willfully, and out of malice and despite reject, speak against, and
trample that doctrine under foot, resolving for ever so to do, and
if he there continue, I will pawn my soul upon it, he hath sinned
the unpardonable sin, and shall never be forgiven, neither in this
world, nor in the world to come; or else these Scriptures that
testify the truth of this must be scrabbled out, and must be looked
upon for mere fables, which are these following--"For if after they
have escaped the pollutions of the world, through the knowledge of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ," which is the Son of Man (Matt
16:13) "and are again entangled therein, and overcome," which must
be by denying this Lord that brought them (2 Peter 2:1) "the latter
end is worse with them than the beginning," (2 Peter 2:20). For it
is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted
of the heavenly gift--and have tasted the good Word of God, and
the powers of the world to come; if they shall fall away, not only
fall, but fall away, that is, finally (Heb 10:29) "it is impossible
to renew them again unto repentance"; and the reason is rendered,
"seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God," which is the
Son of Man, "afresh, and put Him to an open shame" (Heb 6:4-6).
Now if you would further know what it is to crucify the Son of God
afresh, it is this--for to undervalue and trample under foot the
merits and virtue of His blood for remission of sins, as is clearly
manifested in Hebrews 10:26-28, where it is said, "For if we sin
willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the Truth,
there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful
looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, which shall devour
the adversaries. He that despised Moses' law died without mercy,--of
how much sorer punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy,
who hath trodden under foot the Son of God," there is the second
crucifying of Christ, which the Quakers think to be saved by, "and
hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified,
an unholy thing,"--and then followeth--"and hath done despite unto
the Spirit of Grace?" (verse 29). All that Paul had to keep him
from this sin was, his ignorance in persecuting the Man and merits
of Jesus Christ (Acts 9). But I obtained mercy, saith he, because
I did it ignorantly (1 Tim 1:13). And Peter, though he did deny Him
knowingly, yet he did it unwillingly, and in a sudden and fearful
temptation, and so by the intercession of Jesus escaped that
danger. So, I say, they that commit this sin, they do it after
light, knowingly, willfully, and despitefully, and in the open view
of the whole world reject the Son of Man for being their Lord and
Saviour, and in that it is called the sin against the Holy Ghost.
It is a name most fit for this sin to be called the sin against
the Holy Ghost, for these reasons but now laid down; for this sin
is immediately committed against the motions, and convictions, and
light of the Holy Spirit of God that makes it its business to hand
forth and manifest the truth and reality of the merits and virtues
of the Lord Jesus, the Son of Man. And therefore beware, Ranters and
Quakers, for I am sure you are the nearest that sin by profession,
which is, indeed, the right committing of it, of any persons that
I do know at this day under the whole heavens, forasmuch as you
will not venture the salvation of your souls on the blood shed on
Mount Calvary, out of the side of that Man that was offered up in
sacrifice for all that did believe (Luke 23:33). In that His offering
up of His body at that time, either before He offered it, or that
have, do, or shall believe on it for the time since, together with
that time that He offered it, though formerly you did profess that
salvation was wrought out that way, by that sacrifice then offered,
and also seemed to have some comfort thereby; yea, insomuch that
some of you declared the same in the hearing of many, professing
yourselves to be believers of the same. O, therefore, it is sad for
you that were once enlightened, and have tasted these good things,
and yet, notwithstanding all your profession, you are now turned
from the simplicity that is in Christ to another doctrine, which
will be your destruction, if you continue in it; for without blood
there is no remission (Heb 9:22).

Many other reasons might be given, but that I would not be too
tedious; yet I would put in this caution, that if there be any
souls that be but now willing to venture their salvation upon the
merits of a naked Jesus, I do verily for the present believe they
have not sinned that sin, because there is still a promise holds
forth itself to such a soul where Christ saith, "Him that cometh
to me, I will in nowise," for nothing that he hath done, "cast him
out" (John 6:37). That promise is worth to be written in letters
of gold.

Objections answered for their comfort who would have their part in
the New Covenant.

Object. But, alas, though I should never sin that sin, yet I have
other sins enough to damn me.

Answ. What though thou hadst the sins of a thousand sinners, yet
if thou come to Christ, He will save thee (John 6:37; See also
Hebrews 7:25).

Object. Alas, but how shall I come? I doubt I do not come as I
should do? My heart is naught and dead; and, alas! then how should
I come?

Answ. Why, bethink thyself of all the sins that ever thou didst
commit, and lay the weight of them all upon thy heart, till thou
art down loaden with the same, and come to Him in such a case as
this, and He will give thee rest for thy soul (Matt 11:28-30). And
again; if thou wouldst know how thou shouldst come, come as much
undervaluing thyself as ever thou canst, saying, Lord, here is a
sinner, the basest in all the country; if I had my deserts, I had
been damned in Hell-fire long ago; Lord, I am not worthy to have
the least corner in the Kingdom of Heaven; and yet, O that Thou
wouldst have mercy! Come like Benhadad's servants to the king of
Israel, with a rope about thy neck (1 Kings 20:31,32) and fling
thyself at Christ's feet, and lie there a while, striving with Him
by thy prayers, and I will warrant thee speed (Matt 11:28-30; John
6:37).

Object. O, but I am not sanctified.

Answ. He will sanctify thee, and be made thy sanctification also
(1 Cor 1:30; 6:10,11).

Object. O, but I cannot pray.

Answ. To pray is not for thee to down on thy knees, and say over
a many Scripture words only; for that thou mayest do, and yet do
nothing but babble. But if thou from a sense of thy baseness canst
groan out thy heart's desire before the Lord, He will hear thee,
and grant thy desire; for He can tell what is the meaning of the
groanings of the Spirit (Rom 8:26,27).

Object. O, but I am afraid to pray, for fear my prayers should be
counted as sin in the sight of the great God.

Answ. That is a good sign that thy prayers are more than bare words,
and have some prevalence at the Throne of Grace through Christ
Jesus, or else the devil would never seek to labour to beat thee
off from prayer by undervaluing thy prayers, telling thee they are
sin; for the best prayers he will call the worst, and the worst he
will call the best, or else how should he be a liar?

Object. But I am afraid the day of grace is past; and if it should
be so, what should I do then?

Answ. Truly, with some men indeed it doth fare thus, that the day
of grace is at an end before their lives are at end. Or thus, the
day of grace is past before the day of death is come, as Christ
saith, "If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day,
the things which belong unto thy peace," that is, the word of grace
or reconciliation, "but now they are hid from thine eyes" (Luke
19:41,42). But for the better satisfying of thee as touching this
thing, consider these following things--

First, Doth the Lord knock still at the door of thy heart by His
Word and Spirit? If so, then the day of grace is not past with thy
soul; for where He doth so knock, there He doth also proffer and
promise to come in and sup, that is, to communicate of His things
unto them, which he would not do was the day of grace past with
his soul (Rev 3:20).

Object. But how should I know whether Christ do so knock at my
heart as to be desirous to come in? That I may know also, whether
the day of grace be past with me or no?

Answ. Consider these things--1. Doth the Lord make thee sensible of
thy miserable state without an interest in Jesus Christ, and that
naturally thou hast no share in Him, no faith in Him, no communion
with Him, no delight in Him, or love in the least to Him? If He
hath, and is doing this, He hath, and is knocking at thy heart. 2.
Doth He, together with this, put into thy heart an earnest desire
after communion with Him, together with holy resolutions not to
be satisfied without real communion with Him. 3. Doth He sometimes
give thee some secret persuasions, though scarcely discernible,
that thou mayest attain, and get an interest in Him? 4. Doth He
now and then glance in some of the promises into thy heart, causing
them to leave some heavenly savour, though but for a very short
time, on thy spirit? 5. Dost thou at some time see some little
excellency in Christ? And doth all this stir up in thy heart some
breathing after Him? If so, then fear not, the day of grace is not
past with thy poor soul; for if the day of grace should be past
with such a soul as this, then that Scripture must be broken where
Christ saith, "Him that cometh to Me, I will in nowise," for nothing,
by no means, upon no terms whatsoever, "cast out." (John 6:37).

Object. But surely, if the day of grace was not past with me, I
should not be so long without an answer of God's love to my soul;
that therefore doth make me mistrust my state the more is, that I
wait and wait, and yet am not delivered.

Answ. 1. Hast thou waited on the Lord so long as the Lord hath waited
on thee? It may be the Lord hath waited on thee these twenty, or
thirty, yes, forty years or more, and thou hath not waited on Him
seven years. Cast this into thy mind, therefore, when Satan tells
thee that God doth not love thee, because thou hast waited so long
without an assurance, for it is his temptation, for God did wait
longer upon thee, and was fain to send to thee by His ambassadors
time after time; and, therefore, say thou, I will wait to see what
the Lord will say unto me; and the rather, because He will speak
peace, for He is the Lord thereof. But, 2. Know that it is not thy
being under trouble a long time that will be an argument sufficiently
to prove that thou art past hopes; nay, contrariwise, for Jesus Christ
did take our nature upon Him, and also did undertake deliverance
for those, and bring it in for them who "were all their LIFETIME
subject to bondage" (Heb 2:14,15).

Object. But alas! I am not able to wait, all my strength is gone;
I have waited so long, I can wait no longer.

Answ. It may be thou hast concluded on this long ago, thinking
thou shouldst not be able to hold out any longer; no, not a year,
a month, or a week; nay, it may be, not so long. It may be in the
morning thou hast thought thou shouldst not hold out till night;
and at night, till morning again; yet the Lord hath supported thee,
and kept thee in waiting upon Him many weeks and years; therefore
that is but the temptation of the devil to make thee think so, that
he might drive thee to despair of God's mercy, and so to leave off
following the ways of God, and to close in with thy sins again.
O therefore do not give way unto it, but believe that thou shalt
"see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on
the Lord, be of good courage, and He shall strengthen thine heart;
wait, I say, on the Lord" (Psa 28:13,14). And that thou mayest so
do, consider these things--(1.) If thou, after thou hast waited
thus long, shouldst now give over, and wait no longer, thou wouldst
lose all thy time and pains that thou hast taken in the way of God
hitherto, and wilt be like to a man that, because he sought long
for gold, and did not find it, therefore turned back from seeking
after it, though he was hard by it, and had almost found it, and
all because he was loath to look and seek a little further. (2.)
Thou wilt not only lose thy time, but also lose thy own soul, for
salvation is nowhere else but in Jesus Christ (Acts 4:12). (3.)
Thou wilt sin the highest sin that ever thou didst sin before, in
drawing finally back, insomuch that God may say, My soul shall have
no pleasure in him (Heb 10:38). But, 2. Consider, thou sayest, all
my strength is gone, and therefore how should I wait? Why, at that
time when thou feelest and findest thy strength quite gone, even
that is the time when the Lord will renew and give thee fresh
strength. "The youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men
shall utterly fall: but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew
their strength: they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall
run and not be weary; they shall walk, and not faint" (Isa 40:30,31).

Object. But though I do wait, yet if I be not elected to eternal
life, what good will all my waiting do me? "For it is not of him
that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that showeth
mercy." Therefore, I say, if I should not be elected, all is in
vain.

Answ. 1. Why in the first place, to be sure thy backsliding from God
will not prove thy election, neither thy growing weary of waiting
upon God. But, 2. Thou art, it may be, troubled to know whether
thou art elected; and, sayest thou, If I did but know that, that
would encourage me in my waiting on God. Answ. I believe thee;
but mark, thou shalt not know thy election in the first place, but
in the second--that is to say, thou must first get acquaintance
with God in Christ, which doth come by thy giving credit to His
promises, and records which He hath given of Jesus Christ's blood
and righteousness, together with the rest of His merits--that is,
before thou canst know whether thou are elected, thou must believe
in Jesus Christ so really, that thy faith laying hold of, and
drinking and eating the flesh and blood of Christ, even so that
there shall be life begotten in thy soul by the same; life from
the condemnings of the Law; life from the guilt of sin; life over
the filth of the same; life also to walk with God in His Son and
ways; the life of love to God the Father, and Jesus Christ His Son,
saints and ways and that because they are holy, harmless, and such
that are altogether contrary to iniquity.

For these things must be in thy soul as a forerunner of thy being
made acquainted with the other; God hath these two ways to show
His children their election--(1.) By testimony of the Spirit--that
is, the soul being under trouble of conscience and grieved for
sin, the Spirit doth seal up the soul by its comfortable testimony;
persuading of the soul that God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven
all those sins that lie so heavy on the conscience, and that do
so much perplex the soul, by showing it that that Law, which doth
utter such horrible curses against it, is by Christ's blood satisfied
and fulfilled (Eph 1:13,14). (2.) By consequence--that is, the soul
finding that God hath been good unto it, in that He hath showed
it its lost state and miserable condition, and also that He hath
given it some comfortable hope that He will save it from the same;
I say, the soul, from a right sight thereof, doth, or may, draw
this conclusion, that if God had not been minded to have saved it,
He would not have done for it such things as these. But for the
more sure dealing with thy soul, it is not good to take any of
these apart--that is, it is not good to take the testimony of the
Spirit, as thou supposest thou hast, apart from the fruits thereof, so
as to conclude the testimony thou hast received to be a sufficient
ground without the other; not that it is not, if it be the testimony
of the Spirit, but because the devil doth also deceive souls by the
workings of his spirit in them, pretending that it is the Spirit
of God. And again; thou shouldst not satisfy thyself, though thou
do find some seekings in thee after that which is good, without
the testimony of the other--that is to say, of the Spirit--for it
is the testimony of two that is to be taken for the truth; therefore,
say I, as thou shouldst be much in praying for the Spirit to
testify assurance to thee, so also thou shouldst look to the end
of it when thou thinkest thou hast it; which is this, to show thee
that it is alone for Christ's sake that thy sins are forgiven thee,
and also thereby a constraining of thee to advance Him, both by
words and works, in holiness and righteousness all the days of thy
life. From hence thou mayst boldly conclude thy election--"Remembering
without ceasing your work of faith, and labour of love, and
patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and
our Father. Knowing, brethren," saith the Apostle, "beloved, your
election of God." But how? why by this, "For our Gospel came not
unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost,
and in much assurance. And ye became followers of us, and of the
Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of
the Holy Ghost: so that ye were ensamples to all that believe in
Macedonia and Achaia. And to wait for His Son from Heaven, whom
He raised from the dead, even Jesus, which" hath "delivered us from
the wrath to come" (1 Thess 3:4-6, 10).

Object. But alas, for my part, instead of finding in me anything that
is good, I find in me all manners of wickedness, hard-heartedness,
hypocricy, coldness of affection to Christ, very great unbelief,
together with everything that is base and of an ill savour. What
hope therefore can I have?

Answ. If thou wast not such an one, thou hadst no need of mercy.
If thou wast whole, thou hadst no need of the physician. Dost thou
therefore see thyself in such a sad condition as this? Thou hast the
more need to come to Christ, that thou mayst be not only cleansed
from these evils, but also that thou mayst be delivered from that
wrath they will bring upon thee, if thou dost not get rid of them,
to all eternity.

Quest. But how should I do? and what course should I take to be
delivered from this sad and troublesome condition?

Answ. Dost thou see in thee all manner of wickedness? The best way
that I can direct a soul in such a case is, to pitch a steadfast
eye on Him that is full, and to look so steadfastly upon Him by
faith, that thereby thou mayst even draw down of His fullness into
thy heart; for that is the right way, and the way that was typed
out, before Christ came in the flesh, in the time of Moses, when
the Lord said unto him, "Make thee a fiery serpent" of brass, which
was a type of Christ "and set it upon a pole; and it shall come
to pass" that when a serpent hath bitten any man, "when he looketh
upon it, shall live" (Num 21:8). Even so now in Gospel times, when
any soul is bitten with the fiery serpents--their sins--that then
the next way to be healed is, for the soul to look upon the Son of
Man, who, as the serpent was, was hanged on a pole, or tree, that
whosoever shall indeed look on Him by faith may be healed of all
their distempers whatever (John 3:14,15).

As now to instance in some things. 1. Is thy heart hard? Why, then,
behold how full of bowels and compassion is the heart of Christ
towards thee, which may be seen in His coming down from Heaven to
spill His heart-blood for thee. 2. Is thy heart slothful and idle?
Then see how active the Lord Jesus is for thee in that He did not
only die for thee, but also in that He hath been ever since His
ascension into Heaven making intercession for thee (Heb 7:25). 3.
Dost thou see and find in thee iniquity and unrighteousness? Then
look up to Heaven, and see there a righteous Person, even thy
righteous Jesus Christ, now presenting thee in His own perfection
before the throne of His Father's glory (1 Cor 1:30). 4. Dost
thou see that thou art very much void of sanctification? Then look
up, and thou shalt see that thy sanctification is in the presence
of God a complete sanctification, representing all the saints as
righteous, as sanctified ones in the presence of the great God of
Heaven. And so whatsoever thou wantest, be sure to strive to pitch
thy faith upon the Son of God, and behold Him steadfastly, and thou
shalt, by so doing, find a mighty change in thy soul. For when we
behold Him as in a glass, even the glory of the Lord, we are changed,
namely, by beholding, "from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit
of the Lord" (2 Cor 3:18). This is the true way to get both comfort
to thy soul, and also sanctification and right holiness into thy
soul.

Poor souls that are under the distemper of a guilty conscience,
and under the workings of much corruption, do not go the nearest
way to Heaven if they do not in the first place look upon themselves
as cursed sinners by Law; and yet at that time they are blessed,
for ever blessed saints by the merits of Jesus Christ. "O wretched
man that I am," saith Paul; and yet, O blessed man that I am, through
my Lord Jesus Christ; for that is the scope of the Scripture (Rom
7:24,25).

Object. But, alas, I am blind, and cannot see; what shall I do now?

Answ. Why, truly, thou must go to Him that can make the eyes that
are blind to see, even to our Lord Jesus, by prayer, saying, as the
poor blind man did, "Lord, that I might receive my sight"; and so
continue begging Him, till thou do receive sight, even a sight of
Jesus Christ, His death, blood, resurrection, ascension, intercession,
and that for thee, even for thee. And the rather, because, 1. He
hath invited thee to come and buy such eye-salve of Him that may
make thee see (Rev 3:18). 2. Because thou shalt never have any true
comfort till thou dost thus come to see and behold the Lamb of God
that hath taken away thy sins (John 1:29). 3. Because that thereby
thou wilt be able through grace, to step over and turn aside from the
several stumbling-blocks that Satan, together with his instruments,
hath laid in our way, which otherwise thou wilt not be able to shun,
but will certainly fall when others stand, and grope and stumble
when others go upright, to the great prejudice of thy poor soul.

Object. But, alas, I have nothing to carry with me; how then should
I go?

Answ. Hast thou no sins? If thou hast, carry them, and exchange
them for His righteousness; because He hath said, "Cast thy burden
upon the Lord, and He shall sustain thee" (Psa 54:22); and again,
because He hath said, though thou be heavy laden, yet if thou do
but come to Him, He will give thee rest (Matt 11:28).

Object. But, you will say, Satan telleth me that I am so cold in
prayers, so weak in believing, so great a sinner, that I do go so
slothfully on in the way of God, that I am so apt to slip at every
temptation, and to be entangled therewith, together with other things,
so that I shall never be able to attain those blessed things that
are held forth to sinners by Jesus Christ; and therefore my trouble
is much upon this account also, and many times I fear that will
come upon me which Satan suggesteth to me--that is, I shall miss
of eternal life.

Answ. 1. As to the latter part of the objection, that thou shalt
never attain to everlasting life, that is obtained for thee already,
without thy doing, either thy praying, striving, or wrestling against
sin. If we speak properly, it is Christ that hath in His own body
abolished death on the Cross, and brought light, life, and glory
to us through this His thus doing. But this is the thing that thou
aimest at, that thou shalt never have a share in this life already
obtained for so many as do come by faith to Jesus Christ; and all
because thou art so slothful, so cold, so weak, so great a sinner,
so subject to slip and commit infirmities. 2. I answer, Didst thou
never learn for to outshoot the devil in his own bow, and to cut
off his head with his own sword, as David served Goliath, who was
a type of him.

Quest. O how should a poor soul do this? This is rare, indeed.

Answ. Why, truly thus--Doth Satan tell thee thou prayest but
faintly, and with very cold devotion? Answer him thus, and say, I
am glad you told me, for this will make me trust the more to Christ's
prayers, and the less to my own; also I will endeavour henceforth
to groan, to sigh, and to be so fervent in my crying at the Throne
of Grace, that I will, if I can, make the heavens rattle again
with the mighty groans thereof. And whereas thou sayest that I am
so weak in believing, I am glad you mind me of it; I hope it will
henceforward stir me up to cry the more heartily to God for strong
faith, and make me the more restless till I have it. And seeing
thou tellest me that I run so softly, and that I shall go near to
miss of glory, this also shall be, through grace, to my advantage,
and cause me to press the more earnestly towards the mark for the
prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. And seeing thou
dost tell me that my sins are wondrous great, hereby thou bringest
the remembrance of the unsupportable vengeance of God into my mind,
if I die out of Jesus Christ, and also the necessity of the blood,
death, and merits of Christ to help me; I hope it will make me fly
the faster, and press the harder after an interest in Him; and the
rather, because, as thou tellest me, my state will be unspeakably
miserable without Him. And so all along, if he tell thee of thy
deadness, dullness, coldness, or unbelief, or the greatness of thy
sins, answer him, and say, I am glad you told me, I hope it will
be a means to make me run faster, seek earnestlier, and to be the
more restless after Jesus Christ. If thou didst but get this art
as to outrun him in his own shoes, as I may say, and to make his
own darts to pierce himself, then thou mightst also say, how doth
Satan's temptations, as well as all other things, work together
for my good, for my advantage (Rom 8:28).

Object. But I do find many weaknesses in every duty that I do perform,
as when I pray, when I read, when I hear, or any other duty, that
it maketh me out of conceit with myself, it maketh me think that
my duties are nothing worth.

Answ. I answer, it may be it is thy mercy that thou art sensible
of infirmities in thy best things thou doest; ay, a greater mercy
than thou art aware of.

Quest. Can it me a mercy for me to be troubled with my corruptions?
Can it be a privilege for me to be annoyed with my infirmities, and
to have my best duties infected with it? How can it possibly be?

Answ. Verily, thy sins appearing in thy best duties, do work for
thy advantage these ways--1. In that thou findest ground enough
thereby to make thee humble; and when thou hast done all, yet to
count thyself but an unprofitable servant. And, 2. Thou by this
means art taken off from leaning on anything below a naked Jesus
for eternal life. It is like, if thou wast not sensible of many
by-thoughts and wickednesses in thy best performances, thou wouldst
go near to be some proud, abominable hypocrite, or a silly, proud
dissembling wretch at the best, such an one as would send thy soul
to the devil in a bundle of thy own righteousness. But now, thou,
through grace, seest that in all and everything thou doest there is
sin enough in it to condemn thee. This, in the first place, makes
thee have a care of trusting in thy own doings; and, secondly,
showeth thee that there is nothing in thyself which will do thee
any good by working in thee, as to the meritorious cause of thy
salvation. No; but thou must have a share in the birth of Jesus,
in the death of Jesus, in the blood, resurrection, ascension, and
intercession of a crucified Jesus. And how sayest thou? Doth not
thy finding of this in thee cause thee to fly from a depending on
thy own doings? And doth it not also make thee more earnestly to
groan after the Lord Jesus? Yea, and let me tell thee also, it will
be a cause to make thee admire the freeness and tender heartedness
of Christ to thee, when He shall lift up the light of His countenance
upon thee, because He hath regarded such an one as thou, sinful
thou; and therefore, in this sense, it will be mercy to the saints
that they do find the relics of sin still struggling in their
hearts. But this is not simply the nature of sin, but the mercy and
wisdom of God, who causeth all things to work together for the good
of those that love and fear God (Rom 8). And, therefore, whatever
thou findest in thy soul, though it be sin of never so black
a soul-scarring nature, let it move thee to run the faster to the
Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt not be ashamed--that is, of thy
running to Him.

But when thou dost apprehend that thou art defiled, and also thy
best duties annoyed with many weaknesses, let that Scripture come
into thy thoughts which saith, "Of Him are ye in Christ Jesus, who
of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification,
and redemption"; and if thou shalt understand that, what thou canst
not find in thyself thou shalt find in Christ. Art thou a fool in
thyself? then Christ is made of God thy wisdom. Art thou unrighteous
in thyself? Christ is made of God thy righteousness. Dost thou
find that there is but very little sanctifying grace in thy soul?
still here is Christ made thy sanctification; and all this in His
own Person without thee, without thy wisdom, without thy righteousness,
without thy sanctification, without in His own Person in thy
Father's presence, appearing there perfect wisdom, righteousness,
and sanctification in His own Person; I say, as a public Person for
thee; so that thou mayest believe, and say to thy soul, My soul,
though dost find innumerable infirmities in thyself, and in thy
actions, yet look upon thy Jesus, the Man Jesus; He is wisdom, and
that for thee, to govern thee, to take care for thee, and to order
all things for the best for thee. He is also thy righteousness now
at God's right hand, always shining before the eyes of His glory;
so that there it is unmoveable, though thou art in never such a sad
condition, yet thy righteousness, which is the Son of God, God-man,
shines as bright as ever, and is as much accepted of God as ever.
O this sometimes hath been life to me; and so, whatever thou, O my
soul, findest wanting in thyself, through faith thou shalt see all
laid up for thee in Jesus Christ, whether it be wisdom, righteousness,
sanctification, or redemption. Nay, not only so, but, as I said
before, He is all these in His own Person without thee in the
presence of His Father for thee.

Object. But now, if any should say in their hearts, O, but I am one
of the old-covenant men, I doubt--that is, I doubt I am not within
this glorious Covenant of Grace. And how if I should not?

Answ. Well, thou fearest that thou are one of the old covenant, a
son of the bond-woman. [1.] In the first place, know that thou wast
one of them by nature, for all by nature are under that covenant;
but set the case that thou art to this day under that, yet let me
tell thee, in the first place, there are hopes for thee; for there
is a gap open, a way made for souls to come from under the Covenant
of Works, by Christ, "for He hath broken down the middle wall of
partition between us" and you (Eph 2:14). And therefore, if thou
wouldst be saved, thou mayest come to Christ; if thou wantest a
righteousness, as I said before, there is one in Christ; if thou
wouldst be washed, thou mayest come to Christ; and if thou wouldst
be justified, there is justification enough in the Lord Jesus Christ.
That is the first. [2.] And thou canst not be so willing to come
to Christ as He is willing thou shouldst come to Him. Witness His
coming down from Heaven, His humiliation, His spilling of His blood
from both His cheeks, by sweat under the burden of sin (Luke 22:44)
and His shedding of it by the spear when He hanged on the Cross.
It appears also by His promises, by His invitations, by His sending
forth His messengers to preach the same to poor sinners, and
threateneth damnation upon this very account, namely, the neglect
of Him; and declares that all the thousands and ten thousands of
sins in the world should not be able to damn those that believed
in Him; that He would pardon all, forgive and pass by all, if they
would but come unto Him; moreover, promiseth to cast out none,
no, not the poorest, vilest, contemptiblest creature in the whole
world. "Come unto Me all," every one, though you be never so many,
so vile, though your load be never so heavy and intolerable, though
you deserve no help, not the least help, no mercy, not the least
compassion, yet "cast your burden upon Me, and you shall find rest
for your souls." Come unto Me and I will heal you, love you, teach
you, and tell you the way to the Kingdom of Heaven. Come unto Me,
and I will succour you, help you, and keep you from all devils and
their temptations, from the Law and its curses, and from being for
ever overcome with any evil whatever. Come unto Me for what you
need, and tell Me what you would have, or what you would have Me
do for you, and all My strength, love, wisdom, and interest that I
have with My Father shall be laid out for you. Come unto Me, your
sweet Jesus, your loving and tender-hearted Jesus, your everlasting
and sin-pardoning Jesus. Come unto Me, and I will wash you, and put
My righteousness upon you, pray to the Father for you, and send My
Spirit into you, that you might be saved. Therefore,

Consider, besides this, what a privilege thou shalt have at the
Day of Judgment above thousands, if thou do in deed and in truth
close in with this Jesus and accept of Him; for thou shalt not only
have a privilege in this life, but in the life everlasting, even
at the time of Christ's second coming from Heaven; for then, when
there shall be the whole world gathered together, and all the good
angels, bad angels, saints, and reprobates, when all thy friends
and kindred, with thy neighbours on the right hand and on the left
shall be with thee, beholding of the wonderful glory and majesty
of the Son of God; then shall the Son of Glory, even Jesus, in the
very view and sight of them all, smile and look kindly upon thee;
when a smile or a kind look from Christ shall be worth more than
ten thousand worlds, then thou shalt have it. You know it is counted
an honour for a poor man to be favourably looked upon by a judge,
or a king, in the sight of lords, earls, dukes, and princes; why,
thus it will be with thee in the sight of all the princely saints,
angels, and devils, in the sight of all the great nobles in the
world; then, even thou that closest in with Christ, be thou rich or
poor, be thou bond or free, wise or foolish, if thou close in with
Him, He will say unto thee, "Well done, good and faithful servant,"
even in the midst of the whole world; they that love thee shall
see it, and they that hate thee shall all to their shame behold
it; for if thou fear Him here in secret, He will make it manifest
even at that day upon the house-tops.

Secondly, Not only thus, but thou shalt also be lovingly received
and tenderly embraced of Him at that day, when Christ hath thousands
of gallant saints, as old Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, David, Isaiah,
Jeremiah, together with all the Prophets, and Apostles, and martyrs,
attending on Him; together with many thousands of glittering angels
ministering before Him; besides, when the ungodly shall appear
there with their pale faces, with their guilty consciences, and
trembling souls, that would then give thousands and ten thousands
of worlds, if they had so many, if they could enjoy but one loving
look from Christ. I say, then, then shalt thou have the hand of
Christ, reached to thee kindly to receive thee, saying, Come, thou
blessed, step up hither; thou was willing to leave all for Me, and
now will I give all to thee; here is a throne, a crown, a kingdom,
take them; thou wast not ashamed of Me when thou wast in the world
among my enemies, and now will not I be ashamed of thee before
thine enemies, but will, in the view of all these devils and damned
reprobates promote thee to honour and dignity. "Come, ye blessed of
My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world." Thou shalt see that those who have served Me in truth
shall lose nothing by the means. No; but ye shall be as pillars
in My temple, and inheritors of My glory, and shall have place to
walk in among My saints and angels (Zech 3:7). O! who would not be
in this condition? who would not be in this glory? It will be such
a soul-ravishing glory, that I am ready to think the whole reprobate
world will be ready to run mad, to think that they should miss of
it (Deu 28:34). Then will the vilest drunkard, swearer, liar, and
unclean person willingly cry, "Lord, Lord, open to us," yet be denied
of entrance; and thou in the meantime embraced, entertained, made
welcome, have a fair mitre set upon thy head, and clothed with immortal
glory (Zech 3:5). O, therefore, let all this move thee, and be of
weight upon thy soul to close in with Jesus, this tender-hearted
Jesus. And if yet, for all what I have said, thy sins do still
stick with thee, and thou findest thy hellish heart loath to let
them go, think with thyself in this manner--Shall I have my sins
and lose my soul? Will they do me any good when Christ comes? Would
not Heaven be better to me than my sins? and the company of God,
Christ, saints, and angels, be better than the company of Cain,
Judas, Balaam, with the devils in the furnace of fire? Canst thou
now that readest or hearest these lines turn thy back, and go on
in your sins? Canst thou set so light of Heaven, of God, of Christ,
and the salvation of thy poor, yet precious soul? Canst thou hear of
Christ, His bloody sweat and death, and not be taken with it, and
not be grieved for it, and also converted by it? If so, I might lay
thee down several considerations to stir thee up to mend thy pace
towards Heaven; but I shall not; there is enough written already
to leave thy soul without excuse and to bring thee down with a
vengeance into Hell-fire, devouring fire, the Lake of Fire, eternal
everlasting fire; O to make thee swim and roll up and down in the
flames of the furnace of fire!

FOOTNOTES:

1 These words are quoted from the Genevan or Breeches Bible (Mark
2:17).--Ed.

2 This quotation is from the Genevan translation (Eph 2:3).--Ed.

3 It is observable that the reason given for the punishment of the
murderer with death (Gen 9:6) is taken from the affront he offers
to God, not from the injury he does to man.--Scott.

4 The reader need scarcely be reminded, that by "public person" is
meant the Saviour, in whom all His people have an equal right. "For
He made Him, who knew no sin, to be sin for us" (2 Cor 5:21).--ED.

5 Bunyan's first sight of the spiritual, inward, and extensive
requirements of the law filled his heart with despair; see "Grace
Abounding," No. 28. It was like the alarming sound of the drum
Diabolus mentioned in the "Holy War," which caused Mansoul to shake
with terror and dismay. Thus the soul is stripped of self-righteousness,
and flies to Christ, whose blood alone cleanseth from all sin.--ED.

6 "Crank," brisk, jolly, lusty, spiritful, buxom.--ED.

7 From the Puritan or Genevan version.--ED.

8 These nine particulars are very methodically arranged, and are
all deeply interesting. Very few of those who read the scriptural
law of sacrifices see how clearly they pointed as types to Christ
the great Antitype.--ED.

9 It is a mark of prying and dangerous, if not wicked curiosity
to inquire whether God could have found any other way of salvation
than by the atoning death of our blessed Lord. Instead of such vain
researches, how much more consistent would it be to call upon our
souls, and all that is within us, to bless His name, who hath thus
provided abundant pardon, full remission, even to the chief of
sinners.--ED.

10 The duty of the priests, under the law, led them to be familiar
with the most loathsome and catching diseases; and doubtless they
took every precaution to avoid contagion. Poor sin-sick soul, do you
consider your state more loathsome and dangerous than the leprosy?
Fly to Christ, our High Priest and Physician; He will visit you
in the lowest abyss of misery, without fear of contagion, and with
full powers to heal and save.--ED.

11 The word "hell" in the two verses means the unseen place of the
dead, the invisible world, or the grave.--ED.

12 How awful and vast must have been the sufferings of the Saviour,
when He paid the redemption price for the countless myriads of His
saints; redeemed "out of every kindred, and tongue, and people,
and nation." How magnificent His glory when "ten thousand times
ten thousands, and thousands of thousands, shall sing with a loud
voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches,
and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing, for
ever and ever." Such were the ecstatic vision which Bunyan enjoyed,
drawn from the unerring pages of eternal truth.--ED.

13 This singular use of the law term "premunire," meaning that the
soul has trusted in a foreign jurisdiction, incurred God's anger,
and forfeited its liberty and all its goods.--ED.

14 These are solemn truths, in homely, forcible language. Let the
soul be convinced that by the obedience of Christ it is released
from the law, it has no fear of Satan or of future punishment;
Christ is all and in all.--ED.

15 "Indenture"; a written agreement, binding one party to reward
the other for specified services. As man is by nature bound to
love God with all his soul, he cannot be entitled to any reward
for anything beyond his duty. When he feels that he has failed in
his obedience, he must fly to Christ for that mercy which he can
never obtain by indenture of service or merit and reward.--ED.

16 Same as 15--Ed.

17 Same as 15--Ed.

18 For a deeply affecting account of the author's experience about
this period read Grace Abounding, No. 259-261.--ED.

19 "Scrabble"; to go on the hands and feet or knees. See a remarkable
illustration of the word "scrabble" in Grace Abounding, No. 335.--ED.

20 As Bunyan was a Baptist, this is full proof that his friends did
not ascribe regeneration to water baptism. It is an awful delusion
to suppose that immersion in or sprinkling with water can effect
or promote the new birth or spiritual regeneration of the soul.--ED.

21 This is one of the very thrilling circumstances described by
Bunyan in his Grace Abounding, No. 24:--Sunday sports were then
allowed by the State, and after hearing a sermon on the evil of
Sabbath-breaking, he went as usual to his sport. On that day it was
a game at cat, and as he was about to strike, "a voice did suddenly
dart from Heaven into my soul, which said, Wilt thou leave thy sins
and go to Heaven, or have thy sins and go to Hell?"--ED.

22 The word Man was essential in Bunyan's days, as an antidote to
the jargon of the Ranters, who affirmed that Jesus only existed in
the heart of the believer.--ED.

23 Same As 20--Ed.

24 Same as 22--Ed.

***

ISRAEL'S HOPE ENCOURAGED;

OR,

WHAT HOPE IS, AND HOW DISTINGUISHED FROM FAITH:

WITH ENCOURAGEMENTS FOR A HOPING PEOPLE.


ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.


   'Auspicious hope! in thy sweet garden grow
    Wreaths for each toil, a charm for every woe.'


Christian hope is a firm expectation of all promised good, but
especially of eternal salvation and happiness in heaven, where we
shall be like the Son of God. This hope is founded on the grace,
blood, righteousness, and intercession of Christ--the earnest
of the Holy Spirit in our hearts, and the unchangeable truths and
enlightening power of God.[1] 'Every man that hath this hope in
him purifieth himself even as God is pure' (1 John 3:3). Blessed
hope! (Titus 2:13). Well might the apostle pray for the believing
Romans, 'That ye may abound in hope through the power of the Holy
Ghost' (15:13). 'Which is Christ in you the hope of glory' (Col
1:27). This is the sacred, the solemn, the all-important subject
which Bunyan in his ripe age makes the theme of his meditations
and of his deeply impressive exhortations.

When drawing near the end of his pilgrimage--while in the fullest
fruition of his mental powers--he gives the result of his long and
hallowed experience to comfort and cherish his fellow pilgrims in
their dangerous heaven-ward journey. One of his last labours was
to prepare this treatise for the press, from which it issued three
years after his decease, under the care of his pious friend Charles
Doe.

Here, as drawn from the holy oracles of God, we contemplate Hope,
the helmet of salvation, without which our mental powers are exposed
to be led captive into despair at the will of Satan. Our venerable
author pictures most vividly the Christian's weakness and the power
of his enemies; 'Should you see a man that could not go from door
to door but he must be clad in a coat of mail, a helmet of brass
upon his head, and for his lifeguard a thousand men, would you not
say, surely this man has store of enemies at hand?' This is the
case, enemies lie in wait for Israel in every hole, he can neither
eat, drink, wake, sleep, work, sit still, talk, be silent--worship
his God in public or private, but he is in danger. Poor, lame, infirm,
helpless man, cannot live without tender--great--rich--manifold--abounding
mercies. 'No faith, no hope,' 'to hope without faith is to see
without eyes, or expect without reason.' Faith is the anchor which
enters within the vail; Christ in us the hope of glory is the
mighty cable which keeps us fast to that anchor. 'Faith lays hold
of that end of the promise that is nearest to us, to wit, in the
Bible--Hope lays hold of that end that is fastened to the mercy-seat.'
Thus the soul is kept by the mighty power of God. They who have
no hope, enter Doubting Castle of their own free will--they place
themselves under the tyranny of Giant Despair--that he may put out
their eyes, and send them to stumble among the tombs, and leave
their bones in his castle-yard, a trophy to his victories, and a
terror to any poor pilgrim caught by him trespassing on Bye-path
Meadow.[2] Hope is as a guardian angel--it enables us to come boldly
to a throne of grace 'in a goodly sort.' The subject is full of
consolation. Are we profanely apt to judge of God harshly, as of
one that would gather where he had not strawn? Hope leads us to
form a holy and just conception of the God of love. 'Kind brings
forth its kind, know the tree by his fruit, and God BY HIS MERCY
IN CHRIST. What has God been doing for and to his church from the
beginning of the world, but extending to and exercising loving-kindness
and mercy for them? Therefore he laid a foundation for this in
mercy from everlasting.' 'There is no single flowers in God's gospel
garden, they are all double and treble; there is a wheel within a
wheel, a blessing within a blessing in all the mercies of God; they
are manifold, a man cannot receive one but he receives many, many
folded up one within another.' Bless the Lord, O my soul!!

Reader, my deep anxiety is that you should receive from this treatise
the benefits which its glorified author intended it to produce. It
is accurately printed from the first edition. My notes are intended
to explain obsolete words or customs or to commend the author's
sentiments. May the Divine blessing abundantly replenish our earthen
vessels with this heavenly hope.

GEO. OFFOR.

FOOTNOTES:

1. Cruden.

2. Pilgrim's Progress.

Israel's Hope Encouraged;

'Let Israel hope in the LORD: for with the LORD there is mercy,
and with him is plenteous redemption.'--Psalms 130:7

This Psalm is said to be one of 'the Psalms of Degrees,' which some
say, if I be not mistaken, the priests and Levites used to sing
when they went up the steps into the temple.[1] But to let that
pass, it is a psalm that gives us a relation of the penman's praying
frame, and of an exhortation to Israel to hope in God.

Verse 1. 'Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O Lord'; that
is, out of deep or great afflictions, and said, 'Lord, hear my voice,
let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.' The
latter words explain the former; as who should say, By voice I mean
the meaning and spirit of my prayer. There are words in prayer, and
spirit in prayer, and by the spirit that is in prayer, is discerned
whether the words be dead, lifeless, feigned, or warm, fervent,
earnest; and God who searcheth the heart, knoweth the meaning of
the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according
to the will of God (Rom 8:27). Verse 3. 'If thou, Lord, shouldest
mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?' Here he confesseth,
that all men by the law must fall before God for ever; for that
they have broken it, but cannot make amends for the transgression
thereof. But, he quickly bethinking himself of the mercy of God
in Christ, he saith, verse 4, 'But there is forgiveness with thee
that thou mayest be feared.' Then he returns, saying, verse 5,
'I wait for the Lord,' that is, in all his appointments; yea, he
doubleth it, saying, 'My soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope.'
By which repetition he insinuates, that many are content to give
their bodily presence to God in his appointments, while their hearts
were roving to the ends of the earth; but for his part he did not
so. Verse 6. 'My soul waiteth for the Lord, more than they that
watch for the morning, I say, more than they that watch for the
morning.' As who should say, even as it is with those that are tired
with the night, either by reason of dark or wearisome journies,
or because of tedious sickness, to whom the night is most doleful
and uncomfortable, waiting for spring of day; so wait I for the
Lord, that his presence might be with my soul. So and more too
I say, 'More than they that wait for the morning.' Then he comes
to the words which I have chosen for my text, saying, 'Let Israel
hope in the Lord; for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him
is plenteous redemption.'

In which words we have, FIRST, AN EXHORTATION; SECOND, A REASON OF
THAT EXHORTATION; and THIRD, AN AMPLIFICATION OF THAT REASON. 'Let
Israel hope in the Lord'; there is the exhortation; 'For with the
Lord there is mercy'; there is the reason of it; 'And with him is
plenteous redemption'; there is the amplification of that reason.

[FIRST. AN EXHORTATION.]

In the exhortation there are three things to be inquired into.
FIRST, The matter contained in it; SECOND, The manner by which it
is expressed; THIRD, The inferences that do naturally flow therefrom.

[FIRST. The matter contained in the exhortation.]

We will speak first to the matter contained in the text, and that
presenteth itself unto us under three heads. First, A duty. Second,
A direction for the well management of that duty. Third, The persons
that are so to manage it.

First, Then, to speak to the duty, and that is HOPE; 'Let Israel
HOPE.' By which word there is something pre-admitted, and something
of great concern insinuated.

That which is pre-admitted is faith; for when we speak properly of
hope, and put others distinctly to the duty of hoping, we conclude
that such have faith already; for no faith, no hope. To hope without
faith, is to see without eyes, or to expect without a ground: for
'Faith is the substance of things hoped for,' as well with respect
to the grace, as to the doctrine of faith (Heb 11:1). Doth such
a one believe? No. Doth he hope? Yes. If the first is true, the
second is a lie; he that never believed, did never hope in the
Lord. Wherefore, when he saith, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord,' he
pre-supposeth faith, and signifieth that he speaketh to believers.

That which is of great concern insinuated, is, that hope has in it
an excellent quality to support Israel in all its troubles. Faith
has its excellency in this, hope in that, and love in another
thing. Faith will do that which hope cannot do. Hope can do that
which faith doth not do, and love can do things distinct from
both their doings. Faith goes in the van, hope in the body, and
love brings up the rear: and thus 'now abideth faith, hope,' and
'charity' (1 Cor 13:13). Faith is the mother-grace, for hope is
born of her, but charity floweth from them both.

But a little, now we are upon faith and hope distinctly, to let
you see a little. 1. Faith comes by hearing (Rom 10:17), hope by
experience (Rom 5:3,4). 2. Faith comes by hearing the Word of God,
hope by the credit that faith hath given to it (Rom 4:18). 3. Faith
believeth the truth of the Word, hope waits for the fulfilling of
it. 4. Faith lays hold of that end of the promise that is next to
us, to wit, as it is in the Bible; hope lays hold of that end of
the promise that is fastened to the mercy-seat; for the promise is
like a mighty cable, that is fastened by one end to a ship, and by
the other to the anchor: the soul is the ship where faith is, and
to which the hither[2] end of this cable is fastened; but hope is the
anchor that is at the other end of this cable, and which entereth
into that within the vail. Thus faith and hope getting hold of
both ends of the promise, they carry it safely all away. 5. Faith
looketh to Christ, as dead, buried, and ascended; and hope to his
second coming (1 Cor 15:1-4). Faith looks to him for justification,
hope for glory (Rom 4:1-8). 6. Faith fights for doctrine, hope for
a reward (Acts 26:6,7). Faith for what is in the bible, hope for
what is in heaven (Col 1:3-5). 7. Faith purifies the heart from bad
principles (1 John 5:4,5). Hope from bad manners (2 Peter 3:11,14;
Eph 5:8; 1 John 3:3). 8. Faith sets hope on work, hope sets patience
on work (Acts 28:20, 9:9). Faith says to hope, look for what is
promised; hope says to faith, So I do, and will wait for it too. 9.
Faith looks through the word to God in Christ; hope looks through
faith beyond the world to glory (Gal 5:5).

Thus faith saves, and thus hope saves. Faith saves by laying hold
of God by Christ (1 Peter 1:5). Hope saves by prevailing with the
soul to suffer all troubles, afflictions, and adversities that it
meets with betwixt this and the world to come, for the sake thereof
(Rom 8:24). Take the matter in this plain similitude. There was a
king that adopted such a one to be his child, and clothed him with
the attire of the children of the king, and promised him, that if
he would fight his father's battles, and walk in his father's ways,
he should at last share in his father's kingdoms. He has received
the adoption, and the king's robe, but not yet his part in the
kingdom; but now, hope of a share in that will make him fight the
king's battles, and also tread the king's paths. Yea, and though he
should meet with many things that have a tendency to deter him from
so doing, yet thoughts of the interest promised in the kingdom,
and hopes to enjoy it, will make him out his way through those
difficulties, and so save him from the ruin that those destructions
would bring upon him, and will, in conclusion, usher him into a
personal possession and enjoyment of that inheritance. Hope has a
thick skin, and will endure many a blow; it will put on patience
as a vestment, it will wade through a sea of blood, it will endure
all things, if it be of the right kind, for the joy that is set
before it. Hence patience is called, 'Patience of hope,' because
it is hope that makes the soul exercise patience and long-suffering
under the cross, until the time comes to enjoy the crown (1 Thess
1:3). The Psalmist, therefore, by this exhortation, persuadeth
them that have believed the truth, to wait for the accomplishment
of it, as by his own example he did himself--'I wait for the Lord,'
'my soul waiteth,' 'and in his word do I hope.' It is for want of
hope that so many brisk professors that have so boasted and made
brags of their faith, have not been able to endure the drum[3] in
the day of alarm and affliction. Their hope in Christ has been such
as has extended itself no further than to this life, and therefore
they are of all men the most miserable.

The Psalmist therefore, by exhorting us unto this duty, doth put
us in mind of four things. I. That the best things are yet behind,
and in reversion for the saints. II. That those that have believed,
will yet meet with difficulties before they come at them. III. The
grace of hope well exercised, is the only way to overcome these
difficulties. IV. They therefore that have hope, and do exercise
it as they should, shall assuredly at last enjoy that hope that is
laid up for them in heaven.

I. For the first of these, that the best things are yet behind,
and in reversion for believers; this is manifest by the natural
exercise of this grace. For 'hope that is seen, is not hope; for
what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for? But if we hope for that
we see not, then do we with patience wait for it' (Rom 8:24,25).
Hope lives not by sight, as faith doth; but hope trusteth faith,
as faith trusts the Word, and so bears up the soul in a patient
expectation at last to enjoy what God has promised. But I say, the
very natural work of this grace proveth, that the believer's best
things are behind in reversion.

You may ask me, what those things are? and I may tell you, first,
in general, they are heavenly things, they are eternal things, they
are the things that are where Christ sitteth on the right hand of
God (John 3:12; 2 Cor 4:18; Col 3:1). Do you know them now? They
are things that 'eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor that have
entered into the heart of man to conceive of' (Isa 64:4; 1 Cor
2:9). Do you know them now? They are things that are referred to
the next world, for the saints when they come into the next world;
talked of they may be now, the real being of them may be believed
now, and by hope we may, and it will be our wisdom to wait for
them now; but to know what they are in the nature of them, or in
the enjoyment of them, otherwise than by faith, he is deceived that
saith it. They are things too big as yet to enter into our hearts,
and things too big, if they were there to come out, or to be
expressed by our mouths.

There is heaven itself, the imperial heaven; does any body know what
that is? There is the mount Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem, and the
innumerable company of angels; doth any body know what all they
are? There is immortality and eternal life: and who knows what they
are? There are rewards for services, and labour of love showed
to God's name here; and who knows what they will be? There are
mansion-houses, beds of glory, and places to walk in among the
angels; and who knows what they are? There will be badges of honour,
harps to make merry with, and heavenly songs of triumph; doth any
here know what they are? There will be then a knowing, an enjoying
and a solacing of ourselves with prophets, apostles, and martyrs,
and all saints; but in what glorious manner we all are ignorant
of. There we shall see and know, and be with for ever, all our
relations, as wife, husband, child, father, mother, brother, or
sister that have died in the faith; but how gloriously they will
look when we shall see them, and how gloriously we shall love when
we are with them, it is not for us in this world to know (1 Thess
4:16,17). There are thoughts, and words, and ways for us, which
we never dreamed on in this world. The law was but the shadow, the
gospel the image; but what will be the substance that comes to us
next, or that rather we shall go unto, who can understand? (Heb
10:1). If we never saw God nor Christ as glorified, nor the Spirit
of the Lord, nor the bottom of the Bible, nor yet so much as one
of the days of eternity,, and yet all these things we shall see
and have them, how can it be that the things laid up for us, that
should be the object of our hope, should by us be understood in
this world? Yet there are intimations given us of the goodness
and greatness of them.[4]

1. Of their goodness, and that, (1.) In that the Holy Ghost scorns
that things that are here should once be compared with them; hence
all things here are called vanities, nothings, less than nothings
(Isa 40:15-17). Now, if the things, all the things that are here,
are so contemptuously considered, when compared with the things that
are to be hereafter, and yet these things so great in the carnal
man's esteem, as that he is willing to venture life and soul, and
all to have them, what are the things that God has prepared for
them that wait, that is, that hope for him? (2.) Their goodness
also appears in this, that whoever has had that understanding of
them, as is revealed in the Word, whether king or beggar, wise mean
or fool, he has willingly cast this world behind him in contempt
and scorn, for the hope of that (Psa 73:25; Heb 11:24-26, 37-40).
(3.) The goodness of them has even testimony in the very consciences
of them that hate them. Take the vilest man in the country, the man
who is so wedded to his lusts, that he will rather run the hazard
of a thousand hells than leave them; and ask this man his judgment
of the things of the next world, and he will shake his head, and
say, They are good, they are best of all. (4.) But the saints have
the best apprehension of their goodness, for that the Lord doth
sometimes drop some of the juice of them out of the Word, into
their hungry souls.

2. But as they are good, so they are great: 'O how great is thy
goodness which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, which
thou hast wrought for them that trust,' that hope, 'in thee before
the sons of men!' (Psa 31:19). (1.) Their greatness appears, in that
they go beyond the Word; yea, beyond the word of the Holy Ghost;
it doth not yet appear to us by the Word of God to the full, the
greatness of what is prepared for God's people. 'Beloved, now are
we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be'
(1 John 3:2). It doth not appear in the Word; there is a greatness
in the things that we are to hope for, that could never be expressed:
they are beyond word, beyond thought, beyond conceiving of! Paul,
when he was come down again from out of paradise, into which he
was caught up, could not speak a word about the words he heard, and
the things that there he saw. They were things and words which he
saw and heard, 'which it is not possible[5] for a man to utter.'
(2.) Their greatness is intimated by the word Eternal; he that
knows the bottom of that word, shall know what things they are.
'The things which are not seen are eternal' (2 Cor 4:18). They are
'incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away,' reserved
in heaven for us (1 Peter 1:4). (3.) Their greatness is showed in
that one right thought of them will fill the heart so full, that
both it and the eyes will run over together; yea, so full, that the
creature shall not be able to stand up under the weight of glory
that by it is laid upon the soul. Alas! all the things in this
world will not fill one heart; and yet one thought that is right,
of the things that God has prepared, and laid up in heaven for us,
will, yea, and over fill it too. (4.) The greatness of the things
of the next world appears, in that when one of the least of them
are showed to us, we are not able, without support from thence,
to abide the sight thereof. I count that the angels are of those
things that are least in that world; and yet the sight of one of
them, when the sight of them was in use, what work would it make
in the hearts and minds of mortal men, the scripture plainly enough
declares (John 13:22).[6] (5.) Their greatness is intimated, in that
we must be as it were new made again, before we can be capable of
enjoying them, as we must enjoy them with comfort (Luke 20:36).
And herein will be a great part of our happiness, that we shall not
only see them, but be made like unto them, like unto their King.
For 'when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see
him as he is' (1 John 3:2). We shall see him, and therefore must be
like him, for else the sight of him would overcome us and destroy
us; but because we are to see him with comfort and everlasting
joy, therefore we must be like him in body and mind (Rev 1:17; Phil
3:20,21).

II. But to come to the second thing, namely, That those that have
believed, there are such things as these, will meet with difficulties
before they come at them. This is so grand a truth, that nothing
can be said against it. Many are the afflictions of the righteous;
and we must through many tribulations enter into the kingdom of
heaven (Acts 14:22). The cause from whence these afflictions arise
is known to be,

1. From ourselves; for sin having got such hold in our flesh, makes
that opposition against our soul and the welfare of that, that puts
us continually to trouble. Fleshly lusts work against the soul,
and so do worldly lusts too (1 Peter 2:11); yea, they quench our
graces, and make them that would live, 'ready to die' (Rev 3:2).
Yea, by reason of these, such darkness, such guilt, such fear, such
mistrust, ariseth in us, that it is common for us, if we live any
while, to make a thousand conclusions, twice told, that we shall
never arrive with comfort at the gates of the kingdom of heaven.
The natural tendency of every struggle of the least lust against
grace is, if we judge according to carnal reason, to make us question
the truth of a work of grace in us, and our right to the world to
come. This it was that made Paul cry out, 'O wretched man that
I am! who shall deliver me!' (Rom 7:24). Only he had more wisdom
than to follow the natural conclusions that carnal reason was apt
to make thereupon, and so hoisted up his soul to hope.

2. Sin, by its working in us, doth not only bring darkness, guilt,
fear, mistrust, and the like; but it doth oft-times as it were
hamstring us, and disable us from going to God by faith and prayer
for pardon. It makes the heart hard, senseless, careless, lifeless,
spiritless as to feeling, in all Christian duty; and this is a
grievous thing to a gracious soul. The other things will create a
doubt, and drive it up to the head into the soul; but these will
go on the other side and clench it.[7] Now all these things make
hoping difficult.

3. For by these things the judgment is not only clouded, and the
understanding greatly darkened, but all the powers of the soul made
to fight against itself, conceiving, imagining, apprehending, and
concluding things that have a direct tendency to extirpate and
extinguish, if possible, the graces of God that are planted in the
soul; yea, to the making of it cry out, 'I am cut off from before
thine eyes!' (Psa 31:22).

4. Add to these, the hidings of the face of God from the soul; a
thing to it more bitter than death; yet nothing more common among
them that hope in the Lord. He 'hideth his face from the house of
Jacob!' (Isa 8:17). Nor is this done only in fatherly displeasure,
but by this means some graces are kept alive; faith is kept alive
by the word, patience by hope, and hope by faith; but oft-times a
spirit of prayer, by the rod, chastisement, and the hiding of God's
face (Hosea 5:14,15; Isa 26:16; Cant 5:6). But I say, this hiding
of this sweet face is bitter to the soul, and oft-times puts both
faith and hope to a sad and most fearful plunge. For at such a day,
it is with the soul as with the ship at sea, that is benighted and
without light; to wit, like a man bewildered upon the land; only
the text saith, for the help and succour of such, 'Who is among
you that feareth the Lord, that obeyeth the voice of his servant,
that walketh in darkness and hath no light? Let him trust in the
name of the Lord, and stay upon his God' (Isa 50:10). Yet as it
is with children, so it is with saints; we are a great deal more
subject to fears in the night than in the day. That, therefore,
that tendeth to the help of some graces, if there be not great care
taken, will prove an hindrance to others.

5. Nor is the ruler of the darkness of this world wanting to apply
himself and his engines, so as, if possible, to make use of all
these things for the overthrowing of faith, and for the removing
of our hope from the Lord, as a tree is removed from rooting in the
ground (Job 19:10). Behold! he can expound all things, so as that
they shall fall directly in the way of our believing. As thus, we
have sin, therefore we have no grace; sin struggleth in us, therefore
we fear not God; something in us sideth with sin, therefore we are
wholly unregenerate; sin is in our best performances, therefore
wherefore should I hope? Thus I say, he can afflict us in our
pilgrimage, and make hope difficult to us. Besides the hiding of
God's face, he can make not only a cause of sorrow, for that indeed
it should, but a ground of despair, and as desperately concluding
he will never come again. How many good souls has he driven to
these conclusions, who afterwards have been made to unsay all again?

6. And though spiritual desertions, darkness of soul, and guilt of
sin, are the burdens most intolerable, yet they are not all; for
there is to be added to all these, that common evil of persecution,
another device invented to make void our hope. In this, I say, we
are sure to be concerned; that is, if we be godly. For though the
apostle doth not say, 'All that will live in Christ,' that is,
in the common profession of him, shall suffer persecution; yet he
saith, 'All that will live godly in him shall' (2 Tim 3:12). Now
this in itself is a terror to flesh and blood, and hath a direct
tendency in it to make hope difficult (1 Peter 3:6,14). Hence men
of a persecuting spirit, because of their greatness, and of their
teeth (the laws), are said to be a terror, and to carry amazement
in their doings; and God's people are apt to be afraid of them
though they should die, and to forget God their Maker; and this
makes hoping hard work (Isa 51:12,13).[8]

7. For besides that grimness that appears in the face of
persecutors, Satan can tell how to lessen, and make to dwindle in
our apprehensions, those truths unto which our hearts have joined
themselves afore, and to which Christ our Lord has commanded us to
stand. So that they shall now appear but little, small, inconsiderable
things; things not worth engaging for; things not worth running
those hazards for, that in the hour of trial may lie staring us in
the face. Moreover, we shall not want false friends in every hole,
such as will continually be boring our ears with that saying,
Master, do good to thyself. At such times also, 'stars' do use to
'fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken';
and so every thing tends to weaken, or at least to lay stumbling-blocks
in their way, who are commanded to hope in the Lord (Matt 24).

8. Again, as Satan can make use of his subtilty, thus to afflict
and weaken the hands and hearts of those that hope in God, so he
can add to these the dismalness of a suffering state. He can make
the loss of goods, in our imagination, ten times bigger than it
is in itself; he can make an informer a frightful creature, and a
jail look like hell itself; he can make banishment and death utterly
intolerable, and things that must be shunned with the hazard of
our salvation. Thus he can greaten and lessen, lessen and greaten,
for the troubling of our hearts, for the hindering of our hope.[9]

9. Add to all these, that the things that we suffer for were never
seen by us, but are quite beyond our sight: things that indeed are
said to be great and good; but we have only the word and the Bible
for it. And be sure if he that laboureth night and day to devour
us, can help it, our faith shall be molested and perplexed at such
a time, that it may, if possible, be hard to do the commandment
that here the text enjoins us to the practice of; that is, to hope
in the Lord. And this brings me to the third particular.

III. That the grace of hope well exercised, is the only way to
overcome those difficulties.--Abraham had never laughed for joy,
had he not hoped when the angel brought him tidings of a son; yea,
had he not hoped against all things that could have been said to
discourage (Gen 17:17). Hence it is said, that 'against hope' he
'believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations,
according to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be' (Rom
4:18). There is hope against hope; hope grounded on faith, against
hope grounded on reason. Hope grounded on reason, would have made
Abraham expect that the promise should surely have been ineffectual,
because of the deadness of Abraham's body, and of the barrenness
of Sarah's womb. But he hoped against the difficulty, by hope that
sprang from faith, which confided in the promise and power of God,
and so overcame the difficulty, and indeed obtained the promise.
Hope, therefore, well exercised, is the only way to overcome. Hence
Peter bids those that are in a suffering condition, 'Be sober, and
hope to the end, for the grace that is to be brought unto you at
the revelation of Jesus Christ' (1 Peter 1:13). And therefore it
is, as you heard before, that we are said to be 'saved by hope'
(Rom 8:24).

Hope is excellent, 1. Against those discouragements that arise
up out of our bowels. 2. It is excellent to embolden a man in the
cause of God. 3. It is excellent at helping one over the difficulties
that men, by frights and terrors may lay in our way.

1. It is excellent to help us against those discouragements that
arise out of our own bowels (Rom 4). This is clear in the instance
last mentioned about Abraham, who had nothing but discouragements
arising from himself; but he had hope, and as well he exercised
it; wherefore, after a little patient enduring, he overcame the
difficulty, and obtained the promise (Heb 6:13-18). The reason is,
for that it is the nature of true hope to turn away its ear from
opposing difficulties, to the word and mouth of faith; and perceiving
that faith has got hold of the promise, hope, notwithstanding
difficulties that do or may attempt to intercept, will expect, and
so wait for the accomplishment thereof.

2. Hope is excellent at emboldening a man in the cause of God.
Hence the apostle saith, 'Hope maketh not ashamed'; for not to be
ashamed there, is to be emboldened (Rom 5:5). So again, when Paul
speaks of the troubles he met with for the profession of the gospel,
he saith, that they should turn to his salvation. 'According,'
saith he, 'to my earnest expectation, and my hope, that in nothing
I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now
Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by
death' (Phil 1:19,20). See here, a man at the foot of the ladder,
now ready in will and mind, to die for his profession; but how
will he carry it now? Why, with all brave and innocent boldness!
But how will he do that? O! By the hope of the gospel that is in
him; for by that he is fully persuaded that the cause he suffereth
for will bear him up in the day of God, and that he shall then be
well rewarded for it.[10]

3. It is also excellent at helping one over those difficulties that
men, by frights and terrors, may lay in our way. Hence when David
was almost killed with the reproach and oppression of his enemies,
and his soul full sorely bowed down to the ground therewith; that
he might revive and get up again, he calls to his soul to put in
exercise the grace of hope, saying, 'Why art thou cast down, O my
soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for
I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and
my God' (Psa 42:11). So again saith he in the next Psalm after,
as afore he had complained of the oppression of the enemy, 'Why
art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within
me? Hope in God, for I shall yet praise him, who is the health
of my countenance and my God' (Psa 43:5). Hope, therefore, is a
soul-encouraging grace, a soul-emboldening grace, and a soul-preserving
grace. Hence it is called our helmet or head-piece, the helmet of
salvation (Eph 6:17; 1 Thess 5:8). This is one piece of the armour
with which the Son of God was clothed, when he came into the world;
and it is that against which nothing can prevail (Isa 49:17). For
as long as I can hope for salvation, what can hurt me! This word
spoken in the blessed exercise of grace, I HOPE FOR SALVATION,
drives down all before it. The truth of God is that man's 'shield
and buckler' that hath made the Lord his hope (Psa 91:4).

[Encouragements to exercise this grace.]--And now to encourage
thee, good man, to the exercise of this blessed grace of hope as the
text bids, let me present thee with that which followeth. 1. God,
to show how well he takes hoping in him at our hands, has called
himself 'the God of hope' (Rom 15:13), that is, not only the author
of hope, but the God that takes pleasure in them that exercise it,
'The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope
in his mercy' (Psa 147:11). 2. He will be a shield, a defence to
them that hope in him. 'Thou art my hiding-place and my shield,'
saith David, 'I hope in thy word'; that is, he knew he would be
so; for he hoped in his word (Psa 119:114). 3. He has promised us
the life we hope for, to encourage us still to hope, and to endure
all things to enjoy it (Titus 1:2). 'That he that ploweth should
plow in hope, and that he that thresheth in hope, should be partaker
of his hope' (1 Cor 9:10).

Quest. But you may say, What is it to exercise this grace aright?

Answ. 1. You must look well to your faith, that that may prosper,
for as your faith is, such your hope will be. Hope is never ill
when faith is well; nor strong if faith be weak. Wherefore Paul
prays that the Romans might be filled 'with all joy and peace
in believing,' that they might 'abound in hope' (Rom 15:13). When
a man by faith believes to joy and peace, then hope grows strong,
and with an assurance looketh for a share in the world to come.
Wherefore look to your faith, and pray heartily that the God of
hope will fill you with all joy and peace in believing. 2. Learn
of Abraham not to faint, stumble, or doubt, at the sight of your
own weakness; for if you do, hope will stay below, and creak in the
wheels as it goes, because it will want the oil of faith. But say
to thy soul, when thou beginnest to faint and sink at the sight of
these, as David did to his, in the places made mention of before.
3. Be much in calling to mind what God has done for thee in former
times. Keep thy experience as a choice thing (Rom 5:4). 'Remember
all the way the Lord led thee these forty years in the wilderness'
(Deut 8:2). 'O my God,' saith David, 'my soul is cast down within
me, therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and
of the Hermonites from the hill Mizar' (Psa 42:6). 4. Be much in
looking at the end of things, or rather to the end of this, and
to the beginning of the next world. What we enjoy of God in this
world, may be an earnest of hope, or a token that the thing hoped
for is to be ours at last; but the object of hope is in general the
next world (Heb 11:1). We must therefore put a difference betwixt
the mother of hope, Faith; the means of hope, the Word; the earnest
of hope, Christ in us; and the proper object of hope, to wit, the
world to come, and the goodness thereof (Psa 119:49; Col 1:27).

If Christians have not much here, their hope, as I may so say, lies
idle, and as a grace out of its exercise. For as faith cannot feed
upon patience, but upon Christ, and as the grace of hungering and
thirsting cannot live upon self-fulness, but upon the riches of the
promise; so hope cannot make what is enjoyed its object: 'for what
a man seeth why doth he yet hope for?' (Rom 8:24). But the proper
object of hope is, that we see not. Let faith then be exercised
upon Christ crucified for my justification, and hope upon the next
world for my glorification; and let love show the truth of faith in
Christ, by acts of kindness to Christ and his people; and patience,
the truth of hope, by a quiet bearing and enduring that which may
now be laid upon me for my sincere profession's sake, until the
hope that is laid up for us in heaven shall come to us, or we be
gathered to that, and then hope is in some measure in good order,
and exercised well. But,

IV. We now come to the last thing propounded to be spoken to, which
is, they that have hope and exercise it well, shall assuredly at
last enjoy that hope that is laid up for them in heaven; that is,
they that do regularly exercise the grace of hope shall at last enjoy
the object of it, or the thing hoped for. This must of necessity
be concluded, else we overthrow the whole truth of God at once, and
the expectation of the best of men; yea, if this be not concluded,
what follows, but that Atheism, unbelief, and irreligion, are the
most right, and profane and debauched persons are in the rights
way?

1. But to proceed, this must be, as is evident; for that the things
hoped for are put under the very name of the grace that lives in
the expectation of them. They are called HOPE; 'looking for that
blessed hope'; 'for the hope that is laid up for them in heaven'
(Titus 2:13; Col 1:5). God has set that character upon them, to
signify that they belong to hope, and shall be the reward of hope.
God doth in this, as your great traders do with the goods that their
chapmen have either bought or spoke for; to wit, he sets their name
or mark upon them, and then saith, This belongs to this grace, and
this belongs to that; but the kingdom of heaven belongs to HOPE,
for his name is set upon it. This therefore is one thing, to prove
that the thing hoped for shall be thine; God has marked it for
thee: nor can it be given to those that do not hope. That is, to
the same purpose that you read of, 'That ye may be counted worthy
of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer' (2 Thess 1:5).
Suffering flows from hope; he that hopes not for an house in
heaven, will not for it choose to suffer the loss of the pleasures
and friendships of this world. But they that suffer for it, and
that all do, one way or other, in whom is placed this grace of
hope, they God counteth worthy of it, and therefore, hath marked
it with their mark, HOPE; for that it belongs to hope, and shall
be given to those that hope. That is the first.

2. They that do, as afore is said, exercise this grace of hope,
shall assuredly enjoy the hope that is laid up for them in heaven,
as is evident also from this; because, as God has marked and set
it apart for them, so what he has done to and with our Lord and
Head, since his death, he hath done it to this very end; that is,
to beget and maintain our hope in him as touching this thing. He
'hath begotten us again unto a lively hope, by the resurrection of
Jesus Christ form the dead' (1 Peter 1:3). The meaning is, Christ
is our undertaker, and suffered death for us, that we might enjoy
happiness and glory: and God, to show how wiling he was that we
should have this glory, raised up Christ again, and delivered him
from their sorrows of death. Wherefore, considering this, Paul said,
'He rejoiced in hope of the glory of God'; to wit, of that glory,
that sin, had he not had Jesus for his undertaker, would have caused
that he should certainly have come short of (Rom 3:23, 5:2). But,
again, God 'raised him up from the dead, and gave him glory,' too,
and that to this very end, 'that your faith and hope might be in
God' (1 Peter 1:21). I say, he did it to this very end, that he
might beget in you this good opinion of him, as to hope in him,
that he would give you that good thing hoped for--to wit, eternal
life. He 'gave him glory,' and put it into his hand for you who
is your head and Saviour, that you might see how willing God is to
give you the hope you look for, 'that your faith and hope might be
in God.'

3. That we that have hope and rightly exercise it, might assuredly
enjoy that hope that is laid up for us in heaven: God has promised
it, and that to our Saviour for us. Had he promised it to us, we
might yet have feared, for that with our faults we give a cause
of continual provocation to him. But since he hath promised it to
Christ, it must assuredly come to us by him, because Christ, to
whom it is promised, never gave occasion of provocation to him to
take it back. And that it was promised to Christ, it is evident,
because it was promised before the world began: 'In hope of eternal
life,' saith Paul, 'which God, that cannot lie, promised before
the world began' (Titus 1:2). And this is, that we might hope. Men
that use to hope to enjoy that money or estate, that by those that
are faithful is promised to them, and put into the hands of trusty
persons for them; why this is the case, God that cannot lie, has
promised it to the hopers, and has put it into the hand of the
trusty Jesus for us, therefore let us hope that in his times we
shall both see and enjoy the same we hope for.

4. Yea, that all ground of doubt and scruple as to this might be
removed out of the way, when Christ, who as to what was last said,
is our hope (1 Tim 1:1), shall come, he shall bring that grace and
mercy with him that shall even from before his judgment-seat remove
all those things that might have any tendency in them to deprive
us of our hope, or of the thing hoped for by us. Hence Peter bids
us, 'Be sober and hope to the end, for the grace that is to be
brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ' (1 Peter 1:13).
Also as to this, Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, joins with
him, saying, 'Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the
mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life' (Jude 21). Here
then you see that there is grace and mercy still for us in reversion;
grace and mercy to be brought unto us at the revelation, or second
coming of Jesus Christ. How then can we be hindered of our hope?
For transporting mercy will then be busy for them that indeed have
here the hope of eternal life. 'And they shall be mine, saith the
Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels; and I will
spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him' (Mal
3:17). None knows the mystery of God's will in all things revealed
in his Word. Therefore many texts are looked over, or laid by, as
those whose key doth go too hard; nor will I boast of any singular
knowledge in any particular thing.[11] Yet methinks since grace and
mercy was not only brought by Christ when he came into the world,
but shall be brought again with him when he comes in his Father's
glory, it signifies, that as the first brought the beginning of
eternal life to us while we were enemies, this second will bring the
full enjoyment of it to us while we are saints, attended with many
imperfections. And that as by the first grace of all unworthiness
was pardoned and passed by; so by this second grace, the grace
that is to be brought unto us at the revelation of Jesus Christ,
all shortness in duties, and failings in performances, shall be
spared also; and we made possessors by virtue of this grace and
mercy of the blessings hoped for, to wit, the blessings of eternal
life. But thus much for the duty contained in the exhortation, to
wit, of hoping.

[Second. A direction to the well managing of the duty of hope.]

I shall therefore come, in the next place, to treat of the well
managing of this duty with reference to this primary object, which
is the Lord himself. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' There is a
general object of hope, and there is a particular object; there is
a common object, and there is a special one. Of the general and
common object, to wit, of heaven and happiness, I have said something
already; wherefore it remains that now we come and treat of this
particular and special object of our hope: 'Let Israel hope in the
Lord.' The Lord, therefore, is to be the particular and special
object of our hope: 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' Now in that there
is not only a duty here exhorted to, but a direction for the better
management of that duty, to the particular and special object upon
which this duty should be exercised, it suggesteth, how apt good
men are, especially in times of trouble, the case of Israel now,
to fix their hopes in other things than on the Lord. We have seen
a great deal of this in our days; our days indeed have been days
of trouble, especially since the discovery of the Popish plot, for
then we began to fear cutting of throats, of being burned in our beds,
and of seeing our children dashed in pieces before our faces. But
looking about us, we found we had a gracious king, brave parliaments,
a stout city, good lord-mayors, honest sheriffs, substantial laws
against them, and these we made the object of our hope, quite
forgetting the direction in this exhortation, 'Let Israel hope in
the Lord.' For indeed the Lord ought to be our hope in temporals,
as well as in spirituals and eternals. Wherefore Israel of old were
checked, under a supposition of placing their hope for temporals
in men; 'It is better to trust in the Lord, than to put confidence
in man. It is better to trust in the Lord, than to put confidence
in princes' (Psa 118:8,9). And again, 'Put not your trust in princes,
nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help' (Psa 146:3). This
implieth that there is in us an incidency to forget God our hope,
and to put confidence in something else. And to be sure we shall find
it the more difficult to make the Lord our hope only, when things
that are here, though deceitfully, proffer us their help.[12] But
my design is not to treat of the object of hope but with reference
to the next world. And as to that we must take heed that we set
our hope in God, in God in the first place, and in nothing below or
besides himself. To this end it is that he has given us his word,
and appointed a law to Israel.

I. Because of his own grace he is become the special object of hope,
designating himself in the most special sense to be the portion of
his people (Psa 78:5-7)--'The Lord is my portion, saith my soul,
therefore will I hope in him' (Lam 2:24). Wherefore this we must
look well to, and take heed that we miss not of this object (Psa
146:5). This is the special object, the ultimate object, the object
that we cannot be without; and that, short of which, we cannot be
happy as, God willing, shall be showed more anon (Jer 50:7). God
is not only happiness in himself, but the life of the soul, and
he that puts goodness into every thing in the next world, in which
goodness shall be found (Jer 17:13). And this our Lord Jesus Christ
himself affirmeth, when he saith, 'I am the way,' to wit, the way
to life and happiness. And yet he saith, 'I am the way to the Father,'
for that it is HE that is the fountain and ocean of happiness and
bliss.

So then, that we might in the next world be heirs of the highest
good, God has made us heirs of his own good self; 'Heirs of God, and
joint heirs with Christ'; heirs of God through Christ (Rom 18:17;
Gal 4:7). This God, this eternal God, therefore, is of necessity
to be the object of our hope, because he is, of grace, become our
hope. The church in heaven, called the body and temple of God, is
to be an habitation for himself, when it is finished, to dwell in
for ever and ever. This then we hope for, to wit, to be possessed
at that day with eternal life; eternal glory (1 Tim 6:12,19). Now
this eternal life and eternal glory is through God the hope of his
people (1 Peter 5:10; 1 John 5:20). And for this end, and to this
bliss, are we called and regenerate in this world, 'That being
justified by his grace, we should be made heirs, according to the
hope of eternal life' (Titus 3:7). Nor can it be, that heaven and
happiness should ever be the portion of them that make not God their
hope, any more than such a lady should hope to enjoy the estate of
such a lord, who first makes not the lord himself her husband.[13]
Heaven, heaven is the talk of the ignorant, while the God of heaven
they cannot abide. But shall such ever come to glory? But,

II. God must be the special object of our hope, and him in special
that must be enjoyed by us in the next world, or nothing can make
us happy. We will suppose now, for the illustrating of this matter,
that which is not to be supposed. As,

1. Suppose a man, when he dieth, should go to heaven, that golden
place, what good would this do him, if he was not possessed of the
God of it? It would be, as to sweetness, but a thing unsavoury; as
to durableness, but a thing uncertain; as to society, as a thing
forlorn; and as to life, but a place of death. All this is made to
appear by the angels that fell; for when fallen, what was heaven
to them? Suppose they staid but one quarter of an hour there after
their fall, before they were cast out, what sweetness found they
there, but guilt? What stay, but a continual fall of heart and mind?
What society, but to be abandoned of all? And what life, but death
in its perfection? Yea, if it be true that some think, that for
the promoting of grace, they are admitted yet to enter that place
to accuse the saints on earth, yet what do they find there but what
is grievous to them? It is the presence of God that makes heaven
Heaven in all its beauteousness. Hence David, when he speaks of
heaven, says, 'Whom have I in heaven but thee?' (Psa 73:25). As
who should say, What would heaven yield to me for delights, if I
was there without my God? It is the presence of God that will make
heaven sweet to those who are his. And as it is that that makes
the place, so it is interest in him that makes the company, and
the deeds that are done there, pleasant to the soul. What solace
can he that is without God, though he were in heaven, have with
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the prophets and angels? How could he
join in their thanks, and praises, and blessings of him for ever
and ever, in whose favour, mercy, and grace, they are not concerned?

2. Suppose a man, when he dieth, should be made to live for ever,
but without the enjoyment of God, what good would his life do him?
Why, it would be filled full of horror, darkness, desolation,
sorrow, and all things that would tend to make it bitter to the
soul. Witness they that live in hell; if it be proper to say they
live in hell? It is no more possible for a man to live happily,
were he possessed of all that heaven and life could afford him,
suppose him to be without interest in God, than it is for a man
that hath all the enjoyments of this world, if the sun was taken
from him out of the firmament. As all things, whether it be heaven,
angels, heavenly pleasures and delights, have had their being of
him, so their being is continued by him, and made sweet of him.

Now, for the well managing of our hope, with reference to this
special object of it, there are these things to be considered. And
now I speak to all. We must know him right, we must come to him
right. (1.) We must know him right. It is essential to happiness,
and so to the making of the God of heaven our hope, to know him
rightly (John 17:1-3). It is not every fancy, or every imagination
of God, that thou mayst have, that will prove that therefore thou
knowest God aright. In him there 'is no variableness, neither shadow
of turning' (James 1:17). He only is what he is, what imaginations
soever we have of him. We may set up idols and images of him, as
much in our minds as some do in their houses and in their temples,
and be as great, though not so gross idolaters as they.[14] Now
if thou wouldst know him, thou must diligently feel for him in his
works, in his Word, and in his ways, if perhaps thou mayst find the
knowledge of him (Prov 2:1-5; Acts 17:27). (2.) Beware, when thou
hast found him, that thou go to him by his Son, whom he has sanctified
and sent into the world, to be the way for sinners to go to God;
and see that thou keepest in this path always, for out of him he
is found intolerable, and a consuming-fire. (3.) Busy thyself with
all thy might to make an interest in his Son, and he will willingly
be thy Saviour, for he must become thine before his Father can be
the object of thy hope (John 3:36). He that hath the Son, hath the
Father, but contrariwise, he that hath not him has neither (2 John
9). (4.) Stay not in some transient comforts, but abide restless
till thou seest an union betwixt thee and this Blessed One; to wit,
that he is a root, and thou a branch; that he is head, and thou a
member. And then shalt thou know that the case is so between thee
and him, when grace and his Spirit has made thee to lay the whole
stress of thy justification upon him and has subdued thy heart
and mind to be 'one spirit' with him (Rom 4:4,5; 1 Cor 6:17). (5.)
This done, hope thou in God, for he is become thy hope, that is,
the object of it. And for thy encouragement so to do, consider
that he is able to bear up thy heart, and has said he will do it,
as to this very thing, to all those that thus hope in him. 'Be
of good courage and he shall strengthen thine heart,' all ye that
hope in the Lord (Psa 31:24). It is manifest, as was said before,
that many difficulties lie in the way of hoping; but God will make
those difficulties easy, by strengthening the heart of him that
hopeth, to hope. He has a way to do that, which no creature can
hinder, by the blessed work of his Holy Spirit. He can show us he
loves us, that he may encourage our hope. And as he can work in
us for our encouragement, so he can and will, as was said before,
himself, in his time, answer our hope, by becoming our hope himself.
'The Lord shall be the hope of his people, and the strength of the
children of Israel' (Joel 3:16).

His faithfulness also is a great encouragement to his, to hope for
the accomplishment of all that he hath promised unto his people.
'Hath he said it, and shall he not make it good?' When he promised
to bring Israel into the land of Canaan, he accomplished it to a
tittle. 'There failed not ought of any good thing which the Lord
had spoken unto the house of Israel; all came to pass' (Josh 21:45,
23:14). Also what he with his mouth had promised to David, with
his hand he fulfilled to Solomon in the view of all the thousands
of Israel (1 Kings 8:22-24; 2 Chron 6:7-10).

[Third. The persons who are concerned in the management of this
duty of hope.]

I will omit making mention again of the encouragements spoken of
before, and shall now come to the third thing specified in this
part of the text, to wit, to show more distinctly, who, and what
particular persons they are, who are concerned in this exhortation
to hope.

They are put, as you see, under this general term Israel; 'Let
Israel hope in the Lord.' And, 'He shall save Israel from all his
troubles.' Israel is to be taken three ways, in the Scripture. 1.
For such that are Israel after the flesh. 2. For such as are such
neither after the flesh nor the Spirit; but in their own fancies
and carnal imaginations only. 3. For such as are Israel after God,
or the Spirit.

1. Israel is to be taken for those that are such after the flesh;
that is, for those that sprang from the loins of Jacob, and are
called, 'Israel after the flesh, the children of the flesh.' Now
these, as such, are not the persons interested in this exhortation,
for by the flesh comes no true spiritual and eternal grace (Rom
9:6-8; 2 Cor 1:10-18). Men are not within the bounds of the promise
of eternal life, as they are the children of the flesh, either in
the more gross or more refined sense (Phil 3:4-6). Jacob was as
spiritual a father as any HE, I suppose that now professeth the
gospel; but his spiritualness could not convey down to this children,
that were such only after the flesh, that spirit and grace that
causeth sound conversion, and salvation by Jesus Christ. Hence Paul
counts it a carnal thing to glory in this; and tells us plainly,
If he had heretofore known Christ thus, that is, to have been his
brother or kinsman, according to the flesh, or after that, he would
henceforth know him, that is, so, 'no more' (2 Cor 5:16-18). For
though the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet not
that multitude, but the remnant that the Lord hath chosen and shall
call, shall be saved (Rom 9:27; Joel 2:32). This, therefore, is
as an arrow against the face of that false doctrine that the Jews
leaned upon, to wit, that they were in the state of grace, and
everlasting favour of God, because the children and offspring of
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But,

2. Israel may be taken for such as are neither so after the flesh,
nor the Spirit, but in their own fancy and imagination only. And
such I take to be all those that you read of in Revelation 2:9
which said 'they were Jews, and were not,' 'but did lie' (3:9).

These I take to be those carnal gospellers,[15] that from among the
Gentiles pretended themselves to be Jews inwardly, whose circumcision
is that of the heart in the spirit, when they were such only in
their own fancies and conceits, and made their profession out as a
lie (Rom 2:28,29). Abundance of these there are at this day in the
world; men who know neither the Father, nor the Son, nor anything
of the way of the Spirit, in the work of regeneration; and yet
presume to say, 'They are Jews'; that is, truly and spiritually
the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 'For' now, 'he is not a
Jew which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is
outward in the flesh; but he is a Jew which is one inwardly, and
circumcision is that of the heart in the spirit,--whose praise is
not of men, but of God.' And although it may please some now to
say, as they of old said to them of the captivity, 'We seek your
God as ye do' (Ezra 4:2); yet at last it will be found, that as
they, such have 'no portion, nor right, nor memorial, in Jerusalem'
(Neh 2:20). And I would from hence caution all to take heed of
presuming to count themselves Jews, unless they have a substantial
ground so to do. For to do this without a good bottom, makes all
our profession a lie; and not only so, but it hindereth us of a
sight of a want of an interest in Jesus Christ, without which we
cannot be saved; yea, such an one is the great self-deceiver, and
so the worst deceiver of all: for he that deceives his own self,
his own heart, is a deceiver in the worst sense; nor can any
disappointment be like unto that which casts away soul and body at
once (James 1:22,26). O slender thread! that a man should think, that
because he fancieth himself 'an Israelite indeed,' that therefore
he shall go for such an one in the day of judgment; or that he
shall be able to cheat God with a pitiful say-so!

3. But the Israel under consideration in the text, is Israel after
God, or the Spirit; hence they are called 'the Israel of God,'
because they are made so of him, not by generation, nor by fancy,
but by Divine power (Can 6:16). And thus was the first of this name
made so, 'Thy name shall be called no more Jacob but Israel' (Gen
32:28). This then is the man concerned in the text, 'Let Israel
hope in the Lord'; to wit, Israel that is so of God's making, and
of God's allowance: for men are not debarred from calling themselves
after this most godly name, provided they are so indeed; all that
is dangerous is, when men shall think this privilege comes by carnal
generation, or that their fancying of themselves to be such will
bear them out in the day of judgment. Otherwise, if men become the
true servants of God by Christ, they have, as I said, an allowance
so to subscribe themselves. 'One shall say, I am the Lord's and
another shall call himself by the name of Jacob, and another shall
subscribe with his hand unto the Lord, and surname himself by the
name of Israel' (Isa 44:5). But then, for the further describing
of such, they must be men of circumcised and tender hearts; they
must be such 'which worship God in the spirit, and that rejoice
in Christ Jesus, and that have no confidence in the flesh' (Phil
3:3), for these are the Nathaniels, the Israelites indeed in whom
there is no guile (John 1:47), and these are they that are intended
in the exhortation, when he saith, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.'

For these are formed for that very end, that they might hope in
the Lord; yea, the word and testament are given to them for this
purpose (Psa 78:5-7). These are prisoners of hope all the time they
are in the state of nature, even as the whole creation is subjected
under hope, all the time of its bondage, by the sin and villainy
of man; and unto them it shall be said, in the dispensation of the
fullness of time, 'Turn you to the strong hold, ye prisoners of
hope' (Zech 9:12); as certainly as that which is called the creature
itself shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption, into the
glorious liberty of the children of God (Rom 8:18-21). Only here,
as I said before, let all men have a care in this thing: this is
the pinnacle, the point; he that is right here, is right in all
that is necessary to salvation; but he that misses here, can by no
means be right anywhere to his soul's advantage in the other world.

[Improvement.] If I should a little improve the text where this
title is first given to man, and show the posture he was in when
it was said to him, 'Thy name shall be called Israel'; and should
also debate upon the cause or ground of that, 'An Israelite indeed,'
thou mightest not repent it who shall read it; and therefore a few
words to each.

1. When Jacob received the name of Israel, he was found wrestling
with the angel; yea, and so resolved a wrestler was he, that he
purposed, now he had begun, not to give out without a blessing, 'I
will not let thee go,' said he, 'except thou bless me' (Gen 32:26).
Discouragements he had while he wrestled with him, to have left
off, before he obtained his desire; for the angel bid him leave
off; 'let me go,' said he. He had wrestled all night, and had not
prevailed; and now the day brake upon him, and consequently his
discouragement was like to be the greater, for that now the majesty
and terribleness of him with whom he wrestled would be seen more
apparently; but this did not discourage him: besides, he lost the
use of a limb as he wrestled with him; yet all would not put this
Israel out. Pray he did, and pray he would, and nothing should make
him leave off prayer, until he had obtained, and therefore he was
called 'Israel.' 'For as a prince hast thou power with God and
with men, and hast prevailed' (Gen 32:28,30). A wrestling spirit
of prayer is a demonstration of an Israel of God; this Jacob had,
this he made use of, and by this he obtained the name of 'Israel.'
A wrestling spirit of prayer in straits, difficulties, and distresses;
a wrestling spirit of prayer when alone in private, in the night,
when none eye seeth but God's then to be at it, then to lay hold
of God, then to wrestle, to hold fast, and not to give over until
the blessing is obtained, is a sign of one that is an Israel of
God.

2. 'Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile' (John 1:47).
This was the testimony of the Lord Jesus concerning Nathaniel (v
46). Nathaniel was persuaded by Philip to come to Jesus, and as
he was coming, Jesus saith to the rest of the disciples concerning
him, 'Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile.' Then said
Nathaniel to Jesus, 'Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said
unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the
fig-tree I saw thee' (v 15). Nathaniel, as Jacob, was at prayer,
at prayer alone under the fig-tree, wrestling in prayer, for what
no man can certainly tell, but probably for the Messias, or for the
revelation of him: for the seeing Jews were convinced that the time
of the promise was out; and all men were in expectation concerning
John, whether he might not be he (Luke 3:15). But Nathaniel was
under the fig-tree, alone with God, to inquire of him, and that
with great earnestness and sincerity; else the Lord Jesus would
not thus have excused him of hypocrisy, and justified his action
as he did, concluding from what he did there that he was a true
son of Jacob; and ought, as he, to have his name changed from what
his parents gave him, to this given him of Christ, 'An Israelite
indeed.' Wherefore, from both these places, it is apparent, that
a wrestling spirit of prayer, in private, is one of the best signs
that this or that man or woman is of Israel; and, consequently,
such who are within the compass of the exhortation here, saying,
'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' I say, it is this wrestling spirit
of prayer with God alone; for as for that of public prayer, though
I will not condemn it, it gives not ground for this character,
notwithstanding all the flourishes and excellencies that may
therein appear. I am not insensible what pride, what hypocrisy,
what pretences, what self-seekings of commendations and applause,
may be countenanced by those concerned in, or that make public
prayers; and how little thought or savour of God may be in all so
said; but this closet, night, or alone prayer, is of another stamp,
and attended, at least so I judge, with that sense, those desires,
that simplicity, and those strugglings, wherewith that in public is
not.[16] Nay, I think verily a man cannot addict himself to these
most solemn retirements, without some of Jacob's and Nathaniel's
sense and sincerity, wrestlings and restlessness for mercy; wherefore,
laying aside all other, I shall abide by this, That the man that
is as I have here described, is not an Israelite of the flesh, nor
one so only in his fancy or imagination, but one made so of God; one
that is called a child of promise, and one to whom this exhortation
doth belong: 'Let Israel hope in the Lord'; to wit, they that serve
God by prayer day and night (Luke 2:37; Acts 26:5-7). These, I say,
are Israel, the Israel of God, and let these hope in the Lord, from
now, 'henceforth, and for ever' (Psa 131:3).

[SECOND. The manner by which the exhortation is expressed.]

Having thus briefly touched upon those three things that are
contained in the matter of the exhortation, I now come to speak a
word to the manner of praises by which the exhortation is presented
to us, 'Let Israel hope'; he doth not say, Israel hath hoped; Israel
did hope; or Israel can hope, but 'let Israel hope in the Lord.'
'Let' is a word very copious, and sometimes signifies this, and
sometimes that, even according as the nature or reason of the thing
under debate, or to be expressed, will with truth and advantage
bear. Let him hope,

First. Sometimes 'let' is equivalent to a command; 'Let every soul be
subject to the higher powers,' this is a command. 'Let all things
be done decently and in order,' this also is a command. So here,
'Let Israel hope,' this also is a command; and so enjoins a duty
upon Israel; for why, since they seek for mercy, should they not
have it; now a command lays a very strong obligation upon a man
to do this or another duty. 'He commandeth all men every where
to repent'; but Israel only to hope in his mercy. Now take the
exhortation and convert it into a commandment, and it showeth us,
(1.) in what good earnest God offers his mercy to his Israel; he
commands them to hope in him, as he is and will be so to them. (2.)
It supposes an impediment in Israel, as to the faculty of receiving
or hoping in God for mercy; we that would have God be merciful, we
that cry and pray to him to show us mercy, have yet that weakness
and impediment in our faith, which greatly hindereth us from a
steadfast hoping in the Lord for mercy. (3.) It suggesteth also,
that Israel SINS, if he hopeth not in God, God would not that all
should attempt to hope, because they have no faith; for he is for
having of them first believe, knowing that it is in vain to think
of hoping, until they have believed; but Israel has believed, and
therefore God has commanded them to hope, and they sin if they obey
him not in this, as in all other duties. He commands thee, I say,
since thou hast believed in his Son, to hope, that is, to expect
to see his face in the next world with joy and comfort; this is
hoping, this is thy duty, this God commands thee.

Second. As this word 'let' is sometimes equivalent to a command, so
it is expressed sometimes also to show a grant, leave, or license,
to do a thing: such are these that follow, 'Let us come boldly to
the throne of grace' (Heb 4:6). 'Let us draw near with a true heart'
(ch 10). 'Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without
wavering' (vv 22,23). Here also this manner of expressing the
thing may be taken in the same sense, to wit, to show that Israel
has a grant, a leave, a license, to trust in the Lord. And O! what
a privilege is this, but who believes it? And yet as truly as God
has granted to Jacob, to Israel, repentance unto life, and by that
means has made him fly for refuge, to lay hold of Christ set before
him as a justifier; so has he granted him leave and license to
trust in him for ever, and to hope for his favour in the next world.

And if you take the word in this sense, to wit, for a grant, leave,
or license, to hope in God; then (1.) This shows how liberal God
is of himself, and things, to Israel. Let Israel hope in me, trust
to me, expect good things at my hand; I give him leave and license
to do it. Let him live in a full expectation of being with me, and
with my Son in glory; I give him leave to do so; he has license
from me to do so. (2.) Understand the word thus, and it shows us
with what boldness and confidence God would have us hope in him.
They that have leave and license to do a thing, may do it with
confidence and boldness, without misgivings and reluctance of mind;
this is our privilege; we may live in a full assurance of hope unto
the end, we may hope perfectly to the end, we have leave, license,
and a grant to do it. (3.) Understand the word thus, and it also
shows you how muddy, how dark those of Israel are, and how little
they are acquainted with the goodness of their God, who stand
shrinking at his door like beggars, and dare not in a godly sort
be bold, with his mercy. Wherefore standest thou thus with thy Ifs
and thy O-buts, O thou poor benighted Israelite. Wherefore puttest
thou thy hand in thy bosom, as being afraid to touch the hem of
the garment of the Lord? Thou hast a leave, a grant, a license,
to hope for good to come, thy Lord himself has given it to thee,
saying, 'LET Israel hope in the Lord.'

Third. This word 'let' is also sometimes used by way of rebuke and
snub; 'Let her alone, for her soul is vexed' (2 Kings 4:27). 'Let
her alone, why trouble ye her?' (Mark 14:6). 'Refrain from these
men, and let them alone' (Acts 5:38). And it may also so be taken
here. But if so, then it implies, that God in this exhortation
rebuketh those evil instruments, those fallen angels, with all
others that attempt to hinder us in the exercise of this duty. As
Boaz said to his servants, when Ruth was to glean in his field,
'let her glean even among the sheaves, and reproach her not' (Ruth
2:15,16). We have indeed those that continually endeavour to hinder
us of living in the full assurance of hope, as to being with God
and with Christ in glory: but here is a rebuke for such, 'Let Israel
hope in the Lord.' And it shows us, 1. That what suggestions come
from Satan to make us that are Israelites to doubt, come not for
that end, by virtue of any commission that he hath from God. God
has rebuked him in the text, and you may see it also elsewhere.
These temptations, therefore, are rather forged of malice, and of
despite to our faith and hope; and so should be accounted by us
(Zech 1:1-3). 2. This shows us also that we should take heed of
crediting of that which comes unto us to hinder our hope in the
Lord; lest we take part with Satan, while God rebuketh him, and
countenanceth that which fights against the grace of God in us. 3.
It shows us also that as faith, so hope, cannot be maintained with
great difficulty, and that we should endeavour to maintain it, and
hope through every difficulty.

Fourth. This word 'LET' is sometimes used by way of request or
intreaty. 'I pray thee, LET Tamar my sister come' (2 Sam 13:6).
'LET it be granted to the Jews to do,' &c. (Esth 9:13). And if it
be so to be taken here, or if in the best sense this interpretation
of it may here be admitted, the consideration thereof is amazing;
for then it is all one as if God by the mouth of his servant, the
penman of this psalm, did intreat us to hope in him. And why this
may not be implied here, as well as expressed elsewhere, I know
not. 'God did beseech you by us; we pray you in Christ's stead, be
ye reconciled to God' (2 Cor 5:20). Why should God beseech us to
reconcile to him, but that we might hope in him? and if it be thus
taken here, it shows, 1. The great condescension of God, in that
he doth not only hold out to us the advantages of hoping in God,
but desires that we should hope, that we might indeed be partakers
of those advantages. 2. It teaches us also humility, and that
always in the acts of faith and hope we should mix blushing, and
shame, with our joy and rejoicing. Kiss the ground, sinner; put
'thy mouth in the dust, if so be there may be hope' (Lam 3:29).

Fifth. And lastly, This word is used sometimes by way of caution.
'Let him that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall' (1
Cor 10:12). 'Let us therefore fear lest a promise being left us of
entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it'
(Heb 4:1), and if it should be so taken here, then, 1. This shows
us the evil of despair, and that we at times are incident to it; our
daily weaknesses, our fresh guilt, our often decays, our aptness to
forget the goodness of God, are direct tendencies unto this evil,
of which we should be aware; for it robs God of his glory, and
us of our comfort, and gratifies none but the devil and unbelief.
2. It showeth us that despair is a fall, a falling down from our
liberty; our liberty is to hope; it is our portion from God; for
he hath said that himself will be the hope of his people. To do
the contrary, is therefore a falling from God, a departing from
God through an evil heart of unbelief. It is the greatest folly in
the world for an Israelite to despair; 'Why sayest thou, O Jacob,
and speakest, O Israel. My way is hid from the Lord, and my judgment
is passed over from my God? Hast thou not known? hast thou not
heard, that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends
of the earth, fainteth not? There is no searching of his understanding.
He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might, he
increaseth strength. Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and
the young men shall utterly fall. But they that wait upon,' that
is, hope in, 'the Lord, shall renew their strength; they shall mount
up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, and they
shall walk and not faint' (Isa 40:27-31).

[THIRD. Inferences from the exhortation.]

Now we come to those inferences that do naturally flow from this
exhortation, and they are in number four.

First. That hope and the exercise of it, is as necessary in its
place, as faith, and the exercise of it. All will grant that there
is need of a daily exercise of faith; and we are bid to hope unto
the end, because hope is the grace that relieveth the soul when dark
and weary. Hope is as the bottle to the faint and sinking spirit.
Hope calls upon the soul not to forget how far it is arrived in
its progress towards heaven. Hope will point and show it the gate
afar off; and therefore it is called the hope of salvation. Hope
exerciseth itself upon God.

1. By those mistakes that the soul hath formerly been guilty of,
with reference to the judgment that it hath made of God, and of his
dealings with it. And this is an excellent virtue. 'I said,' once
says the church, that 'my hope is perished from the Lord,' but I
was deceived; 'this I recall to my mind, therefore have I hope';
that is, why, if I give way to such distrusting thoughts, may I not
be wrong again? (Lam 3:18-21). Therefore will I hope! This virtue
is that which belongs to this grace only; for this and this only is
it that can turn unbelief and doubts to advantage. 'I said in my
haste,' said David, 'I am cut off from before thine eyes'; nevertheless
I was mistaken; 'thou heardest the voice of my supplications when
I cried unto thee' (Psa 31:22). And what use doth he make of this?
Why, an exhortation to all good men to hope, and to take advantage
to hope from the same mistakes. I think I am cast off from God,
says the soul; so thou thoughtest afore, says memory, but thou
wast mistaken then, and why not the like again? and therefore will
I hope. When I had concluded that God would never come near me
more, yet after that he came to me again, and as I was then, so I
am now; therefore will I hope.

2. True hope, in the right exercise of it upon God, makes no stick
at weakness or darkness; but rather worketh up the soul to some
stay, by these. Thus Abraham's hope wrought by his weakness (Rom
4). And so Paul, when I am weak, then I am strong; I will most
gladly therefore rejoice in mine infirmities (2 Cor 12). But this
cannot be done where there is no hope, nor but by hope: for it is
hope, and the exercise of it, that can say, Now I expect that God
should bring good out of all this. And as for the dark, it is its
element to act in that: 'But hope that is seen is not hope' (Rom
8:24). But we must hope for that we see not. So David, 'Why art
thou cast down, O my soul? hope thou in God.' Christians have no
reason to mistrust the goodness of God, because of their weakness,
&c. 'I had fainted unless I had believed to see' (Psa 27:13). By
believing there, he means hoping to see, as the exhortation drawn
from thence doth import.

3. Hope will make use of our calling, to support the soul, and to
help it, by that, to exercise itself in a way of expectation of good
from God. Hence the apostle prays for the Ephesians, that they may
be made to see what is 'the hope of their calling'; that is, what
good that is which by their calling they have ground to hope is
laid up in heaven, and to be brought unto them at the appearance
of Jesus Christ (Eph 1:17,18). For thus the soul by this grace of
hope will reason about this matter: God has called me; surely it is
to a feast. God has called me to the fellowship of his Son, surely
it is that I may be with him in the next world. God has given me
the spirit of faith and prayer; surely it is that I might hope for
what I believe is, and wait for what I pray for. God his given me
some tastes already; surely it is to encourage me to hope that he
purposeth to bring me into the rich fruition of the whole.

4. Hope will exercise itself upon God by those breakings wherewith
he breaketh his people for their sins. 'The valley of Achor' must
be given 'for a door of hope' (Hosea 2:15). The valley of Achor; what
is that? Why, the place where Achan was stoned for his wickedness,
and the place where all Israel was afflicted for the same (Josh 7).
I say, hope can gather by this, that God has a love to the soul; for
when God hateth a man he chastiseth him not for his trespasses.[17]
'If ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are
ye bastards, and not sons' (Heb 12:8). Hence Moses tells Israel,
that when the hand of God was upon them for their sins, they should
consider in their heart, 'that as a man chasteneth his son, so the
Lord thy God chasteneth thee' (Deut 8:5). And why thus consider,
but that a door might be opened for hope to exercise itself upon
God by this? This is that also that is intended in Paul to the
Corinthians, 'When we are judged we are chastened of the Lord,
that we should not be condemned with the world' (1 Cor 11:32). Is
not here a door of hope? And why a door of hope, but that by it,
God's people, when afflicted, should go out by it from despair by
hope?

[Second.] But it is to be inferred, secondly, That the exercise
of hope upon God is very delightful to him: else he would not have
commanded and granted us a liberty to hope, and have snibbed those
that would hinder. 'Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that
fear him; upon them that hope in his mercy; to deliver their soul
from death, and to keep them alive in famine' (Psa 33:18,19). That
God is much delighted in the exercise of this grace, is evident,
because of the preparation that he has made for this grace, wherewith
to exercise itself. 'For whatsoever things were writ aforetime, were
written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of
the Scriptures might have hope' (Rom 15:4). Mark, the whole history
of the Bible, with the relation of the wonderful works of God with
his people from the beginning of the world, are written for this
very purpose, that we, by considering and comparing, by patience
and comfort of them, might have hope. The Bible is the scaffold or
stage that God has builded for hope to play his part upon in this
world. It is therefore a thing very delightful to God to see hope
rightly given its colour before him; hence he is said, 'to laugh
at the trial of the innocent' (Job 9:23). Why at his trial? Because
his trial puts him upon the exercise of hope: for then indeed there
is work for hope, when trials are sharp upon us. But why is God
so delighted in the exercise of this grace of hope?

1. Because hope is a head-grace and governing. There are several
lusts in the soul that cannot be mastered, if hope be not in
exercise; especially if the soul be in great and sore trials. There
is peevishness and impatience, there is fear and despair, there
is doubting and misconstruing of God's present hand; and all these
become masters, if hope be not stirring; nor can any grace besides
put a stop to their tumultuous raging in the soul. But now hope in
God makes them all hush, takes away the occasion of their working,
and lays the soul at the foot of God. 'Surely,' saith the Psalmist,
'I have behaved and quieted myself as a child that is weaned of
his mother, my soul is even as a weaned child.' But how came he to
bring his soul into so good a temper? Why, that is gathered by the
exhortation following, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord from henceforth
and for ever' (Psa 131:2,3). It was by hoping in the Lord that he
quieted his soul, and all its unruly sinful passions.

2. As hope quasheth and quieteth sinful passions, so it putteth
into order some graces that cannot be put into order without it:
as patience, meekness, silence, and long-suffering, and the like.
These are all in a day of trial out of place, order, and exercise,
where hope forbeareth to work. I never saw a distrusting man, a
patient man, a quiet man, a silent man, and a meek man, under the
hand of God, except he was 'dead in sin' at the time. But we are not
now talking of such. But now let a man hope in the Lord, and he
presently concludes this affliction is for my good, a sign God loves
me, and that which will work out for me a far more and exceeding
and eternal weight of glory; and so it puts the graces of the soul
into order (Luke 21:19). Wherefore patience, by which a man is bid
to possess or keep his soul under the cross, is called 'the patience
of hope' (1 Thess 1:3). So in another place, when he would have the
church patient in tribulation, and continue instant in prayer, he
bids them 'rejoice in hope,' knowing that the other could not be
done without it (Rom 12:12).

3. God takes much delight in the exercise of hope, because it
construeth all God's dispensations, at present, towards it, for the
best: 'When he hath tried me I shall come forth like gold' (Job
23:10). This is the language of hope. God, saith the soul, is doing
of me good, making of me better, refining of my inward man. Take a
professor that is without hope, and either he suffereth affliction
of pride and ostentation, or else he picks a quarrel with God and
throws up all. For he thinks that God is about to undo him; but hope
construeth all to the best, and admits no such unruly passions to
carry the man away.

4. Therefore hope makes the man, be the trials what they will, to
keep still close to the way and path of God. 'My foot,' said hoping
Job, 'hath held his steps, his way have I kept and not declined,
neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips' (Job
23:11,12). And again, 'Our heart is not turned back, neither have
our steps declined from thy way: though thou hast sore broken us
in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death'
(Psa 44:18,19). But how came they thus patiently to endure? Why,
they by hope put patience and prayer into exercise. They knew that
their God was as it were but asleep, and that in his time he would
arise for their help; and when he did arise he would certainly
deliver. Thus is this psalm applied by Paul (Rom 8).

[Third.] There is also inferred from this exhortation, that
the hope of those that are not Israelites is not esteemed of God.
'Let Israel hope.' The words are exclusive, shutting out the rest.
He doth not say, Let Amalek hope, let Babylon, or the Babylonians
hope; but even in and by this exhortation shutteth out both the
rest and their hope from his acceptance. This being concluded, it
follows, that some may hope and not be the better for their hope.
'The hypocrite's hope shall perish' (Job 8:13); their hope shall
be as the giving up of the ghost (11:20). 'For what is the hope of
the hypocrite?' (27:8). Again, 'The hope of unjust men perisheth'
(Prov 11:7). There is a hope that perisheth, both it and he that
hoped with it together. The reasons are,

1. Because it floweth not from faith and experience, but rather
from conceit and presumption. Hope, as I have told you, if it be
right, cometh of faith, and is brought forth by experience: but the
hope now under consideration is alone, and has no right original,
and therefore not regarded. It is not the hope of God, but the hope
of man; that is, it is not the hope of God's working, but the hope
that standeth in natural abilities. 'Thou washest away the things
which grow out of the dust of the earth, and thou destroyest the hope
of man' (Job 14:19). Whatsoever in religious matters is but of a
carnal and earthly existence, must be washed away, when the overflowing
scourge shall at the end pass over the world (Isa 28:17-19).

2. Because the Lord's mercy is not the object of it. The worldly
man makes gold, or an arm of flesh his hope; that is, the object
of it, and so he despiseth God (Job 31:24; Jer 3:23). Or if he be
a religious hypocrite, his hope terminates in his own doings: he
trusteth, or hopeth, in himself, that he is righteous (Luke 18:9).
All these things are abhorred of God, nor can he, with honour to
his name, or in a compliance with his own eternal designs, give
any countenance to such a hope as this.

3. This hope has no good effect on the heart and mind of him that
hath it. It purifieth not the soul, it only holds fast a lie, and
keeps a man in a circuit, at an infinite distance from waiting upon
God.

4. This hope busieth all the powers of the soul about things that
are of the world, or about those false objects on which it is pitched;
even as the spider diligently worketh in her web--unto which also
this hope is compared--in vain. This hope will bring that man that
has it, and exercises it, to heaven, when leviathan is pulled out
of the sea with a hook; or when his jaw is bored through with a
thorn: but as he that thinks to do this, hopeth in vain; so, even
so, will the hope of the other be as unsuccessful; 'So are the
paths of all that forget God, and the hypocrite's hope shall perish;
whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall be a spider's
web. He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand; he shall
hold it fast, but it shall not endure' (Job 8:13-15, 41:1-9). This
is the hope that is not esteemed of God, nor the persons that have
it, preferred by him a whit before their own dung (Job 20:4-8).

[Fourth.] There is also inferred from these words, That Israel
himself is subject to swerve in his soul about the object of hope.
For this text is to him as a command and grant, so an instruction
by which he is to be informed, how and upon whom to set his hope.
That Israel is apt to swerve as to the object of his hope, is
evident, for that so much ado is made by the prophets to keep him
upon his God; in that so many laws and statutes are made to direct
him to set his hope in God: and also by his own confession (Psa
78:7; Jer 3:23-25; Lam 4:17). The fears also and the murmurings and
the faintings that attend the godly in this life, do put the truth
of this inference out of doubt. It is true, the apostle said, that
he had the sentence of death in himself, that he might not trust
or hope in himself, but in God that raiseth the dead. But this was
an high pitch; Israel is not always here; there are many things
that hinder. (1.) The imperfection of our graces. There is no grace
perfected in the godly. Now it is incident to things defective,
to be wanting in their course. Faith is not perfect; and hence the
sensible Christian feels what follows: love is not perfect, and
we see what follows; and so of hope and every other grace; their
imperfection makes them stagger. 2. Israel is not yet beyond
temptations. There is a deal to attend him with temptations, and he
has a soul so disabled by sin, that at all times he cannot fix on
God that made him, but is apt to be turned aside to lying vanities:
the very thing that Jonah was ensnared with (2:8).

3. The promising helps that seem to be in other things, are great
hindrances to a steady fixing, by hope, on God; there are good
frames of heart, enlargements in duties, with other the like, that
have through the darkness, and the legality of our spirits been
great hindrances to Israel. Not that their natural tendency is to
turn us aside; but our corrupt reason getting the upper hand, and
bearing the stroke in judgment, converts our minds and consciences
to the making of wrong conclusions upon them. 4. Besides, as the
mind and conscience, by reason, is oft deluded to draw these wrong
conclusions upon our good frames of heart, to the removing of our
hope from the right object unto them; so by like reason, are we
turned by unwholesome doctrines, and a carnal understanding of the
Word, to the very same thing: 'cisterns, broken cisterns that can
hold no water,' Israel, even God's people, are apt to make unto
themselves to the forsaking of their God (Jer 2:11-13).

Thus have I gone through the first part of the text, which consists
of an exhortation to hope in the Lord. And have showed you, 1. The
matter contained therein. 2. Something of the reason of the manner
of the phrase. 3. And have drawn, as you see, some inferences from
it.

[SECOND. THE REASON URGED TO ENFORCE THE EXHORTATION.]

I now come to the second part of the text, which is a reason urged
to enforce the exhortation, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.' Why?
'For with the Lord there is mercy.' There is the reason, let him
hope, for there is mercy; let him hope in the Lord, for with him
there is mercy. The reason is full and suitable. For what is the
ground of despair, but a conceit that sin has shut the soul out
of all interest in happiness? and what is the reason of that, but
a persuasion that there is no help for him in God? Besides, could
God do all but show mercy, yet the belief of that ability would
not be a reason sufficient to encourage the soul to hope in God.
For the block SIN, which cannot be removed but by mercy, still
lies in the way. The reason therefore is full and suitable, having
naturally an enforcement in it, to the exhortation. And,

First. To touch upon the reason in a way general, and then [Second]
to come to it more particularly. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord, for
with the Lord there is mercy,' mercy to be bestowed, mercy designed
to be bestowed.

1. Mercy to be bestowed. This must be the meaning. What if a man
has never so much gold or silver, or food, or raiment: yet if he
has none to communicate, what is the distressed, or those in want,
the better? What if there be mercy with God, yet if he has none
to bestow, what force is there in the exhortation, or what shall
Israel, if he hopeth, be the better. But God has mercy to bestow,
to give. 'He saith on this wise, I will give you the sure mercies
of David' (Acts 13:34). And again, 'The Lord give mercy unto
the house of Onesiphorus' (2 Tim 1:16). Now then, here lies the
encouragement. The Lord has mercy to give; he has not given away
ALL his mercy; his mercy is not clean gone for ever (Psa 77:8).
He has mercy yet to give away, yet to bestow upon his Israel. 'Let
Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy.'

2. As there is with God mercy to be bestowed, so there is mercy
designed to be bestowed or given to Israel. Some men lay by what
they mean to give away, and put that in a bag by itself, saying,
This I design to give away, this I purpose to bestow upon the poor.
Thus God; he designeth mercy for his people (Dan 9:4). Hence the
mercy that God's Israel are said to be partakers of, is a mercy kept
for them. And 'thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the
poor,' and laid up for them (Psa 68:10). This is excellent and is
true, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord, for there is with him mercy,'
kept, prepared, and laid up for them! (Psa 61:7). When God designs
the bestowing of mercy, we may well hope to be partakers (Psa 31:19).
The poor will go merrily to weddings and funerals, and hope for an
alms all the way they go, when they come to understand that there
is so much kept, prepared, and laid up for them by the bridegroom,
&c.[18] But 'He keepeth mercy for thousands!' (Exo 34:7).

3. As God has mercies to bestow, and as he has designed to bestow
them, so those mercies are no fragments or the leavings of others:
but mercies that are full and complete to do for thee, what thou
wantest, wouldst have, or canst desire. As I may so say, God has
his bags that were never yet untied, never yet broken up, but laid
by him through a thousand generations, for those that he commands
to hope in his mercy. As Samuel kept the shoulder for Saul, and as
God brake up that decreed place for the sea, so hath he set apart,
and will break up his mercy for his people: mercy and grace that
he gave us before we had a being, is the mercy designed for Israel
(2 Tim 1:9). Whole mercies are allotted to us; however, mercy
sufficient (1 Sam 9:23-24; Job 38:10). But to be a little more
distinct.

[Second, particularly.] I find that the goodness of God to his
people is diversely expressed in his word: sometimes by the word
grace; sometimes by the word love; and sometimes by the word mercy;
even as our badness against him is called iniquity, transgression,
and sin. When it is expressed by that word 'grace,' then it is to
show that what he doth is of his princely will, his royal bounty,
and sovereign pleasure. When it is expressed by that word 'love,'
then it is to show us that his affection was and is in what he
doth, and that he doth what he doth for us, with complacency and
delight. But when it is set forth to us under the notion of 'mercy,'
then it bespeaks us to be in a state both wretched and miserable,
and that his bowels and compassions yearn over us in this our fearful
plight. Now, the Holy Ghost chooseth--as it should seem--in this
place, to present us with that goodness that is in God's heart
towards us, rather under the term of mercy; for that, as I said
before, it so presenteth us with our misery, and his pity and
compassion; and because it best pleaseth us when we apprehend God
in Christ as one that has the love of compassion and pity for us.
Hence we are often presented with God's goodness to us to cause us
to hope, under the name of pity and compassion. 'In his pity he
redeemed them,' and 'like as a father pitieth his children, so the
Lord pitieth them that fear him' (Isa 63:9; Psa 103:13). 'The Lord
is very pitiful and of tender mercy,' he also is gracious and 'full
of compassion' (James 5:11; Psa 78:38). 'Thou, O Lord, art a God
full of compassion,' and thy 'compassions fail not' (Psa 86:15,
111:4; Lam 3:22).

The words being thus briefly touched upon, I shall come to treat
of two things. FIRST, more distinctly, I shall show you what kind
of mercy is with the Lord, as a reason to encourage Israel to
hope. SECONDLY, And then shall show what is to be inferred from
this reason, 'Let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there
is mercy.'

[FIRST, The kind of mercy that Israel is to hope for.]

First, 'With him there is TENDER MERCY, and therefore let Israel
hope' (Psa 25:6, 103:4, 119:156). Tender mercy is mercy in mercy,
and that which Israel of old had in high estimation, cried much for,
and chose that God would deal with their souls by that. 'Withhold
not thou thy tender mercies from me,' said David, and 'according
unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions'
(Psa 40:11, 51:1). And again, 'Let thy tender mercies come unto
me, that I may live' (Psa 119:77). Now of this sort of mercies God
has a great many, a multitude to bestow upon his people. And they
are thus mentioned by the word, to cause us to hope in him. And
is not this alluring, is not this enticing to the Israel of God to
hope, when the object of their hope is a God 'very pitiful, and of
tender mercy?' Yea, a God whose tender mercies are great and many.
There are two things that this word tender mercy importeth. 1. The
first is, that sin will put a believer, if he giveth way thereto,
into a very miserable condition. 2. That God would have them hope,
that though sin may have brought any of them into this condition,
the Lord will restore them with much pity and compassion. 'Let
Israel hope in the Lord,' for with the Lord there is mercy, tender
mercy.

1. For the first of these, That sin will put a believer, if he
gives way thereto, into a very miserable condition, and that upon
a double account. (1.) For that it will bring him into fears of
damnation. (2.) In that it will make his soul to be much pained
under those fears.

We will wave the first, and come to the second of these. The pains
that guilt will make, when it wounds the conscience, none knows
but those to whom sin is applied by the Spirit of God, in the law.
Yet all may read of it in the experience of the godly; where this
pain is compared to a wound in the flesh, to fire in the bones, to
the putting of bones out of joint, and the breaking of them asunder
(Psa 38:3,5,7,8, 102:3, 22:14; Lam 1:13, 3:4). He that knows what
wounds and broken bones are, knows them to be painful things. And
he that knows what misery sin will bring the soul into with its
guilt, will conclude the one comes no whit short of the other. But
now he that hath these wounds, and also these broken bones, the
very thoughts of a man that can cure, and of a bonesetter, will
make him afraid, yea, quake for fear; especially if he knows that
though he has skill, he has a hard heart, and fingers that are like
iron. He that handleth a wound, had need have fingers like feathers
or down; to be sure the patient wisheth they were! Tenderness is a
thing of great worth to such; and such men are much inquired after
by such; yea, their tenderness is an invitation to such to seek
after them. And the thing is true in spirituals (Isa 42:3). Wherefore
David cried, as I said before, 'Have mercy upon me, O God! according
unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions'
(Psa 51:1). O handle me tenderly, Lord, handle me tenderly, cried
David. O cure me, I beseech thee, and do it with thy tender mercy.

Now, answerable to this, the Lord is set forth to Israel, as one
with whom is mercy, consequently tender mercy. Let Israel hope in
the Lord, for with the Lord there is tender mercy. God therefore
would have the wounded and bruised, and those whose pains may be
compared to the pains and pangs of broken bones, to hope that he
will restore them with much pity and compassion, or as you have it
before, in pity and tender mercy. See how he promiseth to do it by
the prophet. 'A bruised reed shall he not break; and the smoking
flax shall he not quench' (Isa 42:3). See how tender he is in the
action. 'When he saw him, he had compassion on him, and went to him,
and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on
his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him'
(Luke 10:33-35). Every circumstance is full of tenderness and
compassion. See also how angry he maketh himself with those of his
servants that handle the wounded or diseased without this tenderness;
and how he catcheth them out of their hand, with a purpose to deal
more gently with them himself. 'The diseased,' saith he, 'have
ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed that which was sick;
neither have ye bound up that which was broken; neither have ye
brought again that which was driven away; neither have ye sought
that which was lost; but with force and with cruelty have ye ruled
them; therefore, ye shepherds, hear the words of the Lord: I will
feed my flock, and I will cause them to lie down, saith the Lord
God. I will seek that which was lost, and bring again that which
was driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and
will strengthen that which was sick' (Eze 34:4,7,15,16). Here is
encouragement to hope, even according to the reason urged: 'Let
Israel hope in the Lord; for with the Lord there is mercy,' tender
mercy. Second. As with him is mercy tender, so there is with him
mercy that is GREAT, for with him is great mercy. 'The Lord is
long-suffering, and of great mercy' (Num 14:18). When tenderness
accompanies want of skill, the defect is great; but when tenderness
and great skill meet together, such a surgeon is a brave accomplished
man. Besides, some are more plagued with the sense of the greatness
of their sins than others are; the devil having placed or fixed the
great sting there. These are driven by the greatness of sin into
despairing thoughts, hotter than fire: these have the greatness of
their sin betwixt God and them, like a great mountain; yea, they are
like a cloud that darkeneth the sun and air.[19] This man stands
under Cain's gibbet, and has the halter of Judas, to his own
thinking, fastened about his neck.

And now, cries, he, 'GREAT mercy or NO mercy; for little mercy will
do me no good'; such a poor creature thus expostulateth the case
with God, 'Wilt thou show wonders to the dead? Shall the dead arise
and praise thee?' (Psa 88:10). Lord, I have destroyed myself, can
I live? My sins are more than the sands, can I live? Lord, every
one of them are sins of the first rate, of the biggest size, of the
blackest line, can I live? I never read that expression but once
in all the whole Bible; 'For thy name's sake, O Lord, pardon mine
iniquity, for it is great' (Psa 25:11). Not that there was but one
man in Israel that had committed great iniquities, but because men
that have so done, have rather inclined to despair, than to an
argument so against the wind. If he had said, Pardon, for they are
little, his reason had carried reason in it; but when he saith,
Pardon, for they are great, he seems to stand like a man alone. This
is the common language, 'if our transgressions be upon us, and we
pine away in them, How should we then live?' (Eze 33:10). Or thus,
'Our bones are dried, and our hope is lost, and we are cut off for
our parts' (Eze 37:11). Wherefore to such as these, good wishes,
tender fingers, and compassion, without GREAT mercy, can do
nothing. But behold, O thou man of Israel, thou talkest of great
sins; answerable to this, the Scripture speaks of great mercy; and
thy great sins are but the sins of a man, but these great mercies
are the mercies of a God; yea, and thou art exhorted, even because
there is mercy with him, therefore to trust thy soul with him,
'let Israel trust in the Lord; for with the Lord there is mercy,'
great mercy. This therefore is a truth of singular consolation,
that mercy is with the Lord, that tender mercy is with him, that
great mercy is with him, both TENDER and GREAT. What would man have
more? But,

Third. As great mercy is with the Lord to encourage us to hope,
so this mercy that is great, is RICH. 'God is rich in mercy' (Eph
2:4). There is riches of goodness and riches of grace with him
(Rom 2:4; Eph 1:7). Things may be great in quantity, and little of
value; but the mercy of God is not so. We use to prize small things
when great worth is in them; even a diamond as little as a pea, is
preferred before a pebble, though as big as a camel. Why, here is
rich mercy, sinner; here is mercy that is rich and full of virtue!
a drop of it will cure a kingdom. 'Ah! but how much is there of
it?' says the sinner. O, abundance, abundance! for so saith the
text--'Let us fall now into the hand of the Lord, for his' rich
'mercies are great' (2 Sam 24:14). Some things are so rich, and of
such virtue, that if they do but touch a man, if they do but come
nigh a man, if a man doth but look upon them, they have a present
operation upon him; but the very mentioning of mercy, yea, a very
thought of it, has sometimes had that virtue in it as to cure a
sin-sick soul. Here is virtuous mercy!

Indeed mercy, the best of mercies, are little worth to a self-righteous
man, or a sinner fast asleep; we must not, therefore, make our esteems
of mercy according to the judgment of the secure and heedless man,
but according to the verdict of the Word; nay, though the awakened
sinner, he that roareth for mercy all day long, by reason of the
disquietness of his heart is the likeliest among sinful flesh, or
as likely as another, to set a suitable estimate upon mercy; yet
his verdict is not always to pass in this matter. None can know
the riches of mercy to the full, but he that perfectly knoweth the
evil of sin, the justice of God, all the errors of man, the torments
of hell, and the sorrows that the Lord Jesus underwent, when mercy
made him a reconciler of sinners to God. But this can be known
by none but the God whose mercy it is. This is the pearl of great
price.

The richness of mercy is seen in several things. It can save from
sin, from great sin, from all sin (Titus 3:5; Matt 15:22,28). It
can save a soul from the devil, from all devils (Matt 17:15,18).
It can save a soul from hell, from all hells (Psa 116:3,5,6). It
can hold us up in the midst of all weaknesses (Psa 94:18). It can
deliver from eternal judgment (Rom 9:23). Yea, what is it that we
have, or shall need, that this virtuous mercy cannot do for us:
'Let Israel hope in the Lord: for which the Lord is RICH mercy,'
mercy full of virtue, and that can do great things.

Fourth. As the mercies that are with the Lord are tender, great,
and rich, so there is a MULTITUDE of them, and they are called
'manifold,' there is a multitude of these rich and virtuous mercies
(Psa 69:13; Rev 9:19). By multitude, I understand mercies of every
sort or kind; mercies for this, and mercies for the other malady;
mercies for every sickness, a salve for every sore. Some things
that are rich and very full of virtue, have yet their excellency
extending itself but to one, or two, or three things for help; and
this is their leanness in the midst of their excellencies. But it
is not thus with the mercy of God. Some things that are rich and
virtuous, are yet so only but at certain seasons; for there are
times in which they can do nothing. But it is not so with this
tender, great, and rich mercy of God. There are some things, though
rich, that are sparingly made use of. But it is not so with this
mercy of God. There is a multitude of them; so if one will not
another will. There is a multitude of them; so one or other of
them is always in their season. There is a multitude of them; and
therefore it must not be supposed that God is niggardly as to the
communicating of them.

As they are called a multitude, so they are called mercies
manifold. There is no single flower in God's gospel-garden, they
are all double and treble; there is a wheel within a wheel, a
blessing within a blessing, in all the mercies of God. Manifold; a
man cannot receive one, but he receives many, many folded up, one
within another. For instance,

1. If a man receiveth Christ, who is called God's tender mercy;
why, he shall find in him all the promises, pardons, justifications,
righteousnesses, and redemptions, that are requisite to make him
stand clear before the justice of the law, in the sight of God,
from sin (Luke 1:76-79; 1 Cor 1:30; Eph 4:32; 2 Cor 1:20).

2. If a man receive the Spirit, he shall have as folded up in that,
for this is the first unfolding itself, many, very many mercies (Ezra
1:4). He shall have the graces, the teachings, the sanctifications,
the comforts, and the supports of the Spirit: When he saith in one
place, 'He will give the Spirit,' he calleth that in another place,
'the good things' of God (Luke 11:13; Matt 7:11).

3. If a man receive the mercy of the resurrection of the body,
and God's people shall assuredly receive that in its time, what a
bundle of mercies will be received, as wrapt up in that? He will
receive perfection, immortality, heaven, and glory; and what is
folded up in these things, who can tell?

I name but these three, for many more might be added, to show you
the plenteousness, as well as the virtuousness of the tender, great,
and rich mercy of God. A multitude! There is converting mercy,
there is preserving mercy, there is glorifying mercy: and how many
mercies are folded up in every one of these mercies, none but God
can tell. A multitude! There are mercies for the faithful followers
of Christ, for those of his that backslide from him, and also
for those that suffer for him; and what mercies will by these be
found folded up in their mercies, they will better know when they
come to heaven. A multitude of preventing mercies in afflictions,
in disappointments, in cross providences, there are with God: and
what mercies are folded up in these afflicting mercies, in these
disappointing mercies, and in these merciful cross providences, must
rest in the bosom of him to be revealed, who only is wonderful in
counsel, and excellent in working. A multitude of common mercies;
of every day's mercies, of every night's mercies, of mercies in
relations, of mercies in food and raiment, and of mercies in what
of these things there is; and who can number them? David said, He
daily was loaded with God's benefits. And I believe, if, as we are
bound, we should at all times return God thanks for all particular
mercies, particularly, it would be a burden intolerable, and would
kill us out of hand! (Psa 68:19). And all this is written, that
Israel might hope in the Lord: 'Let Israel hope in the Lord; for
with the Lord there is mercy.'

Fifth. As the mercies that are with the Lord are tender, great,
rich, a multitude, and manifold; so they are mercies that DIMINISH
NOT in the using, but that rather increase in the exercising of
them. Hence it is said, grace aboundeth, and hath abounded unto
many; and that God is able to make all grace abound towards us
(Rom 5:15; 2 Cor 9:8; Eph 1:7,8). The grace of forgiveness I mean,
wherein he hath abounded towards us. Now, to abound, is to flow,
to multiply, to increase, to greaten, to be more and more; and of
this nature is the mercy that is with the Lord; mercy that will abound
and increase in the using. Hence he is said to pardon abundantly,
to pardon and multiply to pardon: and, again, to exercise
loving-kindness; to exercise it, that is, to draw it out to the
length; to make the best advantage and improvement of every grain
and quality of it (Isa 55:7; Jer 9;24). 'The Lord, the Lord God,
merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness
and truth' (Exo 34:6).

Mercy to a man under guilt, and fear of hell-fire, seems as a
little, shrunk-up, or shrivelled thing; there appears no quantity
in it. There is mercy, said Cain, but there is not enough; and he
died under that conceit (Gen 4:13). Nor is it as to judgment and
thought many times much better with the Israel of God. But behold
when God sets mercy to work, it is like the cloud that at first
was but like a man's hand, it increaseth until it hath covered the
face of heaven. Many have found it thus, yea they have found it
thus in their distress (1 Kings 18:41-44). Paul has this expression,
'The grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant,' that is, increased
towards me exceedingly (1 Tim 1:13-15). And this is the cause of
that change of thoughts that is wrought at last in the hearts of
the tempted; at first they doubt, at last they hope; at first they
despair, at last they rejoice; at first they quake, while they
imagine how great their sins are, and how little the grace of God
is; but at last they see such a greatness, such a largeness, such
an abundance of increase, in this multiplying mercy of God, that with
gladness of heart, for their first thoughts, they call themselves
fools, and venture their souls, the next world, and their interest
in it, upon this mercy of God.

I tell you, Sirs, you must not trust your own apprehensions nor
judgments with the mercy of God; you do not know how he can cause
it to abound; that which seems to be short and shrunk up to you, he
can draw out, and cause to abound exceedingly. There is a breadth,
and length, and depth, and height therein, when God will please
to open it; that for the infiniteness can swallow up not only all
thy sins, but all thy thoughts and imaginations, and that can also
drown thee at last. 'Now unto him that is able,' 'as to mercy,' 'to
do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according
to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the church by
Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen!' (Eph
3:20,21). This, therefore, is a wonderful thing, and shall be
wondered at to all eternity; that that river of mercy, that at first
did seem to be but ankle deep, should so rise, and rise, and rise,
that at last it became 'waters to swim in, a river that could not
be passed over!' (Eze 47:3-5). Now all this is written, that Israel
might hope. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord; for with the Lord there
is mercy.'

Sixth. As there are with God mercies, tender, great, rich, a
multitude, and mercy that abounds; so to encourage us to trust in
him, there is mercy to COMPASS US ROUND ABOUT. 'Many sorrows shall
be to the wicked, but he that trusteth in the Lord, mercy shall
compass him about' (Psa 32:10). This is, therefore, the lot of
the Israel of God, that they shall, they trusting in their God, be
compassed with mercy round about. This is mercy to do for us in
this world, that we may arrive safely in that world which is to
come. Another text saith, 'For thou, Lord, wilt bless the righteous;
with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield' (Psa 5:12). As
with a shield. This compassing of them, therefore, is, to the end
they may be defended and guarded from them that seek their hurt.
When Elisha was in danger, by reason of the army of the Syrians,
'behold the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire, round
about him,' to deliver him (2 Kings 6:15-17). Round about on every
side; or as David hath it, 'Thou shalt increase my greatness, and
comfort me on every side' (Psa 71:21). 'I will encamp about mine
house,' saith God, 'because of the army, because of him that passeth
by, and him that returneth' (Zech 9:1).

This, therefore, is the reason why, notwithstanding all our
weaknesses, and also the rage of Satan, we are kept and preserved
in a wicked world; we are compassed round about. Hence, when God
asked Satan concerning holy Job, he answered, 'Hast thou not made
a hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath
on every side?' (Job 1:10). I cannot come at him; thou compassest
him, and keepest me out. By this, then, is that scripture opened,
'Thou art my hiding-place, thou shalt preserve me from trouble,
thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance' (Psa 32:7).
And, indeed, it would be comely, if we, instead of doubting and
despairing, did sing in the ways of the Lord: have we not cause
thus to do, when the Lord is round about us with sword and shield,
watching for us against the enemy, that he may deliver us from
their hand? (Jer 31:12).

This also is the reason why nothing can come at us, but that it
may do us good. If the mercy of God is round about us, about us
on every side; then no evil thing can by any means come at us, but
it must come through this mercy, and so must be seasoned with it,
and must have its deadly poison, by it, taken away. Hence Paul,
understanding this, saith, 'And we know that all things work together
for good to them that love God' (Rom 8:28). But how can that be,
did they not come to us through the very sides of mercy? and how
could they come to us so, since Satan pryeth to wound us deadly in
every, or in some private place, if mercy did not compass us round
about, round about as with a shield? He went round about Job, to
see by what hog-hole he might get at him, that he might smite him
under the fifth rib.[20] But, behold, he found he was hedged out
round about; wherefore he could not come at him but through the
sides of mercy; and, therefore, what he did to him must be for
good. Even thus also shall it be in conclusion with all the wrath
of our enemies, when they have done what they can; by the mercy
of God, we shall be made to stand. 'Why boasteth thou thyself in
mischief,' said David, 'O mighty man? the goodness of God endureth
continually' (Psa 52:1). And that will sanctify to me whatever thou
doest against me! This, therefore, is another singular encouragement
to Israel to hope in the Lord; for that there is with him mercy to
compass us round about.

Here is, I say, room for hope, and for the exercise thereof; when
we feel ourselves after the worst manner assaulted. 'Wherefore
should I fear,' said David, 'in the day of evil, when the iniquity
of my heels shall compass me about?' (Psa 49:5). Wherefore? Why
now there is all the reason in the world to fear the day of evil
is come upon thee, and the iniquity of thy heels doth compass thee
about. The hand of God is upon thee, and thy sins, which are the
cause, stand round about thee, to give in evidence against thee; and
therefore thou must fear. No, saith David, that is not a sufficient
reason; he that trusteth in the Lord, Mercy shall compass him about.
Here is ground also to pray in faith, as David, saying, 'Keep me
as the apple of the eye, hid me under the shadow of thy wings, from
the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who compass me
about' (Psa 17:8,9).

Seventh. As all this tender, great, rich, much abounding mercy,
compasseth us about; so that we may hope in the God of our mercy,
it is said this mercy IS TO FOLLOW US. 'Surely goodness and mercy
shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the
house of the Lord for ever' (Psa 23:6). It shall follow me, go with
me, and be near me, in all the way that I go (Psa 32:8). There are
these six things to be gathered out of this text, for the further
support of our hope.

1. It shall follow us to guide us in the way. I will guide thee
with mine eye, says God, that is, in the way that thou shalt go. The
way of man to the next world, is like the way from Egypt to Canaan,
a way not to be wound out but by the pillar of a cloud by day, and
a flame of fire by night; that is, with the Word and Spirit. 'Thou
shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory'
(Psa 73:24). Thou shalt guide me from the first step to the last
that I shall take in this my pilgrimage: Goodness and mercy shall
follow me.

2. As God in mercy will guide, so by the same he will uphold our
goings in his paths. We are weak, wherefore though the path we go
in were never so plain, yet we are apt to stumble and fall. But
'when I said my foot slippeth, thy mercy, O Lord, held me up' (Psa
94:18). Wherefore we should always turn our hope into prayer, and
say, Lord, 'hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip
not' (Psa 17:5). Be not moved; let mercy follow me.

3. As the God of our mercy has mercy to guide us, and uphold us; so
by the same will he instruct us when we are at a loss, at a stand.
'I led Israel about,' says God, 'I instructed him, and kept him as
the apple of mine eye' (Deut 32:10). I say we are often at a loss;
David said, after all his brave sayings, in Psalm 119, 'I have
gone astray like a lost sheep: seek thy servant' (v 176). Indeed
a Christian is not so often out of the way, as he is at a stand
therein, and knows not what to do. But here also is his mercy as
to that. 'Thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This
is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when
ye turn to the left' (Isa 30:21). Mercy follows for this.

4. Mercy shall follow to carry thee when thou art faint. We have
many fainting and sinking fits as we go. 'He shall gather the lambs
with his arm, and carry them in his bosom,' or upon eagles' wings
(Isa 40:11). He made Israel to ride on the high places of the earth,
and made him to suck honey out of the rock (Deut 32:13).

5. Mercy shall follow us, to take us up when we are fallen, and
to heal us of those wounds that we have caught by our falls. 'The
Lord upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that be bowed
down' (Psa 145:14). And again: 'The Lord openeth the yes of the
blind; the Lord raiseth them that are bowed down; the Lord loveth
the righteous' (Psa 146:8). Or, as we have it in another place, 'The
steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord; and he delighteth in
his way. Though he fall he shall not be utterly cast down; for the
Lord upholdeth him with his hand' (Psa 37:23,24). Here is mercy
for a hoping Israelite; and yet this is not all.

6. Mercy shall follow us to pardon our sins as they are committed.
For though by the act of justification, we are for ever secured
from a state of condemnation; yet as we are children, we need
forgiveness daily, and have need to pray, 'Our Father, forgive us
our trespasses.' Now, that we may have daily forgiveness for our
daily sins and trespasses, mercy and goodness must follow us; or
as Moses has it, 'And he said, If now I have found grace in thy
sight, O Lord! let my Lord, I pray thee, go amongst us, for it is
a stiff-necked people, and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take
us for thine inheritance' (Exo 34:9). Join to this that prayer of
his, which you find in Numbers: 'Now I beseech thee let the power
of my Lord be great, according as thou hast spoken, saying, The
Lord is long-suffering and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity, and
transgression, and by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the
iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth
generation. Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity of this people
according to the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast forgiven
this people from Egypt even until now,' or hitherto (Num 14:17-19).
How many times, think you, did Israel stand in need of pardon, from
Egypt, until they came to Canaan? Even so many times wilt thou need
pardon from the day of thy conversion to the day of death; to the
which God will follow Israel, that he may dwell in the house of
the Lord for ever.

Eighth. As all this tender, great, rich, abounding, compassing mercy,
shall follow Israel to do him good; so shall it do him EVERY GOOD
TURN, in delivering of him from every judgment that by sin he hath
laid himself obnoxious to, with rejoicing. For 'mercy rejoiceth
against judgment' (James 2:13). That is, applying it to the mercy
of God towards his, it rejoiceth in delivering us form the judgments
that we have deserved; yea, it delivereth us from all our woes with
rejoicing. In the margin it is 'glorieth'; it glorieth in doing
this great thing for us. I have thought, considering how often I
have procured judgments and destructions to myself, that God would
be weary of pardoning, or else that he would pardon with grudging.
But the Word said, 'He fainteth not nor is weary' (Isa 40;28). 'I
will rejoice over them to do them good,--with my whole heart, and
with my whole soul' (Jer 32:41). This doing of us good with rejoicing,
this saving of us from deserved judgments with rejoicing, this
getting the victory over our destructions for us, with rejoicing;
O! it is a marvellous thing! 'O sing unto the Lord a new song,
for he hath done marvellous things: his right hand, and his holy
arm hath gotten him the victory'; the victory for us (Psa 98:1).
And as Paul said, 'We are more than conquerors through him' (Rom
8:37); and this he did with triumph and rejoicing (Col 2:15). The
heart is seen oft-times, more in the manner than in the act that
is acted; more in the manner of doing than in doing of the thing.
The wickedness of the heart of Moab was more seen in the manner of
action than in the words that he spake against Israel. 'For since
thou spakest [of] against him thou skippedst for joy' (Jer 48:27).
So Edom rejoiced at the calamity of his brother; he looked on it and
rejoiced: and in his rejoicing appeared the badness of his heart,
and the great spite that he had against his brother Jacob (Oba
10:14).

Now, my brethren, I beseech you consider, that God hath not only
showed you mercy, but hath done it with rejoicing. Mercy doth not
only follow you, but it follows you with rejoicing: yea, it doth
not only prevent your ruin, by our repeated transgressions procured,
but it doth it with rejoicing. Here is the very heart of mercy seen,
in that it rejoiceth against judgment. Like unto this is that in
Zephaniah: 'The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty: he
will save, he will rejoice over thee with joy, he will rest in his
love, he will joy over thee with singing' (Zeph 3:17,18).

There are many things that show with what an heart mercy is of God
extended, as is afore described, to Israel for his salvation; but
this, that it acteth with rejoicing, that it saveth with rejoicing,
and gets the victory over judgment with rejoicing! is a wonderful
one, and one that should be taken notice of by Israel, for his
encouragement to hope. 'Let Israel hope in the Lord, for with him
there is mercy,' tender, great, rich, multiplying mercy, mercy that
compasseth us about, that goeth with us all the way, and mercy that
rejoiceth to overcome every judgment that seeketh our destruction,
as we go toward our Father's house and kingdom!

It is said in the Word, God delighteth in mercy. 'Who is a God like
unto thee that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth by the transgression
of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not his anger for
ever, because he delighteth in mercy' (Micah 7:18). Here then is
a reason of the rejoicing of mercy against judgment. Why, mercy is
God's delight; or, as another hath it, 'Mercy pleaseth thee.' What
a man delights in, that he will set on foot, and that he will seek
to manage, that he will promote, and that he will glory in the
success and prosperity of. Why, the text saith, God delighteth in
mercy: nor do I believe, how odious soever the comparison may seem
to be, that ever man delighteth more in sin, than God hath delighted
in showing mercy. Has man given himself for sin? God has given his
Son for us, that he might show us mercy (John 3:16). Has man lain
at wait for opportunities for sin? God has waited to be gracious,
that he might have mercy upon us (Isa 30:10). Has man, that he might
enjoy his sin, brought himself to a morsel of bread? Why Christ,
Lord of all, that he might make room for mercy, made himself the
poorest man (Luke 9:58; 2 Cor 8:9). Has man, when he has found his
sin, pursued it with all his heart? Why God, when he sets a showing
mercy, shows it with rejoicing, for he delighteth in mercy.

Here also you may see the reason why all God's paths are mercy and
truth to his (Psa 25:10). I have observed that what a man loveth he
will accustom himself unto, whether it be fishing, hunting, or the
like. These are his ways, his course, the paths wherein he spends
his life, and therefore he is seldom found out of one or another
of them. 'Now,' saith David, 'all the paths of the Lord are mercy'
(Psa 25:10). He is never out of them: for wherever he is, still
he is coming towards his Israel in one or other of these paths,
stepping steps of mercy. Hence again it is that you find that at
the end of every judgment there is mercy; and that God in the midst
of this remembers that (Habb 2:3). Yea, judgment is in mercy; and
were it not for that, judgment should never overtake his people
(1 Cor 11:32). Wherefore let Israel hope in the Lord, seeing with
him is all this mercy.

Ninth. Besides all this, the mercy that is with God, and that is
an encouragement to Israel to hope in him, IS EVERLASTING: 'The
mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that
fear him' (Psa 103:17). From everlasting to everlasting; that is
more, more than I said. Well,

1. Then from everlasting; that is, from before the world began; so
then, things that are, and are to be hereafter, are to be managed
according to those measures that God in mercy took for his people
then. Hence it is said, that he has blessed us according as he
chose us in Christ, before the world began; that is, according to
those measures and grants that were by mercy allotted to us then
(Eph 1:4). According to that other saying, 'according to his mercy he
saved us,' that is, according as mercy had allotted for us before
the world began (Titus 3:5). 'According to his own purpose and
grace, which was given us in Christ before the world began' (2 Tim
1:9). This is mercy from everlasting, and is the ground and bottom
of all dispensations that have been, are, or are to come to his
people. And now, though it would be too great a step to a side, to
treat of all those mercies that of necessity will be found to stand
upon that which is called mercy from everlasting, yet it will be
to our purpose, and agreeable to our method, to conclude that mercy
to everlasting stands upon that; even as vocation, justification,
preservation, and glorification, standeth upon our being chosen in
Christ before the foundation of the world (Rom 8:29,30). Here then
is the mercy that is with God and that should encourage Israel to
hope. The mercy that has concerned itself with them, is mercy from
everlasting. Nor may it be thought that a few quarrels of some
brain-sick fellows will put God upon taking new measures for his
people; what foundation has been laid for his, before he laid the
foundation of the world, shall stand; for that it was laid in Christ
by virtue of mercy: that is, from everlasting (Rom 9:11). The old
laws, which are the Magna Charta, the sole basis of the government
of a kingdom, may not be cast away for the pet that is taken by every
little gentleman against them.[21] We have indeed some professors
that take a great pet against that foundation of salvation, that
the mercy that is from everlasting has laid; but since the kingdom,
government, and glory of Christ is wrapped up in it, and since
the calling, justification, perseverance, and glorification of his
elect, which are called his body and fulness, is wrapt up therein,
it may not be laid aside nor despised, nor quarrelled against by
any, without danger of damnation.

Here then is the mercy with which Israel is concerned, and which
is with God as an encouragement to them that should hope, to hope
in him. It is mercy from everlasting; it is mercy of an ancient
date; it is mercy in the root of the thing. For it is from this
mercy in the root of the thing. For it is from this mercy, this
mercy from everlasting, that all, and all those sorts of mercies,
of which we have discoursed before, do flow. It is from this that
Christ the Saviour flows; this is it, from which that tender mercy,
that great mercy, that rich mercy that aboundeth towards us, doth
flow; and so of all the rest. Kind brings forth its kind; know the
tree by his fruit; and God by his mercy in Christ; yea, and know
what God was doing before he made the world, by what he has been
doing ever since. And what has God been doing for and to his church
from the beginning of the world, but extending to, and exercising
loving-kindness and mercy for them? therefore he laid a foundation
for this in mercy from everlasting.

2. But mercy from everlasting is but the beginning, and we
have discoursed of those mercies that we have found in the bowels
of this already, wherefore a word of that which is to everlasting
also. 'From everlasting to everlasting.' Nothing can go beyond
to everlasting; wherefore this, to everlasting, will see an end
of all. The devil will tempt us, sin will assault us, men will
persecute; but can they do it to everlasting? If not, then there is
mercy to come to God's people at last; even when all evils have
done to us what they can. After the prophet had spoken of the
inconceivable blessedness that God hath prepared for them that wait
for him, he drops to present wrath, and the sin of God's people in
this life. This done, he mounts up again to the first, and saith,
'in those is continuance'; that is, the things laid up for us are
everlasting, and therefore 'we shall be saved' (Isa 64:4,5). How
many things since the beginning have assaulted the world to destroy
it, as wars, famines, pestilences, earthquakes, &c., and yet to this
day it abideth. But what is the reason of that? Why, God liveth,
upon whose word, and by whose decree it abideth. 'He hath established
the earth, and it abideth'; it standeth fast, and 'cannot be moved'
(Psa 119:90, 93:1, 96:10). Why, my brethren, mercy liveth, mercy
is everlasting; 'His mercy endureth for ever!' (Psa 136). And
therefore the church of God liveth; and when all her enemies have
done their all, this is the song that the church shall sing over
them: 'They are brought down and fallen, but we are risen, and
stand upright!' (Psa 20:8). Everlasting mercy, with everlasting
arms, are underneath (Deut 33:27).

And as this shows the cause of the life of the church, notwithstanding
her ghostly and bodily enemies, so it showeth the cause of her
deliverance from her repeated sins. As God said of leviathan 'I will
not conceal his parts,' &c. (Job 41:12). So it is very unbecoming
of God's people to conceal their sins and miscarriages, for it
diminisheth this mercy of God. Let therefore sin be acknowledged,
confessed, and not be hid nor dissembled; it is to the glory of
mercy that we confess to God and one another what we are; still
remembering this, but mercy is everlasting!

As this shows the reason of our life, and the continuance of that,
notwithstanding our repeated sins, so it shows the cause of the
receiving [or renewing] of our graces, from so many decays and
sickness. For this mercy will live, last, and outlast, all things
that are corruptible and hurtful unto Israel. Wherefore 'let Israel
hope in the Lord,' for this reason, 'for with the Lord there is
mercy.' 1. Tender mercy for us. 2. Great mercy for us. 3. Rich mercy.
4. Manifold mercy. 5. Abounding mercy towards us. 6. Compassing
mercy wherewith we are surrounded. 7. Mercy to follow us wherever
we go. 8. Mercy that rejoiceth against judgment. And, 9. Mercy
that is from everlasting to everlasting. All these mercies are with
God, to allure, to encourage, and uphold Israel in hope.

[SECOND. What is to be inferred from this reason.]

I come now to the second thing, which is to show what is to be
inferred from this reason. And,

First. This, to be sure, is to be inferred, That Israel, as the
child of God, is a pitiful thing of himself; one that is full of
weaknesses, infirmities, and defects, should we speak nothing of
his transgressions. He that is to be attended with so many mercies,
absolutely necessary mercies, for there is not in these mercies
one that can be spared, must needs be in himself a poor indigent
creature. Should you see a child attended with so many engines to
make him go, as the child of God is attended with mercies to make
him stand, you would say, What an infirm, decrepit, helpless thing
is this![22] Alas! I have here counted up mercies in number nine.
If I had counted up nine hundred and ninety-nine, all had been the
same, for the child of God would not have one to spare. The text
saith, 'The earth, O Lord, is full of thy mercy,' and all little
enough to preserve his Israel (Psa 119:64). Indeed, those that I
have presented the reader with are the chief heads of mercies; or
the head-mercies from which many others flow. But, however, were they
but single mercies, they show with great evidence our deficiency;
but being double, they show it much more.

Should it be said there is such a lord has a son, a poor decrepit
thing; he is forced to wear things to strengthen his ancles, things
to strengthen his knees, things to strengthen his loins, things to
keep up his bowels, things to strengthen his shoulders, his neck,
his hands, fingers; yea, he cannot speak but by the help of an
engine, nor chew his food but by the help of an engine. What would
you say? What would you think? Would you not say such a one is not
worth the keeping, and that his father cannot look for any thing
from him, but that he should live upon high charge and expense, as
long as he liveth; besides all the trouble such an one is like to
be of to others. Why this is the case: Israel is such an one, nay,
a worse. He cannot live without tender mercy, without great mercy,
without rich mercy, without manifold mercy and unless mercy abounds
towards him. He cannot stand if mercy doth not compass him round
about, nor go unless mercy follows him. Yea, if mercy that rejoiceth
against judgment doth not continually flutter over him, the very
moth will eat him up, and the canker will consume him (Job 4:19).
Wherefore it is necessary to the making of Israel live and flourish,
that everlasting mercy should be over his head, and everlasting
mercy under his feet, with all the afore-mentioned mercies, and
more in the bowels of it. But I say doth not this sufficiently show,
had we but eyes to see it, what a sad and deplorable creature the
child of God of himself is? O! this is not believed nor considered
as it should. Vain man would be wise; sinful man would be holy;
and poor, lame, infirm, helpless man, would be strong, and fain
persuade others that he hath a sufficiency of himself. But I say,
if it be so, what need all this mercy? If thou canst go lustily,
what mean thy crutches? No, no, Israel, God's Israel, when awake,
stands astonished at his being surrounded with mercies, and cries
out, 'I am not worthy of the least [I am less than the least] of
all thy mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast showed unto
thy servant' (Gen 32:10).

Second. This also showeth how sorely the enemies of Israel are bent
to seek his destruction. The devil is, by way of eminency, called
the enemy of God's people: 'the devil, your adversary' (1 Peter
5:8). And this, that there are so many mercies employed about us,
and all to bring us to the place which God hath appointed for us,
doth demonstrate it. Should you see a man that was not to go from
door to door, but he must be clad in a coat of mail, must have
a helmet of brass upon is head, and for his life-guard not so few
as a thousand men to wait upon him; would you not say, Surely this
man has store of enemies at hand, surely this man goes continually
in danger of his life? Why, this is the case, enemies lie in wait
for poor Israel in every hole; he can neither eat, drink, wake,
sleep, work, sit still, talk, be silent; worship his God in public
or in private, but he is in danger of being stabbed, or being
destroyed. Hence, as was said before, he is compassed about with
mercy as with a shield (Micah 7:20). And again it is said concerning
these, 'God's truth,' his mercy, 'shall be thy shield and buckler'
(Psa 91:4). And again, 'He is a buckler to all them that trust
in him' (2 Sam 22:31). Yea, David being a man sensible of his own
weakness, and of the rage and power of his enemies, cries out to
his God to take hold of shield and buckler, and to stand up for his
help (Psa 35:2). But what need these things be asserted, promised,
or prayed for? if Israel had no enemies, or none but such, he could,
as we say, make his party good with all. Alas, their cries, their
tears, sighs, watchings, and outcries, at sundry times, make this,
beyond all show of doubt, a truth.

If Solomon used to have about his bed no less than threescore of
the valiantest of Israel, holding swords, and being expert in war,
every one with his sword upon his thigh, because of fear in the
night--and yet these fears were only concerning men--what guard and
safe-guard doth God's poor people need, who are continually, both
night and day, roared upon by the unmerciful fallen angels of
hell! (Can 3:7,8). I will add, if it be but duly considered, all
this guard and safeguard by mercy notwithstanding, how hardly this
people do escape being destroyed for ever, yea, how with hearts
broken, and loins broken, many of them with much difficulty get to
the gates of heaven! it will be easily concluded, that her enemies
are swifter than eagles, stronger than lions; and that they often
overtake her between the straits.

To say nothing of the many thousands that dare not so much as once
think of true religion, because of the power of the enemy which
they behold, when alas! they see nobody but the very scarecrows
which the devil hath set up for I count the persecutor of God's
people but the devil's scarecrow, the old one himself lies quat--yet,
I say, how are they frighted! how are they amazed! What a many of
the enemies of religion have these folks seen today![23] yea, and
they will as soon venture to run the hazard of hell-fire, as to be
engaged by these enemies in this way. Why, God's people are fain to
go through them all, and yet no more able than the other to do it
of themselves. They therefore are girded, compassed, and defended by
this mercy, which is the true cause indeed of their godly perseverance.

Third. A third thing that I infer from these words is, What a loving
God has Israel! 'Truly God is good to Israel. Let the redeemed of
the Lord say so.' A loving God, that should take this care of him,
and bestow so many mercies upon him. Mercies of all sorts, for
all cases, for all manner of relief and help against all manner
of perils. What is man that God should so unweariedly attend upon
him, and visit him every moment? Is he a second God? Is he God's
fellow? Is he of the highest order of the angels? or what is he?
O! he is a flea, a worm, a dead dog, sinful dust and ashes; he comes
up like a flower and is cut down, and what a thing is it that God
should so much as open his eyes upon such a one! (1 Sam 26:20; Job
25:6, 45:2,3). But then, what a thing is it that God should magnify
him, and that he should set his heart upon him! (Job 7:17). Yea,
that he should take him into acquaintance with him, give his angels
to be all ministering spirits for him! Yea, engage his mercy for
him, his tender, great, manifold, and everlasting mercy for him,
to compass him round withal, as with a shield, that nothing might
work his ruin for ever and ever!

It may well be said, 'God is love'! (1 John 4:16). Man may well
say so, 'O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy
endureth for ever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he
hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy' (Psa 107:1-3). If it be
love for a fellow-creature to give a bit of bread, a coat, a cup
of cold water, what shall we call this? when God, the great God,
the former of all things, shall not only give an alms, an alms
to an enemy, but shall rise up, take shield and buckler, and be a
guard, a protection, a deliverer from all evil, until we come into
his heavenly kingdom? This love is such as is not found on earth,
nor to be paralleled among the creatures. None hopes this but one
that is good. Nor does any believe as they should, that God doth
love as these things declare he does. Our heart staggereth at the
greatness of the thing, and who is it that has any reason left in
him, and knows anything of what a wretched thing sin hath made him,
that can without starting so much as hear of all this mercy! But,

Fourth. Another thing that I infer from these words is this, What
ground is here to Israel to hope in the Lord! The Lord is not that
broken reed of Egypt, on which if a man lean, it will go into his
hand and pierce it. God's word is steadfast for ever, even the word
by which we are here exhorted to hope. Nor shall we have cause to
doubt of the cause of the exhortation to such a soul-quieting duty;
for mercy is with the Lord: 'Let Israel rejoice in him that made
him; let the children of Zion be joyful in their king' (Psa 149:2).
For with the Lord there is mercy, wherewith to beautify the meek
with salvation. What sayest thou, child of God? Has sin wounded,
bruised thy soul, and broken thy bones? Why, with the Lord there is
tender mercy. Art thou a sinner of the first rate, of the biggest
size? Why, with the Lord there is great mercy for thee? Have thy
sins corrupted thy wounds, and made them putrefy and stink? Why,
with the Lord there is rich, that is, virtuous[24] mercy for thee.
Art thy sins of diverse sorts? Why, here is a multitude of manifold
mercies for thee. Dost thou see thyself surrounded with enemies?
Why, with the Lord there is mercy to compass thee about withal.
Is the way dangerous in which thou art to go? Surely goodness and
mercy shall follow thee all the days of thy life. Doth iniquity
prevail against thee? The mercy of this Lord aboundeth towards thee.
Doth judgments for thy miscarriages overtake thee; There is with
thy Lord mercy that rejoiceth to deliver thee from those judgments.
What shall I say? There is mercy from everlasting to everlasting
upon thee. What wouldst thou have? There is mercy underneath, mercy
above, and mercy for thee on every side; therefore 'let Israel
hope in the Lord!' I will add, it is the greatest unkindness thou
canst return to the Lord to doubt this mercy notwithstanding. Why,
what wilt thou make of God? Is there no truth nor trust to be put
in him, notwithstanding all that he hath said? O the depravedness
of man's nature! Because he speaketh the truth, therefore we believe
him not! (John 8:45). The odiousness of unbelief is manifest
by this, yea, also the unreasonableness thereof. God is true, his
Word is true; and to help us to hope in him, how many times has he
fulfilled it to others, and that before our eyes? Hope then; it is
good that a man should hope. Hope then; it pleases God that thou
shouldest hope. Hope then to the end, for the grace that is to be
brought unto thee will surely come, with Christ thy Saviour.

Men that have given up themselves to their sins, hope to enjoy
some benefit by them, though the curse of God, and his wrath, is
revealed from heaven against them for it (Rom 1:18). And yet thou
that hast given thyself to God by Christ, art afraid to hope in his
mercy! For shame, hope, and do not thus dishonour thy God, would
thine own soul, and set so bad an example to others. I know thou
hast thy objections in a readiness to cast in my way, and were
they made against doctrine, reason would that some notice should
be taken of them; but since they are made against duty, duty urged
from, and grounded upon, a word which is stedfast for ever, thou
deservest to be blamed, and to be told, that of all sins that ever
thou didst commit, thou now art managing the vilest, while thou art
giving way to, and fortifying of, unbelief and mistrust, against
this exhortation to hope, and against the reason for encouragement
to the duty.

[THIRD. THE AMPLIFICATION OF THE REASON 'TO HOPE IN THE LORD.']

But I shall pass from this to the third thing found in the text,
and that is the AMPLIFICATION of the reason. I told you that there
were in the text these three things, I. An exhortation to the
children of God to hope in the Lord: 'Let Israel hope in the Lord.'
II. A reason to enforce that exhortation, 'For with the Lord there
is mercy.' III. An amplification of that reason, 'And with him is
plenteous redemption.' I have gone through the two first, and shall
now come to this last.

In these last words, which I call the Amplification of the reason,
we have two things. FIRST. A more particular account of the nature
of the mercy propounded for an encouragement to Israel to hope.
SECOND. An account of the sufficiency of it. The nature of the mercy
propounded, is expressed by that word 'redemption.' The sufficiency
of it is expressed by that word 'plenteous.' 'Let Israel hope in the
Lord; for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is plenteous
redemption.'

[FIRST. The nature of the mercy propounded.]

Redemption may be diversely taken, as shall be further showed anon;
but forasmuch as the term here is made mention of indefinitely,
without nominating of this or that part of redemption particularly,
I shall speak to it in the general, with respect at least to the
main heads thereof.

To redeem is to fetch back, by sufficient and suitable means, those
at present in an enthralled, captivated, or an imprisoned condition;
and there are two sorts of this redemption. First, Redemption
by purchase. Second, Redemption by power. Redemption by purchase
is from the cause of captivities. Redemption by power is from the
effects.

First, If we speak of redemption by purchase, then three things
present themselves to our consideration--I. The person redeeming.
II. The nature of the price paid to redeem withal. III. The thing
or state from which this redeemer with this price redeemeth.

[I. The Person redeeming.] The subject of this redemption, or person
redeemed, is Israel, of him we have spoken before. For the person
redeeming, it is Jesus of Nazareth; Jesus that was born at Bethlehem,
at the time, and as the Scriptures relate (Matt 1; Luke 2). Now,
with reference to his person, we have two things to inquire after.
What this person was. How he addressed himself to this work.

1. What this person was. This Jesus was and is the natural and eternal
Son of God Almighty, without beginning or end, from everlasting;
the Creator and Upholder of the world (Prov 8; John 1; Heb 1).

2. How he addressed himself to the work of redeeming, take as follows.
He became true man: for he was conceived through the power of the
Holy Ghost in the womb of a maid, and in the fulness of time brought
forth of her, true, real, natural man; I say, though not in the
worst, yet in the best sense (Luke 2:31-35). Being thus brought
forth without spot or blemish, he began to address himself to the
work. (1.) By works preparatory, and then, (2.) By the act itself.

(1.) The works preparatory were as follow. He prepares himself
a priestly robe, which was his own obediential righteousness; for
without these holy garments he might not adventure to come into
the presence of God to offer his gift (Rom 5:19; Exo 28:40, 40:13).
Before he offered his gift for the people, he was to be himself
sanctified to his office: and that--by blood--by prayers and tears
(1 Peter 1:19). (a.) By blood; for before Aaron was to offer his
sacrifice for the people, he must himself be sprinkled with blood
(Exo 29:19-22). And because Jesus could not be sprinkled with the
blood of beasts, therefore was he sprinkled with that of his own:
not as Aaron was, upon the tip of his ear, and upon the tip of his
toe; but from top to toe, from head to foot, his sweat was blood
(Luke 22:44). So that from his agony in the garden to the place
where he was to lay down the price of our redemption, he went as
consecrated in his own blood. (b.) He offered also his sacrifice
of strong crying and tears, as his drink-offering to God, as a
sacrifice preparatory, not propitiatory, in pursuit of his office;
not to purge his person (Heb 5:5-8). This is the person redeeming,
and this was his preparation to the work.

(2.) The act itself. Now the redemption is often ascribed particularly
to his blood; yet in general, the act of his redeeming of us must
either more remotely or more nearly be reckoned from his whole
suffering for us in the flesh; which suffering I take to begin at
his agony, and was finished when he was raised again from the dead.
By his flesh I understand his whole man, as distinguished from his
Divine nature; and so that word doth comprehend his soul as well
as his body, as by the 53rd of Isaiah appears. His soul after that
manner which was proper to it; and his body after that manner which
was proper to it.

[II. The nature of the price paid to redeem.] His sufferings began
in his soul, some time before his body was touched, by virtue of
which was his bloody sweat in his body. The sorrows of his soul
began at the apprehension of what was coming from God, for our sakes,
upon him; but the bloody sweat of his body was from that union it
had with such a soul. His sufferings were from the hand of God,
not of man; not by constraint, but of his own will (Lev 1:3; John
10:18); and they differ from ours in these six things. 1. His
sufferings were by the rigour of the law; ours according to the
tenor of the gospel (Gal 3:13; Heb 12:10). 2. His sufferings were
from God's hand immediately; ours by and through a Mediator (Isa
53:6; Heb 9:22). 3. God delighted himself in every stroke he gave
him; he doth not willingly grieve nor afflict his people (Isa 53;
Psa 103; Lam 3:33). 4. He suffereth as a common or public person;
we for our own private offences (1 Cor 15:3; Lam 3:39). 5. He
suffered to make amends to justice for the breach of a holy law;
we to receive some small correction, and to be taught to amend our
lives (Heb 9:26; Rom 10:3,4; Deut 8:5; 2 chron 6:27). 6. He was
delivered from the nature of suffering by the merit of his person
and sufferings; we from ours by the mercy of God through Christ
(Acts 2:24; Eph 4:32, 5:2). Redemption, then, by a price, was this;
the blood of Christ, which he willingly suffered to be spilt on
the cross, before the face of God.

[III. The state from which this price redeemeth.] The cause of
this price was our sins; by which we were justly delivered up to
the curse, the devil, death, and hell; and should everlastingly
have so continued, but that this price of redemption was for us
paid. Hence it is said, Christ died for us. Christ died for our
sins. Christ gave himself for our sins. We have redemption through
his blood, the forgiveness of sins. And that we are bought with
this price. Now, in all this Christ respected the holiness of the
law, and the worth of our souls; giving full satisfaction to the
one, for the love that he bare to the other. And this has redeemed
his people from sin and the curse, the cause of our captivity.

Second, But besides this, there is redemption by power, and that
respecteth that, or those things, unto which we become not legally
indebted by our transgression. There was that unto which we became
legally indebted, and that was the justice and holiness of the law
(Gen 2:17). Now from this, because God had said it, for his Word
made it so, there could be no deliverance, but by a reverend and due
respect to its command and demand, and an answer to every whit of
what it would require; for not one tittle, not one jot or tittle of
the law could fail (Matt 5:18). Jesus Christ, therefore, with respect
to the law, that he might redeem us, paid a full and sufficient
price of redemption; but as for these things that hold us captive,
not for any injury we have done to them, but of power, tyranny, or
the like; from them he redeemed us by power (Eph 4). Hence, when
he had made satisfaction or amends for us to the law, he is said
to 'lead captivity captive, to spoil principalities and powers,
and to make a show of them openly' (Col 2). But to take captive,
and to spoil, must be understood of what he did, not to the law, but
to those others of our enemies from which we were to be redeemed,
not by price but by power. And this second part of redemption is
to be considered under a twofold head. 1. That these were overcome
personally, in and by himself, for us. 2. That they shall be overcome
also, in and by his church, through the power of his Spirit.

1. For the first, these were overcome personally, in and by himself
for us; to wit, at his resurrection from the dead. For as by his
death he made amends for our breach of the law, so by his resurrection
he spoiled those other enemies, to wit, death, the devil, and the
grave, &c., unto which we were subjected, not for any offence we
had committed against them, but for our sin against the law; and
men when they have answered to the justice of the law, are by law
and power delivered from the prison. Christ therefore, by power, by
his glorious power, did overcome the devil, hell, sin, and death,
then when he arose and revived from his grave, and so got the victory
over them, in and by himself, for us. For he engaging as a common
or public person for us, did on our behalf what he did, both in
his death and resurrection. So then, as he died for us, he rose
for us; and as by his death he redeemed us from some, so by his
resurrection from other, of our enemies. Only it must be considered,
that this redemption, as to the fulness of it as yet, resides in
his own person only, and is set out to his church as she has need
thereof, and that orderly too. First, that part thereof which
respecteth our redemption from the law; and then that part of it
which respecteth our redemption from those other things. And although
we are made partakers of redemption from the curse of the law in
this life, so far forth as to be justified therefrom; and also as
to the receiving of an earnest while here, of being wholly possessed
of the glory of the next world hereafter; yet we neither are, nor
shall be redeemed from all those things, which yet our head has,
as head, got a complete and eternal victory over, until just before
he shall deliver up the kingdom to the Father, that God may be all
in all; for 'the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death' (1
Cor 15:26). Death, as it has hold upon us, for death as it had hold
on our head, was destroyed, when he rose from the dead, but death,
as we are subject to it, shall not be destroyed until we all and
every one of us shall attain to the resurrection from the dead; a
pledge of which we have by our spiritual resurrection, from a state
of nature to a state of grace (Col 3:1-4). A promise of which we
have in the word of the truth of the gospel; and an assurance of
it we have by the resurrection of Christ from the dead (Eph 4:30;
Luke 20:35; Acts 17:30,31). Wherefore let us hope!

Now, as to redemption from the law, and from those other things from
which we are, and are to be redeemed with power; do but consider
the different language which the Holy Ghost useth, with reference
to our redemption from each.

When it speaketh of our redemption from the just curse of the law,
which we have sufficiently deserved, it is said to be done, not by
destroying, but by fulfilling the law. 'Think not,' says Christ,
'that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets; I am not come
to destroy, but to fulfil. For verily I say unto you, Till heaven
and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from
the law, till all be fulfilled' (Matt 5:17,18). For it became him,
as our Redeemer, to fulfil all, and all manner of righteousness,
by doing and suffering what justly should have been done or borne
of us (Rom 8:3-5; Gal 3:13,14).

But now when our redemption from those other things is made mention
of, the dialect is changed; for then we read, to the end we might
be delivered from them, Christ was to destroy and abolish them (2
Tim 1:10); 'that through death he might destroy him that had the
power of death, that is, the devil,' and so deliver (Heb 2:14).
And again, 'O death, I will be thy plagues! O grace, I will be
thy destruction!' (Hosea 13:14). And again, 'that the body of sin
might be destroyed' (Rom 6:6); and I have the keys of hell and of
death (Rev 1:18). Having thereby sufficiently declared that the
power of it is destroyed as to Israel, who are the people concerned
in this redemption.

2. They shall be overcome by his church through the power of
his Spirit. Now, as was hinted before, the redemption is already
obtained, and that completely, by the person of Christ for us (Heb
9:24), as it is written, 'Having obtained eternal redemption for
us'; yet these enemies, sin, death, the devil, hell, and the grave,
are not so under the feet of his [saints] as he will put them,
and as they shall be in conclusion under the feet of Christ (Heb
2:8,9). I say they are not; wherefore, as the text also concludeth,
this redemption is with the Lord, and under our feet they shall
be by the power of God towards us (2 Cor 13:4). And for this let
Israel hope. The sum then is, God's people have with the Lord
redemption, and redemption in reversion; redemption, and redemption
to come; all which is in the hand of the Lord for us, and of all
we shall be possessed in his time. This is that called plenteous
redemption. 'For with him is plenteous redemption.' A little
therefore to touch upon the redemption that we have in reversion,
or of the redemption yet to come.

(1.) There is yet much sin and many imperfections that cleave to
our persons and to our performances, from which, though we be not
yet in the most full sense delivered, yet this redemption is with
our Lord, and we shall have it in his time; and in the meantime it
is said, It shall not have dominion over us. 'Sin shall not have
dominion over you; for ye are not under the law, but under grace'
(Rom 6:14). We are, by what Christ has done, taken from under the
law, the curse; and must, by what Christ will do, be delivered
from the very being of sin. 'He gave himself for us, that he might
redeem us from all iniquity'; that he might present us to himself
a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle, or any such thing,
but that we should be without blemish (Titus 2:13,14; Eph 5:25,27).
That we are already without the being of sin, none but fools and
madmen will assert; and that we shall never be delivered from it,
none but such men will affirm neither. It remains then, that there
is a redemption for Israel in reversion, and that from the being
of sin. And of this it is that the text also discourseth, and for
which let the godly hope.

(2.) We are not yet quite free from Satan's assaulting of us, though
our Head by himself, and that for us, has got a complete conquest
over him; but the time is coming, and himself knows that it is but
a little while to it, in which he shall forever be bruised under
our feet. Be wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning
evil, and the God of peace shall bruise, tread down Satan under
your feet shortly (Rom 16:20). Some may think that this text will
have a fulfilling in the ruin and downfall of Antichrist; and so
it may; but yet it will never be wholly fulfilled, as long as Satan
shall have any thing to do with one of the children of God. There
is therefore a redemption in reversion for the children of God from
Satan, which they are to hope for, because this redemption is with
the Lord their Head, and that to manage and bring about for them.
For he shall bruise him under their feet in his time.

(3.) There is yet belonging to the church of God a redemption from
what remains of Antichrist, although as yet he is stronger than
we, which I also call a redemption in reversion, for that it is yet
to come, nor shall it be accomplished till the time appointed. In
this redemption, not only saints, but truths will have a share; yea,
and many also of the men that belong not to the kingdom of Christ
and of God. This redemption God's people are also to hope for,
for it is with their Lord, and he has promised it to them, as the
Scripture doth plentifully declare.

(4.) There is yet a redemption to come, which is called the
redemption of our body (Rom 8:23). Of this redemption we have both
the earnest and the seal, to wit, the Spirit of God (Eph 1:14,
4:30). And because the time to it is long, therefore we are to wait
for it; and because it will be that upon which all our blessedness
will be let out to us, and we also let in to it, therefore we
should be comforted at all the signs of the near approach thereof;
'then,' saith Christ, 'look up and lift up your heads' (Luke
21:28). The bodies of saints are called the purchased possession;
possession, because the whole of all that shall be saved shall be
for a temple or house for God to dwell in, in the heavens. A purchased
possession, because the body, as well as the soul, is bought with
the price of blood (1 Cor 6:14-20). But what then doth he mean by
the redemption of this purchased possession? I answer, he meaneth
the raising it up from the dead; 'I will ransom them from the
power of the grave, I will redeem them from death' (Hosea 13:14).
And then shall be brought to pass that saying that is written,
'Death is swallowed up in victory'; that saying, that is this, and
that in Isaiah, for they speak both the selfsame thing (1 Cor 15;
Isa 25:8).

And this was signified by Moses, where he speaks of the year of
jubilee, and of the redemption of the house that was sold in Israel,
how of that year it should return to the owner (Lev 25). Our bodies
of right are God's, but sin still dwells in them; we have also sold
and forfeited them to death and the grave, and so they will abide;
but at the judgment day, that blessed jubilee, God will take our
body, which originally is his, and will deliver it from the bondage
of corruption, unto which, by our souls, through sin, it has been
subjected; he will take it, I say, because it is his, both by
creation and redemption, and will bring it to that perfect freedom
that is only to be found in immortality and eternal life. And for
this should Israel hope! From what hath been said to this first
thing, it appears that the mercy that is with God for his people,
as it is in general what has been described before, so it is redeeming
mercy, or mercy that has with it the virtue of redemption; of the
advantageousness of this mercy, we will further discourse by and
by, but now we will look into the second thing, that from this
amplification of the reason was propounded to be spoken to, to wit,

[SECOND. The sufficiency of this redemption.]

An account of the sufficiency of this redemption. 'Let Israel hope
in the Lord; for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is
plenteous redemption.' The sufficiency or plenteousness of it may
be spoken to, as it respecteth the many difficulties and dangers
that by sin we have brought ourselves into; or as it respecteth
the superabundant worth that is found therein, let the dangers
attending us be what they will, though we should not be acquainted
with the half or the hundredth part thereof.

To speak to it as it respecteth those particular difficulties
and dangers that by sin we have brought ourselves unto; and that,
First. By showing the suitableness of it. Second. By showing the
sufficiency of the suitableness thereof.

First. The suitableness of it lieth in the fit application thereof
to all the parts of thraldom and bondage. Have we sinned? Christ
had our sins laid upon his back; yea, of God was made, that is,
reputed, sin for us (Isa 53; 2 Cor 5:21). Were we under the curse
of the law by reason of sin? Christ was made under the law, and
bare the curse thereof to redeem (Gal 4:4, 3:13; Rom 3:24). Had
sin set us at an indefinite distance from God? Christ has become,
by the price of his redeeming blood, a reconciler of man to God
again (Col 1:20). Were we by sin subject to death? Christ died the
death to set us free therefrom (Rom 6:23). Had our sins betrayed
us into and under Satan's slavery? Christ has spoiled and destroyed
this work, and made us free citizens of heaven (Acts 26:18; 2 Tim
2:26; Heb 2:14; Eph 2:19). Thus was our Redeemer made, as to those
things, a suitable recoverer, taking all and missing nothing that
stood in the way of our happiness; according to that a little below
the text, 'And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities,'
that is, from them, together with their evil fruits.

Second. Now as to the sufficiency that was in this suitableness,
that is declared by his resurrection, by his ascension, by his
exaltation to the right hand of God; that is also declared by God's
putting all things under his feet, and by giving of him to be head
over all things for his redeemed's sake. It is also further declared
in that God now threateneth none but those that refuse to take
Jesus for their Saviour, and for that he is resolved to make his
foes his footstool. What are more natural consequences flowing
from anything, than that by these things is the sufficiency of the
suitableness of redemption by Christ proved? For all these things
followed Christ, for, or because he humbled himself to the death
of the cross, that he might become a Redeemer; therefore God raised
him up, took him to his throne, and gave him glory, that your faith
and hope might be in God by him (Phil 2).

But alas! what need we stand to prove the sun is light, the fire
hot, the water wet? What was done by him was done by God, for he
was true God; and what comparison can there be betwixt God and the
creature, betwixt the worth of God's acts, and the merit of the
sin of poor man! And can death, or sin, or the grave hold us, when
God saith, 'Give up?' Yea, where is that, or he, that shall call
into question the superabounding sufficiency that is in the merit
of Christ, when God continueth to discharge, day by day, yea,
hourly, and every moment, sinners from their sin, and death, and
hell, for the sake of the redemption that is obtained for us by
Christ?

God be thanked here is plenty; but no want of anything! Enough and
to spare! It will be with the merit of Christ, even at the end of
the world, as it was with the five loaves and two fishes, after
the five thousand men, besides women and children, had sufficiently
eaten thereof. There was, to the view of all at last, more than
showed itself at fist. At first there was but five loaves and two
fishes, which a lad carried. At last there were twelve baskets
full, the weight of which, I suppose, not the strongest man could
bear away. Nay, I am persuaded, that at the end of the world, when
the damned shall see what a sufficiency there is left of merit
in Christ, besides what was bestowed upon them that were saved by
him, they will run mad for anguish of heart to think what fools
they were not to come to him, and trust in him that they might
be saved, as their fellow-sinners did. But this is revealed that
Israel, that the godly may hope and expect. Let Israel therefore
hope in the Lord, for with him is plenteous redemption.

[Amplifying reasons as a conclusion of the whole.]

Now as this last clause, as I termed it, is the amplification of
the reason going before; so itself yieldeth amplifying reasons as
a conclusion of the whole. For,

First. Add redemption unto mercy, and then things still are
heightened and made greater. And it must, because the text adds
it, and because both the nature of God, the holiness of his law,
and the present state of the sinner that is to be saved, requireth
that it should be so. God is justice as well as mercy; the law is
holy and just; that man that is to be saved is not only a sinner,
but polluted. Now, then, that mercy and justice may meet and kiss
in the salvation of the sinner, there must be a redemption; that the
sinner may be saved, and the law retain its sanction and authority,
there must be a redemption; that the sinner may be purged as well
as pardoned, there must be a redemption. And, I say, as there must,
so there is: 'For with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is
plenteous redemption.' Mercy is the original, the cause, and the
manager of our redemption. Redemption is the manifestation, and
the completing of that mercy. If there had been no mercy, there
had been no redemption. Mercy had been defective as to us, or must
have offered violence to the law and justice of God, and have saved
us contrary to that word, 'In the day thou eatest thou shalt die,'
and 'Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things written
in the book of the law to do them.' But now, redemption coming in
by mercy, the sin is done away, and the sinner saved, in a way of
righteousness.

Second. By law as well as grace; that is, in a way of justice as
well as in a way of mercy. Hence it saith we are 'justified freely
by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus' (Rom
3:24). Through the redemption that is in Jesus Christ, whom God
hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, and
so to show the world the equity of his proceeding with sinners in
the saving of their souls. As if God should say to all those who
stumble at the salvation of sinners by grace, Behold, I act according
to law and justice. For of grace I save them through a redemption,
and therefore am faithful and just to my law, as well as free
and liberal of my mercy. Wherefore thus I declare I am righteous,
faithful, and just in passing over or remitting of sin. Nay, the
matter so standeth now betwixt me and the sinful world, that I
could not be just if I did not justify him that hath faith in the
blood of Jesus, since by that blood my justice is appeased for all
that this or that sinner has done against my law!

This is a way that God, nor any child of his, need be ashamed of
before any that shall call in question the legality and justice of
this procedure. For why may not God be merciful, and why may not
God be just? And since he can be both merciful and just in the
salvation of sinners, why may he not also save them from death
and hell? Christ is God's salvation, and to show that he is not
ashamed of him, he hath presented him, and the way of redemption
by him, before the face of all people (Luke 2:30-32). Nor is the
Son, who is become, with respect to the act of redemption, the
author of eternal salvation, ashamed of this his doings. 'I gave
my back to the smiters,' saith he, 'and my cheeks to them that
plucked off the hair; I hid not my face from shame and smiting'
(Isa 50:6). This he speaks to show what were some of his sufferings
when he engaged in the work of our redemption, and how heartily he
did bear and go through them. 'For,' says he, 'the Lord God will
help me,' that is, justify me in it, 'therefore shall I not be
confounded, therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know
that I shall not be ashamed' (v 7). And if God, and his Son Jesus
Christ, are neither of them ashamed to own this way of salvation,
why should the sinners concerned thereabout be afraid thereupon to
venture their soul? I know, saith he, 'I shall not be ashamed'; I
shall not, that is, when all things come to light, and everything
shall appear above board; when the heart and soul of this undertaking
of mine shall be proclaimed upon the house-tops, I know I shall
not be ashamed.

It was also upon this account that Paul said he was not ashamed of
the gospel (Rom 1). For he knew that it was a declaration of the
highest act of wisdom that ever God did spread before the face of
the sons of men. And of what wisdom is the gospel a declaration
but of that of forgiveness of sins by grace, through the redemption
that is by the blood of Jesus Christ? 'In whom we have redemption
through his blood,' even 'the forgiveness of sins, according to
the riches of his grace, wherein he hath abounded toward us in all
wisdom and prudence' (Eph 1:7,8).

And as Paul speaketh here as a minister, so he speaketh after the
same manner also as he is a believer, saying, 'I am not ashamed'
of this gospel, 'for I know whom I have believed,' or trusted with
my soul, 'and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I
have committed unto him against that day' (2 Tim 1:11,12). Wherefore
seeing that mercy is not presented to us alone, or singly, but as
accompanying and concurring with redemption; it is manifest enough
that mercy standeth not above, and consequently that it saveth
none but in, by, and through a Redeemer. He that believeth not in
Christ shall be damned. But what needs that, if mercy could save
the soul without the redemption that is by him? If any say, Christ
is the mercy of God to us. True, if you count him a Redeemer, a
worker out of a redemption for us by his death and blood upon the
cross. But otherwise he is none; I mean, if you make him a lawgiver,
and a Saviour, only as he has set an example to us to get to heaven
by doing commandments, or by treading in his steps. Yea, though you
say his commandment is that we believe in him: for, take the work
of redemption by his blood from the curse, out of his hand, and then
what concerning him is left from me to believe, but, as was said
before, that he is a lawgiver, and as such, at best, but a pattern
to us to get to heaven, as here? And whoso counteth him as such,
is so far off from counting of Christ the mercy of God to us, that
they make him a contradictor of mercy, both in the fountain and
all the streams of it. For to propound life eternal to us, through
the observation of laws, is to set before us that which contradicteth
grace and mercy, let the work be what it will; nor will it help at
all to say, that they that do the law of Christ, or that take him
for their law and example, shall be sure of mercy to pass by their
shortness of attaining to the perfection of what is set before them.
For all this might have been done, and not one drop of blood spilt
for the redemption of man. Besides, this makes Christ's death, as a
Redeemer, as an act unadvisedly undertaken; for what need he have
died, if his doctrine and example had been sufficient, through
that which they call mercy, to have brought the soul to glory? 'If
righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain' (Gal
2:21). I will add, put man's righteousness, God's mercy, and Christ's
redemption, all together, and they will not save a man; though the
last two alone will sufficiently do it: but this third is a piece
when put to that, does, instead of mending, make the rent worse.
Besides, since man's righteousness cannot be joined in justification
with God's mercy and Christ's redemption, but through a disbelief
of the sufficiency of them, should it be admitted as a cause, though
but the least cause thereof, what would follow, but to make that
cursed sin of unbelief a good inventor, and a necessary worker in
the manner of the justification of a sinner? For, I say, unbelief
is the cause of this hodge-podge in any; and the effects of it are
showed in the 9th chapter of the epistle of Paul to the Romans, at
the latter end thereof (vv 31-35).

And there are three things that follow upon that opinion that denieth
the absolute necessity of the shedding of the blood of Christ for
the redemption of man, that mercy might be let out to him.

1. It followeth from thence, that there is no such attribute
as absolute justice in God; justice to stand to his word, and to
vindicate every tittle of his law. For let but this be granted, and
the death of Christ must be brought in, or by justice the floodgate
of mercy still be shut against sinful man; or that God must have
mercy upon man, with the breach of his Word.

2. It also followeth from the premises, that Christ's death was of
pleasure only, and not of necessity also; contrary to the Scripture,
that makes his death the effect of both; of pleasure, to show
how willing God the Father was that Christ should die for man: of
necessity, to show that man could not be saved without it; of pleasure,
to show how justice did deal with him for our sin; of necessity,
to show that mercy could not be communicated to us without it (Isa
53:10; Matt 26:39; Acts 17:3).

3. There also followeth therefrom, that by the blood of Christ we
have not redemption from law, and justice, as to the condemning
part of both, but that rather this title is given to it for honour
and glory, to dignify it; as the name of God is also given to him:
for they that affirm the one, are bold to affirm the other. For
as by them is concluded, that there is no necessity why the blood
of Christ should be counted the absolutely necessary price of our
redemption from the curse of the law and severity of justice; so by
them it is concluded, that it is not necessary to hold that Christ
the Redeemer is naturally and co-eternally God, as the Father. But
'let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy,
and with him is plenteous redemption.'

Third. Must there be redemption by blood added to mercy, if the
soul be saved? This shows us what an horrible thing the sin of man
is. Sin, as to the nature of it, is little known in the world. O!
it sticks so fast to us, as not to be severed from us by all the
mercy of God: do but exclude redemption by the blood of Christ. I
will say it over again. All the mercy of God cannot save a sinner,
without respect to redemption from the curse of the law, by the death
and blood of Christ. 'Without shedding of blood is no remission'
(Heb 9:22). No remission, no pardon, or passing by of the least
transgression, without it. Tears! Christ's tears will not do it.
Prayers! Christ's prayers will not do it. An holy life! the holy
life that Christ lived, will not do it, as severed from his death
and blood. The word redemption, therefore, must be well understood,
and close stuck to, and must not be allowed, as properly spoken,
when we talk of deliverance from sin, the law, and God's curse,
unless it be applied particularly to the death and blood of Christ
(Eph 1:7). We have redemption through his blood (Rev 1:5). 'Christ
hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for
us; for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree'
(Gal 3:13). He has redeemed us to God by his blood. 'For thou wast
slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood' (Rev 5:9). This is
the redemption that is joined with mercy, yea, that is the fruit
thereof; and it is that without which sin cannot be removed out
of the sight of God. Moses, that was a better preacher of the law,
and the sufficiency of the righteousness thereof, than any now
can pretend to be, yet he full well declared by all his bloody
sacrifices, that the blood and death of Jesus Christ is of absolute
necessity for the redemption of the soul. Besides, he tells us that
the man that should flee to the city of refuge, from the avenger
of blood, should not be at liberty from the law, unless he kept
himself close in that city until the death of the high-priest. Mark
the words, 'Ye shall take no satisfaction for him that is fled to
the city of his refuge, that he should come again to dwell in the
land, until the death of the' high 'priest' (Num 35:32). Wherefore,
Christian man, know thou thy sin in the nature of it and persuade
thyself, that the removing of it from before the face of God is by
no less means than the death and blood of Christ. But it is a poor
shift that the enemies of the truth are put to, when, to defend
their errors, they are forced to diminish sin, and to enlarge the
borders of their fig-leaf garments, and to deny or cast away, as
much as in them lies, one of the attributes, the justice of God.
Indeed they will say they abhor to do thus, and all erroneous
persons will put the best face they can upon their bad matters;
but the natural consequences of things amount to it; nor can they,
when men stick close to their sides, avoid the charge.

Fourth. Then here you see the reason of that free course that mercy
hath among the sons of men, and why it doth, as has been showed
before what it doth. Why justice is content. Blood hath answered
the demand of justice. The law hath nothing to object against his
salvation that believeth in Jesus Christ. Blood has set the door
open for us with boldness to go to God for mercy, and for God to
come with his abundant grace to us. We have 'boldness, brethren, to
enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living
way, which he hath consecrated for us through the vail, that is to
say, his flesh' (Heb 10:19,20). This is the way that Moses desired
to find, when God so largely spake to him of his mercy. 'Thou hast
said,' says Moses to God, 'I know thee by name, and thou hast also
found grace in my sight. Now, therefore, I pray thee, if I have found
grace in thy sight, show me now thy way that I may know thee,' &c.
(Exo 33:12,13). What if it should be applied thus? thou now talkest
of mercy, but in thy words to us from the Mount, thou spakest fire
and justice; and since thou hast delivered us to holy a law, and
are resolved that the least tittle thereof shall by no means fall
to the ground; by what means is it that mercy should come unto
us? Well, saith God, I will show thee my way, I will put thee in a
clift of the rock, which was a figure of Christ, for Christ says,
'I am the way' (Exo 34; John 14:6). This done, he proclaimed his
name, and showed him how he could be gracious, and gave him the
sign of his being merciful, a promise that his presence should go
with him. The breaking then of the body of Jesus was, the renting
of the vail, that out of which came blood, that the way to God might
be living; and not death, or sword, or flame, to the poor children
of men. Out hence therefore bubbleth continually the tender mercy,
the great mercy, the rich mercy, the abundant mercy, the multiplying
mercy, and every other mercy of God to us for our present and
everlasting good.

Not that God was sparing of his mercy, and would not part with it
unless paid for it; for this way of redemption by blood was his
contrivance, the fruit of his wisdom (Eph 1:8). So then, God was
big with mercy for a sinful world; but to be continually extending
of mercy, since sin and justice, because of the sanction of the
law, lay in the way as a turning flaming sword, there did lie the
work (Gen 3:24); so it was concluded, that mercy might, in a way
of justice, be let out to sinners; Christ, the Son of God, should
die for the sin of man. By which means the outcries of the law
and justice against us for our sins did cease, and mercy flowed
from heaven like the waters of Noah, until it became a sea (Micah
7:18,19).

By redemption by blood, therefore, is this great mystery--That a
just God can save that man that has broken that law, that God has
said he will inflict the penalty for the breach thereof upon, and
do his justice no wrong--expounded; not by a relaxation of the
punishment, as the doltish wisdom of this world imagines; but by
an inflicting of the exactest justice upon that nature that has
offended. If the question be asked, How a just God can save that
man from death, that by sin has put himself under the sentence of
it? any fool can answer, 'By a pardon.' And if it be asked, But
what will become of the threatening wherewith he threatened the
offender? He that knows no mysteries can say, Why, man must repent
of his sin, and God of his threatening. But if it be asked, How
God can execute his threatening to the utmost, and yet deliver the
sinner by his mercy from it; the sinner that has deserved it, and
yet be just to his law, faithful to his law, and one that will
stand by every tittle of his law? this, to expound, is to high for
a fool; therefore these men are for despising of mysteries, and
for counting of mysteries in the gospel, follies.

But this key of heaven is no where but in the Word of the Spirit;
it is not seen in the law, nor in the reason or righteousness of the
world. To punish 'the just for the unjust,' and to make him 'to be
sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness
of God in him,' seems unreasonable; so cross to the wisdom of man
are the wards of this lock (1 Peter 3:18; 2 Cor 5:21). Wherefore
usually, when they come at this doctrine, they belch out their
frumps, their taunts, their scoffs, and their scorns against it;
and in opposition thereto, comment, exalt, cry up, and set on high,
Socinianism, Mahometanism, man's ragged righteousness, or anything.
But we will pass these things.

Fifth. The knowledge of redemption, and the faith of redemption,
is the only means of settling, composing, and upholding the soul
of the thoroughly awakened, in the hope of enjoying a portion in
mercy for ever. What senseless, secure, besotted, and deluded men,
conclude of themselves, and of the means of future happiness, is
one thing; and what the thoroughly awakened soul concludes upon,
is another. And I say, one thoroughly awakened about the nature of
God, the nature of sin, and the worth of the soul, will find but
little ease of mind, notwithstanding notions of mercy, until he
comes and sees that he must be saved by mercy and justice both; and
that to be sure he shall never do, until he is taught that by the
blood of Christ the law is, as to the curse that is in it against
the sinner, taken out of the way (Col 2).

These things, sin and justice, are too great to be played with by
him that shall see them in the light of the law, and that shall
feel them in their terror upon a trembling conscience. But when the
soul shall see that a propitiation is made to justice by blood,
then, and not till then, it sees sin taken away: and when it sees, by
this means, sin taken away, then it can behold to hope in the mercy
of God. Yea, and it will be as hard to wring off him that is settled
here, from this belief to another, as it would be to persuade him
that stands upon sound ground to venture his life upon a shaking
bottomless quag. O! It is a pleasant thing for the wounded conscience
to taste the sweetness of redeeming blood! (John 6:51-56). This is
like the best wine that goes down sweetly; this carries with the
last of it the very tang[25] of eternal life! (Heb 9:14). And know
that dead works, or works of death, will abide in the conscience,
notwithstanding all talk and notions of mercy, until that be purged
with blood applied thereto, by the Spirit and faith. This is one
of the three that abide to witness on earth, that 'God hath given
us eternal life, and that this life is in his Son'; because he died
for us, and rose again (1 John 5:8-11).

This, therefore, is that that will establish a man with that peace
that shall not be shaken, because by this such an one seeth the
justice of God is quieted. For peace is made by the blood of the
cross; peace with God for sinners (Col 1:20). Yea, God himself, by
the blood of the cross, has made it, that by him, Christ, he might
reconcile to himself all things, whether they be things on earth,
or things in heaven. Nor will a man that is truly spiritually wise,
rest till he comes where God towards man doth rest; but that can
be only there, where such means are offered for the taking away of
sin, that are of a sweet-smelling savour to God. Now this is the
offering that Christ offered, to wit, himself; for Christ loved
us, and hath given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to
God, for a sweet-smelling savour (Eph 5:2). Therefore it is by it,
the body of his flesh, through death, that we are presented holy,
unblameable, and unreproveable in his sight (Col 1:21). Wherefore
it must be true which was said before, to wit, That the knowledge
of redemption, and the faith of redemption, is the only means of
settling, composing, and upholding of the soul of the thoroughly
awakened, in the hope of enjoying a portion in mercy for ever. He
that hath the Son of God, hath the Father, hath life; because with
him is the means of peace with the Father, and so of eternal life
(1 John 2:23). But then, to have the Son, is to believe on him, and
on the Father through him (1 John 5:10-12). On him, that he is the
Saviour by his blood; and on the Father through him, as believing
that he, for his Son's sufferings, is pacified with us, and of his
grace hath forgiven us, through him, all trespasses (2 John 9; Eph
4:32).

Sixth. The knowledge and faith of this redemption fortifieth the
Christian against temptations. We that do believe, know what it is
to be assaulted by the devil, and to have knotty objections cast
into our minds by him. We also know what advantage the vile sin
of unbelief will get upon us, if our knowledge and faith in this
redemption be in the least, below the common faith of saints,
defective. If we talk of mercy, he can talk of justice; if we talk
of grace, he can talk of the law. And all his words, when God will
suffer it, we shall find as sharp, and subject to stick in our
minds, as bearded arrows are to stick in flesh. Besides, he can
and doth, and that often, work in our fancies and imaginations such
apprehensions of God, that he shall seem to be to us one that cannot
abide us, one that hates us, and that lieth in wait to destroy us.
And now, if any body speaks to us of mercy, we think we might hope
in that, had we nothing to trouble us but the guilt of actual sins.
But we see our nature as full of the filth of sin, as the egg is of
meat, or the toad of poison: which filth vilely recoileth against
the commandments, flieth in the face of God, and continueth all
his judgments.[26] This is felt, this is seen by the sinner, who
cannot help it; nor can he be brought to that consideration as to
say, 'It is no more I' (Rom 7). Now, what shall this man do? Shall
he look to the commandment? There is death? Shall he look to God?
There is justice! Shall he look to himself? There is sin out of
measure! Let him look, then, to one as dying, to the 'lamb as it
had been slain,' and there let him see himself by this Lamb, as
cursed, and a dying of a cursed death for this sin that doth so
fright and so distress the soul (Rev 5:6). Then let him turn again,
and behold this Lamb alive and well, and highly exalted by this
God, that but just before laid the curse of the law upon him; but
let him be sure to reckon that he has died for his sins by the
person of Christ, and it will follow that this man is now acquitted,
because Christ is still alive. Say I these things as a man? Saith
not the gospel the very same? 1. As to Christ's dying for us; as
also that we are dead to the law by the body of Christ (Rom 6:6;
7). 2. And that we should so reckon as to this matter, because that
God has transferred our sin from us to him.

1. Did not Christ die for us; and dying for us, are we not become
dead to the law by the death of his body? or will the law slay both
him and us, and that for the same transgression? (Rom 7:1,2). If
this be concluded in the affirmative, what follows but that Christ,
though he undertook, came short in doing for us? But he was raised
up from the dead, and believing marrieth us to him as risen, and
that stops the mouth of all. I am crucified with Christ, our old
man was crucified with him, and we are become dead to the law by
the body of Christ (Rom 5:3,4). What then?

2. Why, reckon yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive
unto God through Jesus Christ. Ay, but says the soul, 'How can I
reckon thus, when sin is yet strong in me?' Answ. Read the words
again, He saith not, Reckon yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin,
in yourselves; but dead unto it through Jesus Christ. Not alive
unto God in yourselves, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ.
For Christ in his death and resurrection representeth me. As I
died by him, I arose again by him, and live through the faith of
the gospel in the presence of God by him. This must in the first
place be allowed and believed, or no true peace can come near
the soul, nor the soul be prepared to assoil the assaults of the
adversary. Let therefore thy faith, if thou wouldst be a warrior,
O thou faint-hearted Christian, be well instructed in this! Then
will thy faith do thee a twofold kindness. 1. It will conform thee
to the death and resurrection of Christ. And, 2. It will give thee
advantage, when thou seest sin strong in thyself, yet to conclude
that by Christ thou art dead thereto, and by him alive therefrom.
Nor can there but two objections be made against this. The first
is to question whether any are said to die and rise, by the death
and resurrection of Christ? or if it so may be said; yet whether
thou art one of them? To the first the scripture is full. To the
second, thy faith must be strong: for let go faith here, and all
falls flat to the ground, I mean as to comfort and consolation.
Christ died for us, or in our stead; therefore, by the Word of God,
I am allowed so to reckon. Christ rose and revived, though he died
for me; therefore I rose and revived by Christ: unless any does
hold, that though he died in a common, yet he arose as considered
but in a single capacity. Now, then, if Satan comes and tells me
of my sins, I answer, 'Christ has taken them upon himself.' If he
comes and tells me of the death that is due to me for sin, by the
curse of the holy law, I answer, I have already undergone that by
Christ. If he asks me, How I know that the law will not lay hold
of me also? I answer, Because Christ is risen from the dead. If he
asks me, By what authority I take upon me thus to reason? I tell
him, By the authority and allowance of the holy and most blessed
gospel, which saith, He 'was delivered for our offences, and
was raised again for our justification' (Rom 4). And to encourage
thee thus to believe, and thus to hold, when thou art in an hour
of temptation, this is the way to see mercy stand and smile upon
thee; for mercy will smile upon him that shall thus believe (2
Cor 3:16-18). This is the way to put faith and hope both to work
against the devil; and to do this is very pleasing to God. This
the way to make that hell-bound retreat and leave off to assault
(James 4:7; 1 Peter 5:9). And this is the way to find an answer
to many scriptures, with which else thou wilt not know what to do,
as with many of the types and shadows; yea, and with the moral law
itself.

Besides, thus believing setteth thy soul against the fear of death,
and judgment to come; for if Christ be raised from the dead who
died for our sins; and if Christ who died for our sins is entered
into glory: I say again, if Christ who died for our sins has purchased
us to himself, and is purposed that the fruit of this his purchase
shall be, that we may behold his face in glory; then, cast off
slavish fear of death and judgment: for Christ being raised from
the dead, dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him!

Seventh. The knowledge and faith of this redemption prepareth man
to a holy life. By a holy life, I mean a life according to the
moral law, flowing from a spirit of thankfulness to God for giving
of his Son to be my Redeemer. This I call a holy life, because it
is according to the rule of holiness, the law, and this I call a
holy life, because it floweth from such a principle as giveth to
God the heart, and life, for the gift bestowed on us. What pretences
soever there are to holiness, if it floweth not from thankfulness
for mercy received, it floweth from a wrong principle, and so cannot
be good. Hence, men were required of old, to serve the Lord with
joyfulness, 'for the abundance of all things'; and threatened, if
they did not, that 'they should serve their enemies in hunger and
in thirst, and in nakedness, and in the want of all things' (Deut
28:47,48). But then, though there are many mercies that lay an
obligation upon men to be holy, yet he that shall want the obligation
that is begotten by the faith of redeeming mercy, wanteth the main
principle of true holiness: nor will any other be found sufficiently
to sanctify the heart to the causing of it to produce such a life;
nor can such holiness be accepted, because it comes not forth
in the name of Christ. That that obliged David was forgiving and
redeeming mercy; and that that obliged Paul was the love that Christ
showed to him, in dying for his sins, and in rising from the dead
(Psa 103:1-5; 2 Cor 5:14,15). Paul also beseecheth the Romans, by
the redeeming, justifying, preserving, and electing mercy of God,
that they present their body 'a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable
to God; which is,' saith he, 'your reasonable service' (Rom 12:1).
For we must be holy and without blame before him in love (Eph 4:1).

Hence, all along, they that are exhorted to holiness in the New
Testament, are exhorted to it upon the supposition of the benefit
of redemption which they have received by Jesus Christ. 'Walk
in love as Christ also hath loved us' (Eph 5:2). 'If there be any
consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship
of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, fulfil ye my joy, that
ye be like minded, having the same love,' &c. (Phil 2:1,2). 'If
ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above,
where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection
on things above, not on things on the earth. For ye are dead, and
your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life,
shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Mortify
therefore your members which are upon the earth,' &c. (Col 3:1-5).
'Wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile, and hypocrisies,
and envies, and all evil-speakings, as new-born babes desire the
sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby, if so be ye have
tasted that the Lord is gracious' (1 Peter 2:1-3). I will conclude
this with that of Peter, to those to whom he wrote concerning
this very thing. Be 'obedient children,' saith he, 'not fashioning
yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance; but as
he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of
conversation: because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy, And
if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judgeth
according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning
here in fear. Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with
corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation
received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious
blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot' (1
Peter 1:14-19).

From all which it appears, that mercy by Christ, or from the benefit
of redemption by the precious blood of Christ, I say, from the
faith of that, flows that which is holiness indeed. And I believe
that those very men that are pleased to taunt at this kind of
inference, would condemn a man was he laid under these obligations
concerning things of this life, and yet did carry it as one
not touched thereby. We will make an instance: Suppose a Socinian
should, through his contracting a great debt, be forced to rot in
prison, unless redeemed by silver and gold: and suppose a man, unto
whom this Socinian was an enemy, should lay down the whole debt
to the creditor, that this Socinian might be at liberty, might
trade, and live comfortably in this world; and if, after this, this
Socinian should taunt at them that should tell him he is engaged
to this redeemer, ought to love and respect this redeemer; what
would they say but that this Socinian that was a debtor is an
inconsiderate and stupefied rascal? Why, this is the case; Paul was
a debtor to the law and justice of God; Jesus Christ his Son, that
Paul might not perish for ever, paid for him a price of redemption,
to wit, his most precious blood. But what! Shall Paul now, though
redeemed from perpetual imprisonment in hell, be as one that never
was beholden to Jesus Christ; or if others say he was, taunt at them
for their so saying? No, he scorns it. Though the love of Christ,
in dying to pay a price of redemption, will not engage a Socinian,
yet it will engage a true Christian to think and believe that he
ought to live to Jesus, that died for him and rose again.

I know it will be objected that the Satisfactionists, as the quaking
Penn is pleased to call them, show but little of this to the world;
for their pride, covetousness, false dealing, and the like, since
they profess as I have said, shows them as little concerned to the
full as to the Socinian under consideration. I answer, it must be
that the name of Christ should be scandalized through some that
profess him; and they must answer it at the tribunal of the great
Judge; yet what I have said stands fast as a rock that cannot be
moved.

Eighth. The knowledge and faith of redemption is a very great
encouragement to prayer. It is great encouragement for the poor to
go even to a prince for what he wanteth, when he considereth that
what he goeth to him for is the price of redemption. All things
that we want, we must ask the Father for, in the name of Christ:
we must ask it of him for the sake of his redeeming blood, for the
sake of the merit of his passion (John 15:16). Thus David means,
when he says, 'For thy name's sake' do it (Psa 25:11); and Daniel
when he saith here, 'For the Lord's sake' (9:17). For Jesus Christ
is God's great name; and to do for his sake is to do for what
worthiness is in him.

Unworthiness! The consideration of unworthiness is a great
stumbling-block to the tempted when he goes to seek the Lord. But
now, remembering the worthiness of Christ, and that he is now on
the right hand of God, on purpose to plead that on the behalf of
the petitioner, this is great encouragement. The Jews, by God's
ordinance, when they went morning and evening by their priest to
speak with God, were to offer a lamb for a burnt-offering, and it
must be thus continually (Exo 29:38-46). Now this lamb was a figure
of the sacrificing of the body of Christ which was to be offered
for them in time to come; and, in that it was to be continually,
morning and evening, so repeated, what doth it signify, but that we
should remember to go, when we went to God, in the name and faith
of the merits of Jesus Christ for what we stood in need of? This
will support, and this will encourage, for now we see that the
thing desired--it being according to his will--is obtained for us
by the sacrificing of the body of Jesus Christ, once for all.

When Israel begged of Samuel that he would not cease to cry to
the Lord their God for them, it is said he took a sucking lamb and
offered it for a burnt-offering wholly unto the Lord; and Samuel
cried unto the Lord for Israel, and the Lord heard him (1 Sam 7:8,9).
But why did he take a sucking lamb, and why did he offer it, and
that wholly unto the Lord, as he cried, but to show to Israel that
he was not heard for his own, or for his righteousness sake, but
for the sake of Christ, whose merits were prefigured by Samuel's
burning of the lamb?

Also when David spake for himself to Saul, he put himself upon
this, 'If,' saith he, 'the Lord hath stirred thee up against me,
let him accept an offering, a smell, a sweet-smelling sacrifice; a
figure of the satisfactoriness of the sufferings of Jesus Christ'
(1 Sam 26:19). What is the meaning of all these passages, if not to
show that when we go to pray to God, we should turn away our face
from every thing of ours, and look to God, only by the price of
redemption paid for us by Jesus Christ, and plead that alone with
him as the great prevailing argument, and that by and for the
sake of which he giveth pardon and grace to help in time of need?
Wherefore, wouldst thou be a praying man, a man that would pray
and prevail? why, pray to God in the faith of the merits of Christ,
AND SPEED.[27]

Ninth. For this is the very cause why this is added in the text,
to wit, the plenteousness of redemption, it is, I say, that men
should hope to partake by it, of the goodness and mercy of God.
'Let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy,
and with him is plenteous redemption.' Mercy and redemption, mercy
through a Redeemer, therefore 'let Israel hope'! It must also be
noted, that this word redemption is, as it were, the explicatory
part of the text, for the helping of Israel to hope. As who should
say, as there is with God mercy, so there is with him a way to his
mercy, and that way is redemption, or a price paid for your sins;
and that you should not be discouraged through the greatness of
your sins, I tell you there is with God plenty of this redemption,
or a price paid to the full; to an over and above. It also is as
if he had said, Forget not this, for this is the key of all the
rest, and the great support to the saints in prayer, or while they
wait upon God in any of his appointments to encourage them to hope.

Tenth. And lastly, This also should teach the saints, when they
sin or praise the Lord, they should not sing of mercy only, but of
mercy and judgment too; 'I will sing of mercy and judgment; unto
thee, O Lord, will I sing' (Psa 101:1). Of mercy and judgment, or
justice in the manifestation of it, as smiling upon our forgiveness.
When Hannah sang of, and rejoiced in God's salvation, she sang
aloud of holiness, saying, 'There is none holy as the Lord' (1
Sam 2:1,2). Holy in keeping his word, though it cost the blood of
his Son. This also is that that is called a helping of his servant
Israel in remembrance of his mercy, and the performing of the mercy
promised; even the oath that he sware to our father Abraham, that
he would grant unto us, that we being delivered out of the hands
of our enemies--by a Redeemer--might serve him without fear, &c.
(Luke 1:49,54). When you praise, therefore, remember Christ and
his blood, and how justice and judgment took hold on him, that they
might not take hold on thee; yea, how they by taking hold on him,
left a way to thee to escape. Isaac should have been sacrificed,
had not the Lord provided a ram; and thou thyself shouldest have
been damned, had not the Lord provided a lamb (Gen 22; Rev 5).
Hence Christ is called the 'Lamb of God which taketh away the sin
of the world,' that taketh them away by the sacrifice of himself.
Sing therefore in your praises unto God, and to the Lamb!

[THE APPLICATION OR USE OF THE WHOLE.]

I would come now to speak one short word of use to the whole. And,

First. This still shows more and more, what a sad state God's
people have brought themselves into by sin. I told you before that
the revelation of so much mercy as is presented unto us by the first
part of the text, sufficiently declared our state to be miserable
by sin. But what shall we say, when there must be added to that
the heart blood of the Son of God, and all to make our salvation
complete? For albeit mercy is essential to our salvation, and that
without which there can be no salvation; yet it is the blood that
maketh the atonement for the soul, THAT propitiates, and so makes
capable of enjoying of it. It was mercy and love, as I said afore,
that sent one to shed his blood for us; and it is the blood of him
that was sent, that puts us into the enjoyment of mercy. O! I have
thought sometimes, what bloody creatures hath sin made us![28] The
beasts of the field must be slain by thousands before Christ came,
to signify to us we should have a Saviour; and after that, he must
come himself, and die a worse death than died those beasts, before
the work of saving could be finished. O redemption, redemption by
blood, is the heart-endearing consideration! This is that which
will make the water stand in our eyes, that will break a heart of
flint, and that will make one do as they do, that are 'in bitterness
for their first-born' (Zech 12:10).

Sinner, wouldst thou have mercy? wouldst thou be saved? Go thou
then to the blood of the cross, as set forth in the word of the
truth of the gospel, and there thou shalt find that mercy that
thou hast need of first; for there is a mercy that may be called
a FIRST mercy, and that is the mercy that gives admittance into,
and an interest in all the rest. Now the mercy that doth this, is
that which reconcileth us to God; but that other things cannot do,
if we stand off from the blood of the cross. Wherefore we are said
to be reconciled to God, by the death of his Son. 'For if when we
were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son;
much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life' (Rom
5:10). According to that other saying, 'He that spared not his own
Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also
freely give us all things?' (8:32). In both these places the Son
of God, and our Redeemer, is set forth to us in the first place,
as the only one that reconcileth to God the sinner by the blood
of his cross; wherefore to this Christ, as crucified, the sinner
must come first; because nothing else can reconcile to God; and if
thou be not reconciled to God, what art thou but an enemy to him,
partake of what mercy thou canst? (Col 1:20). Go to him, did I say?
receive him into the arms of thy faith; hold him fast, for he is a
Saviour; yea, carry him as set forth by the gospel, dying for thee,
and pray God for his sake to bestow upon thee all those mercies
that will compass thee about as with a shield, and follow thee all
thy days, till thou enterest in at the doors of eternity; and this
is the way to speed! For he that hath the Son hath life, in the
beginning of it; and he that holds fast the Son, shall have life in
the consummation of it. I do the oftener touch upon this matter,
because this Christ is the door, in at which whosoever entereth shall
be saved; but he that climbs up any other way, shall be judged as
a thief and a robber (John 10:1).[29] But,

Second. Is Christ, as crucified, the way and door to all spiritual
and eternal mercy? And doth God come to the sinner, and the sinner
again go to God in a saving way by him, and by him only? And is
there no other way to the Father but by his blood, and through the
veil, that is to say, his flesh? (Heb 10:19,20). Then this shows
the danger, upon what pretence soever, of casting off the daily
sacrifice, and setting up in its place the abomination that maketh
desolate. I mean, of casting away a crucified Christ, and the setting
up the vanity of moral obedience as the more substantial and most
acceptable thing with God. I call not a crucified Christ the daily
sacrifice, as if I thought he often suffered for sin, since the
foundation of the world; but because the virtue of that one offering
is that, and only that, by the which we daily draw nigh unto God;
and because the virtuousness of that one sacrifice will for ever
abide beneficial to them that come to God, to the world's end by
him.

But I say, into what a miserable plight have such people put
themselves, that have cast off coming to God by Christ, as he is
the propitiation for their sins, and that seek to come another way?
Such are lapsed again to Gentilism, to Paganism, to Heathenism; nor
will it help at all to say they rely on the mercy and goodness of
God, for there is no such thing as spiritual and eternal mercy can
come from God to him, that comes not to him by Christ. The Turks,
if I be not mistaken, have this for the beginning of every chapter
of their Alcoran, 'The Lord, God, gracious and merciful,'[30]
yet are counted unbelievers, and are verily so, for they have not
received the faith of Christ. The Lord God, gracious and merciful,
will not save them, no not by grace and mercy, unless repenting of
their presuming upon mercy, without a bloody sacrifice, they come
to him by his Son (Acts 4:12). Men therefore that have laid aside
the necessity of reconciliation to God by the precious blood of
Christ, are in a damned state; nor will it help at all to say they
do indeed believe in him. I am not so void of reason as to think
that they that have cast away Christ, as he is a propitiatory
sacrifice with God for sin, should also cast away his name out
of their mouth; no, his name is too honorable, and the profession
of it too glorious for them to do such a thing. But retaining his
name, and the notion of him as a Saviour, they yet cast him off,
and that in those very things wherein the essential part of his
sacrifice, the merit of it, and his everlasting priesthood, consists;
and in this lies the mystery of their iniquity.

They will have him to be a Saviour, but it must not be by fulfilling
of the law for us; but it must not be by the putting of his glorious
righteousness, that which he performed by subjecting himself to
the law, on our behalf, upon us; but it must not be by washing of
us from our sins in his own blood; but it must be by his kingly
and prophetical offices. When, as for his kingly and prophetical
offices, he puts those people under the government of them that he
has afore made to stand justified before God, from the curse of the
law by his priesthood. Nor dare they altogether deny that Christ
doth save his people as a priest, but then their art is to confound
these offices, by pleading that they are in effect but one and the
self-same thing; and then with a noise of morality and government,
they jostle the merit of his blood, and the perfection of his
justifying righteousness, out of doors; and so retaining the name
of Christ in their mouths, they cast those things of Christ, that
they like not, under feet; which things, they who have not the
faith of, must not, cannot see the kingdom of God.

The term of mercy is but a general sound, and is as an arrow shot
at rovers, unless the blood and death of the Son of God be set before
us, as the mark or mean by which our spirits are to be directed
to it. What profit shall a man have, and what shelter or succour
shall he find, in hearing of the most exact relation of the strength
of the most impregnable castle in the world, unless he knows the
door, and entereth in by that, into that place of strength, in the
time when the enemy shall pursue him? Why, this is the case: We
hear a noise of mercy, and of being at peace with God; what a good
God, God is, and what a blessed thing it is to be a child of God;
how many privileges the children of God have, and what will be
their exaltation and glory in the next world! And all the while they
that tell us these things conceal from us the way thereto, which is
Christ, not in the naming of him, but in the right administration
of his gospel to us.

Christ, and faith in him as a Saviour, not in the name only, but
in the true sense thereof, is the mark, as I have said, from which
if any swerve, they err from the saving way, and so come nothing near
that mercy that can save them. Hence Christ is called a standard,
an ensign (Isa 5:26). 'And in that day there shall be a root of
Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall
the Gentiles seek, and his rest shall be glorious' (Isa 11:10). And
again, 'Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I will lift up mine hand
to the Gentiles; and set up my standard to the people' (49:22).
'Go through, go through the gates, prepare ye the way of the
people,--gather out the stones, lift up a standard for the people.
Behold the Lord hath proclaimed to the end of the world; say ye
to the daughter of Zion, behold thy salvation cometh. Behold his
reward is with him, and his work before him' (62:10,11). Hence
again he is called the captain, the chieftain, of our salvation,
and him without whom there neither is nor can be any.

But now the men of this confederacy, rather than they will submit
themselves to the righteousness of God, will lay odiums and scandals
upon them that preach they should (Rom 10:2,4). Not forsooth, if you
will believe them, but that they are highly for the righteousness
of God, let it be that which they count so; but then to be sure it
shall never be the personal performances of Christ, by which they
that believe in him are justified from all things; but that which
they call 'first principles,' 'dictates of human nature,' 'obedience
to a moral precept,' followed and done as they have Christ for an
example; not understanding that Christ, in his own doings, is the
end of all these things to every one that believeth. But if it
be urged that Gentiles and Pagans are possessed with those very
principles, only they have not got the art, as our men have, to
cover them with the name of Christ and principles of Christianity,
then they fall to commending the heathens and their philosophers,
and the natural motives and principles by which they were actuated;
preferring of them much before what by others are called the graces
of the Spirit, and principles upon what the doctrine of the free
grace and mercy of God by Christ are grounded. But, as I said, all
the good that such preachers can do as to the next world, is, to
draw the people away from their ensign and their standard, and so
lead them among the Gentiles and infidels, to seek by their rules
the way to this unspeakable mercy of God. Wherefore their state
being thus deplorable, and their spirits thus incorrigible, they
must be pitied, and left, and fled from, if we would live.

Third. Is Christ Jesus the redemption; and, as such, the very
door and inlet into all God's mercies? Christian man, look well
to thyself, that thou goest no whither, and dost nothing, I mean
in any part of religious worship, &c., but as thou art in him (2
Cor 12:18,19).[31] Walk in him, speak in him, grow in him, for he
is THE ALL (Col 2:6,7). And though others regard not to 'hold the
head, from which all the body by joints and bands have nourishment
ministered,' yet have thou a care! (Eph 4:15; Col 2:19). This is
he that is thy life, and the length of thy days, and without whom
no true happiness can be had. Many there be that count this but a
low thing; they desire to soar aloft, to fly into new notions, and
to be broaching of new opinions, not counting themselves happy,
except they can throw some new-found fangle, to be applauded for,
among their novel-hearers. But fly thou to Christ for life; and
that thou mayest so do, remember well thy sins, and the judgment
and wrath of God; and know also that he is merciful, but at mercy
none can come, but through the cursed death Christ underwent. And
although some of the wanton professors of our age may blame thee
for poring so much upon thy sins, and the pollution of thy nature,
yet know that there is an advantage in it. There be some alive in
the world, who, though they count the nature and commission of sin
the very evil of evils, yet can say that the remembrance of how
vile they are, and of what evils they have committed, has been to
them a soul-humbling, a Christ-advancing, and a creature-emptying
consideration. Though sin made death bitter to Christ, yet sin
makes Christ sweet to his. And though none should sin, that grace
might abound, yet where sin has abounded, grace doth much more
abound, not only as an act of God, but also in the eye of faith.

A sight of the filth, and a sense of the guilt of sin, makes a
pardon to such a soul more than empty notion; and makes the mean
through which the pardon comes more to be desired than is either
life or limb. This is it that makes the sensible soul prize the
Lord Jesus, while the self-justiciary[32] laugheth him to scorn.
This is it which makes the awakened sinner cast away his own
righteousness, while the self-conceited one makes it his advocate
with the Father.

Some, indeed, count their own doings the only darling of their
soul, while others cast it to the dogs. And why should a man cumber
himself with what is his, when the good of all that is in Christ
is laid, and to be laid out for him? Not that a believer casts
off to do good, for he knows that what good thing is done in faith
and love, is acceptable to God, and profitable to his neighbour.
But this is it, he setteth not his good deed against the judgment
of God; he cometh not in his own good. When he comes to God for
forgiveness of sins, then he sees nothing, knows nothing, mentions
nothing as righteousness, but that which Christ wrought out in the
days of his flesh, and that only. But how then is what he doth
accepted of God? Verily as the duty of a son, and as the work
of one that is justified. We must therefore conclude that there
is acceptation, and acceptation: acceptation of the person, and
acceptation of his performance. Acceptation of the person may be
considered with respect to justification from the curse, and so
acceptation there can be none, but through the one offering of the
body of Jesus Christ once for all. Also the acceptation of a duty
done by such a person is, by virtue of the self-same offering,
the person being considered as standing just through Christ before
God. And the reason why a justified person must have his duties
accepted the same way, as is his person, is because justifying
righteousness sets not the person free from sin, save only in the
sight of God and conscience; he remaineth still infirm in himself,
and standeth still in need of the fresh and continual application
of the merits of the Lord Jesus, which also the soul receiveth by
virtue of Christ's intercession. I speak now of acceptation with
reference to the justice of the law, and the judgment of God upon
person or work, according to the self-same law. For so they both
must be accepted through the self-same Mediator, or they cannot be
accepted at all. Nor is it a thing to be wondered at, that a man
should stand just in the sight of God, when polluted and defiled
in his own sight. He stands just before God in the justice of his
Son, upon whom God looks, and for whose sake he accepts him. May not
a scabbed, mangy man, a man all over-run with blains and blotches,
be yet made beautiful to the view of a beholder, through the silken,
silver, golden garment that may be put upon him, and may cover all
his flesh? Why, the righteousness of Christ is not only unto but
upon all them that believe (Rom 3:22). And whoso considers the
parable of the wretched infant, shall find, that before it was
washed with water it was wrapped up or covered, as it was found,
in its blood, in and with the skirt of his garment that found it in
its filth. And then he washed it with water, and then he sanctified
it by the anointing oil of the Spirit of God (Eze 16:8,9). I speak
thus to thee, Christian reader, partly because in the faith of these
things is thy life; and because I would yet enforce the exhortation
upon thee with the reason and the amplification thereof, to wit, to
put thee upon trusting in the Lord through the encouragement that
thou hast in redeeming mercy so to do.

Some may say, Will God see that which is not? and will he judge a
man just that is a sinner? But I will answer, The man that had the
rainbow about his head, was to look on, or be looked upon, while
he shone like a jasper and a sardix-stone (Rev 4:3). The blood of
the paschal lamb was to be looked upon by him that came to destroy
the land of Egypt in their firstborn (Exo 12:13). I add, The rainbow
that God gave to Noah for a token that he would no more destroy the
earth with the waters of the flood, was to be looked upon, that
God might remember to show mercy to his people (Gen 9:8-17). Now
all these meet in the man Christ Jesus, who is the only one, for
the sake of whom the sinner that believeth in him stands acquitted
in the sight of God. His is the blood, he is the prince, that is
more than the token of the covenant: nor do all the colours in the
rainbow appear so beautiful in the eyes of man, as does the garment
of Christ; which is from his loins, even upward, and from his loins,
even downward, in the eyes of the God of heaven (Eze 1:27,28). And
wilt thou say these are things that are not? Also, he can legally
judge a man just, that is a sinner. Do but admit of a diverse
consideration, and God will so consider of that sinner which he
justifieth, in despite of all the teeth in thy proud mouth! 'He
justifieth the ungodly' (Rom 4:5). Not that were, but that are such
now, in the judgment and verdict of the law, might deal with them
in their own persons as men (Rom 5:5-10). He will then consider them
in his Son; in, and under the skirt of his Son. He will consider
them as washed in the blood of his Son, and will also consider
'that in him is no sin,' and so he will deal with them. 'We know
that he was manifested to take away our sins, and in him is no sin'
(1 John 3:5).

What though I have broke a thousand pound in my creditor's debt--yet
if another will discharge the whole freely, what has the law to
do with me as to that? Or what if I cannot but live upon the spend
all my days, yet if my friend will always supply my need, and,
through his bounty, keep me from writ, bailiff, or jail, is it not
well for me? Yea, what if what I can get shall be laid up for me
for hereafter, and that my friend, so long as there is death or
danger in the way, will himself secure me, and bear my charges to
the world's end; may I not accept thereof, and be thankful? Blessed
be God for Jesus Christ! I believe he is more than all this to me.
'In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall
glory' (Isa 45:25). I know similitudes will not hold in all things;
but we that believe are set free from the curse of the law by
another man's obedience. For 'by the obedience of one shall many
be made righteous' (Rom 5:19). Let then the believer, as was said,
study and pray, and read God's Word continually, for the sake
of the glory of this truth, that it may be made more his own, and
that his conscience may be more and more settled in the power and
glory thereof.[33]

Fourth. As the Christian should most labour to get into the power
and glory of this doctrine, so let him see that he holds it fast.
This doctrine is foreign to flesh and blood; it is not earthly,
but from heaven (Matt 16:17). It is with many that begin with this
doctrine, as it is with boys that go to the Latin school; they
learn till they have learned the grounds of their grammar, and then
go home and forget all. How have many, that as to the grounds of
Christian religion, one would think, had been well taught, yet not
taking such heed thereto as they should, they have let slip all,
and their hearts have been filled with the world again, or else
have drunk in some opinion that has been diametrically opposite
to what they professed of the truth before (Heb 2:1-4). Wherefore
hast thou anything of the truth of Christ in thy heart? 'Hold that
fast, that no man take thy crown' (Rev 3:11). Yea 'grow in grace,
and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ' (2 Peter
3:18).

He that will retain and hold fast the doctrine of redemption, and
so by that have, through faith, an inlet into all the abounding
mercy of God, must not deal in God's matters with a slack hand. It
is not enough for them that would do so, to be content with sermons,
family duties, and other public assemblies for worship, but there
must be a continual exercise of the mind about these matters, and
a labour of the soul to retain them in their glory and sweetness;
else they will, first as to their excellency, then as to the very
notion of them, slip from the heart and be gone (Heb 2:1-3). Not
that there is treachery or deceit therein, but the deceit lies in
the heart about them. He that will keep water in a sieve, must use
more than ordinary diligence. Our heart is the leaking vessel; and
'therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things
which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip.'

That this doctrine may remain with us, we must also mortify our
carnal reason: for that makes head against the truth thereof, and
what can foolishness do else? And the wisdom of this world, which
is carnal reason in its improvements, is foolishness with God (1
Cor 1:20-25). It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed
can it be. It judges this doctrine that we have been speaking of,
foolishness; wherefore it must be avoided, opposed and mortified,
and the word of faith the more carefully submitted to. 'Trust in the
Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding'
(Rom 3:5). See here, that trusting in the Lord, and leaning to our
own understanding, are opposites; wherefore they must either be
reconciled, or one quite adhered unto, in a way of mortification
of the other. Now, it is safest in this matter to keep a continual
guard upon our carnal powers; and to give up ourselves to the
conduct of our God, and in all our ways acknowledge him, that he,
not ourselves, may direct our paths (v 6). It is a great thing for
a man, when the Word and his reason clashes, then to adhere to the
Word, and let his reason fall to the ground. And this indeed is
Christianity in the practical part thereof. The Spirit of Christ
in the Word is to be hearkened unto, above all things (2 Cor 10:3-5).

There must also be a continual war maintained upon all the lusts
of the flesh, that they may not draw away the heart from the study
and delight, the love and faith, of the things that are hid in
Christ (Isa 28:9). This, I say, must be done, else the heart cannot
be at liberty to wait upon the Lord without distraction, for the
further communications of himself in his Son, according to his
blessed gospel to us. Many Christians are lean in their faith and
too barren in their lives, and all for want of being diligent here.
Wherefore having faith in this blessed Lord Jesus Christ, as has
been afore discoursed; in the next place, 'giving all diligence, add
to your faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge,
temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness;
and to godliness, brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness,
charity. For if these things be in you and abound, they make you
that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge
of our Lord' and Saviour 'Jesus Christ' (2 Peter 1:5-8). There is
a method that the Holy Ghost has prescribed in the Word, for them
that hath faith to observe, and without the observation thereof,
though they indeed may be of the number of them that shall be
saved, yet they shall not have much, nor do much, for Christ and
his name, in this world. Now the unskilful, that are so in the word
of righteousness, finding this method, and not discerning to whom
it belongs, forthwith apply it to all; and forgetting that faith
must go before, they press them as duties preparatory to faith, or
else so call that which is not so; and so the blind leading of the
blind, both fall into the ditch, and are smothered. But do thou, O
child of God, distinguish, and keep faith and duty for justification
of thy person in the sight of God far asunder; also be sure to let
faith go before, and be always with thy Saviour, but add unto thy
faith, virtue, &c., not as though thy faith could not lay hold of
Christ, unless accompanied with these, but to show that thy faith
is of the right kind, as also for the emboldening of thee to an
holy endeavour yet to press further into his everlasting kingdom
and his word; for he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot
see afar off, and has forgotten that he was purged from his old
sins.

Fifth. That thou mayest keep steadfast to this doctrine take heed
of being offended, or of stumbling at the Word, because of the
offensive lives and conversations of some that are professors of
the same. There will be offences, and it is needful there should;
yea, scandals and heresies also, that they that are approved of
God 'may be made manifest among you' (1 Cor 11:19). There are many
causes of the offensive lives of them that profess this faith, some
of which I will give a touch upon here.

1. Many that adhere to, and profess this gospel, are short of the
power and glory of the things which they profess: now the word, the
word only, will not bring those that profess it into a conformity to
it; into a conformity in heart and life (1 Cor 4:18-20). Wherefore
they that know it only in word, live scandalous lives, to the reproach
of the faith, the emboldening of its enemies, the stumbling of the
ignorant, and grief of the godly, that are so indeed, and such must
bear their judgment in the next world.

2. This also flows from the wisdom of hell: the devil knows that
the faith of the gospel rightly professed, is, not only saving to
those in whom it is, but alluring unto beholders: wherefore that he
may prevent the beauteous lustre thereof, he sows his tares among
God's wheat, and goes his way, that is, to the end those that stumble
may not see what he hath done, or whose are the tares indeed. Now
by these the sunshine of the faith of the true professors of the
blessed gospel is clouded; yea, and the world made believe, that such
as the worst are, such are the best; but there is never a barrel
better herring,[34] but that the whole lump of them are, in truth,
a pack of knaves. Now has the devil got the point aimed at, and
has caused many to fall; but behold ye now the good reward these
tares shall have at the day of reward for their doings. 'As therefore
the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so shall it be in
the end of this world. The Son of man shall send forth his angels,
and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend,
and them which do iniquity, and shall cast them into a furnace of
fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth' (Mat 13:37-42).

3. It also happeneth, sometimes, through the anger and judgment
of God against sinners, that some of them truly gracious do fall,
as David, Peter, &c., the which is a great trial to the godly, a
wound to the persons fallen, and a judgment of God to the world.
For since these last would not be converted, nor made turn to God
by the convincing glory that has attended their faith in a holy
and unblameable life annexed, God has suffered them to fall, that
they also might stumble and fall, and be dashed in pieces by their
vices. But thou, Christian man, be not thou offended at any of
these things; do thou look unto Jesus, do thou look unto his Word,
do thou live by faith, and think much of thy latter end; do thou
be base in thine own eyes, be humble and tender, and pray to God
always; do thou add to thy faith virtue, and to virtue what else
is mentioned; and 'give diligence to make thy calling and election
sure; for if thou doest these things thou shalt never fall: for
so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly, into the
everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ' (2 Peter
1:10,11).

Sixth. If it be so, that there is so much mercy in the heart of
God for his people, and that Jesus his Son has by his blood made
so living a way for us that we might enjoy it, and the benefit of
it for ever, 'then let Israel hope': for to that end is this goodness
revealed: 'Let Israel hope in the Lord; for with the Lord there is
mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.' Hope! Who would not
hope to enjoy life eternal, that has an inheritance in the God of
Israel? 'Happy art thou, O Israel, who is like unto thee, O people
saved by the Lord, the shield of thy help, and who is the sword
of thy excellency?' (Deut 33:29). Did but the people of God see to
what they are born, and how true the God of truth will be to what
by his Word they look for at his hands, they would be above alway;
they would be weary of life, of estates, of relations; they would
groan earnestly under all their enjoyments to be with him, who is
their life, their portion, and their glory for ever. But we profess,
and yet care not for dying; we profess, and yet long not for the
coming of the day of God; we profess the faith, and yet by our whole
life show to them that can see how little a measure of it we have
in our hearts. The Lord lead us more into the power of things;
then shall the virtues of him that has saved us, and called us out
of darkness into his marvellous light, and the savour of his good
knowledge, be made known to others far otherwise than it is. Amen.

Seventh. And lastly, Sinner, doth not all this discourse make
thy heart twitter after the mercy that is with God, and after the
way that is made by this plenteous redemption thereto? Methinks
it should; yea, thou couldst not do otherwise, didst thou but see
thy condition: look behind thee, take a view of the path thou hast
trodden these many years. Dost thou think that the way that thou
art in will lead thee to the strait gate, sinner? Ponder the path
of thy feet with the greatest seriousness, thy life lies upon it;
what thinkest thou? But make no answer till in the night, till thou
art in the night-watches. 'Commune with your own heart upon your
bed' (Psa 4:4), and then say what thou thinkest of, whether thou
art going?

O that thou wert serious! Is not it a thing to be lamented, that
madness and folly should be in thy heart while thou livest, and
after that to go to the dead, when so much life stands before thee,
and light to see the way to it? (Eccl 9:3). Surely, men void of
grace, and possessed of carnal minds, must either think that sin
is nothing, that hell is easy, and that eternity is short; or else
that whatever God has said about the punishing of sinners, he will
never do as he has said; or that there is no sin, no God, no heaven,
no hell, and so no good or bad hereafter; or else they could not
live as they do. But perhaps thou presumest upon it, and sayest, I
shall have peace, though I live so sinful a life. Sinner, if this
wicked thought be in thy heart, tell me again, dost thou thus think
in earnest? Canst thou imagine thou shalt at the day of account
out-face God, or make him believe thou wast what thou wast not?
or that when the gate of mercy is shut up in wrath, he will at thy
pleasure, and to the reversing of his own counsel, open it again
to thee? Why shall thy deceived heart turn thee aside, that thou
canst not deliver thy soul, 'nor say, Is there not a lie in my
right hand?' (Isa 44:20).

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The titles to the Psalms have puzzled all the commentators.
Bunyan follows Luther; who adds, that the title to the Psalms of
Degrees does not pertain to any doctrine, but only to the ceremony
of the singers. Ainsworth applies it to the place or tone of voice
of the singers, or to a special excellency of the Psalm. Calmet
and Bishop Horsley consider that the title refers to the progress
of the soul towards eternal felicity, ascending by degrees. Watford
imagines that these Psalms were written or selected to be sung on
the ascent of the Jews from the captivity in Babylon. Luther wisely
concludes that the Christian has only to do with the brief and very
notable doctrine contained in these fifteen steps or degrees.--Ed.

[2] 'The hither,' or nearest end; now obsolete.--Ed.

[3] When Diabolus, in the Holy War, marched against Mansoul, his
infernal drum affrighted the backsliding Mansoul with its roaring.
'This, to speak truth, was amazingly hideous to hear; it frighted
all men seven miles round.' This drum was beat every night, and
'when the drum did go, behold darkness and sorrow over Mansoul; the
light was darkened in the heaven thereof, no noise was ever heard
upon earth more terrible; Mansoul trembled, and looked to be
swallowed up.' This awful alarm--this terrible drum--is a want of
a good hope through faith, which purifieth the heart.--Ed.

[4] How comforting is that declaration of the Holy Spirit, 'For now
we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face'! however we
may have had a glimpse of glory to strengthen us in the way. This
revelation was through one who had been 'caught up into paradise,'
and who had 'abundance of revelations,' so great that it was needful
for him to have 'a thorn in the flesh,' to keep him humble. Blessed
is Israel's 'Hope' of happiness, inconceivable and eternal.--Ed.

[5] See the marginal reading to this text.--Ed.

[6] Ecclesiastical writers, previous to Bunyan's time, made
an hierarchy of nine orders of celestial spirits, viz., seraphim,
cherubim, thrones, dominions, virtues, powers, principalities,
archangels, and angels; agreeing with Bunyan as to the angels
being the lowest order in these celestial hierarchies. The angels
are ministering spirits. May not the glorified saints become angels?
Who was that angel who said to John, 'I and thy fellow-servant,
and of thy brethren the prophets' (Rev 22:9).--Ed.

[7] This is a striking illustration. Fear 'makes us question our
right to the world to come,' and nails us to the earth; but it is
sin which clenches the nail, and makes us cry, O wretched man that
I am! who can deliver me? Poor Bunyan, in his Grace Abounding,
mournfully illustrates this fact.--Ed.

[8] In Bunyan's days, persecution for conscience sake was more
extensive under the Protestant Church of England than it was even
in the fiery days of Mary. Tens of thousands fled to seek an asylum
among savages in America, who were not permitted to live among men
worse than savages in England. Thousands were immured in prisons,
where many hundreds perished, and with those who suffered a violent
death received the crown of martyrdom. Even now they that will live
godly in Christ Jesus, must submit to taunts, jeers, and reproaches.
May we forget not the Saviour's comforting declaration, 'Blessed
are you when persecuted, reviled, and spoken against falsely for
my sake.'--Ed.

[9] This is the language of an eye-witness, and not a theory. Our
author had associated with every man in jail, whose bitter suffering,
and that of their families, tried the faith and patience of the
saints, and winnowed the church of formal professors.--Ed.

[10] Often have God's saints rejoiced in tribulation, and, like
Stephen, when put to death with excruciating torments, have prayed
for their enemies. Bunyan's fear was, when threatened to be hung
for preaching Christ, that he should make but 'a scrabbling shift
to clamber up the ladder.' He was, however, comforted with the hope
that his dying speech might be blessed to some of the spectators.--Grace
Abounding, Nos. 334, 335.--Ed.

[11] How forcibly does this remind us of the escape of the poor
doubting pilgrims from the castle of Giant Despair. The outer gate,
like that of the prison in which Peter was confined, was of iron
(Acts 12:10). But Peter had a heavenly messenger as his guide, and
faith was in lively exercise, so that 'the gate opened to them of
his own accord.' 'God cut the gates of iron in sunder' (Psa 107:16).
The pilgrims lay for four days under dreadful sufferings, bordering
on black despair. He had overlooked or laid by the 'key that doth
go too hard'; prayer brought it to his recollection, and he cried
out, 'What a fool am I thus to be in a stinking dungeon, when I may
as well walk at liberty.' He recollected the 'key called promise,'
which will open ALL the gates in Doubting Castle; and although the
lock of that iron gate went damnable hard, yet the key did open
it, and the prisoners escaped; see Grace Abounding, Nos 261-263.
Fellow-pilgrims 'look not over,' nor 'lay by,' those keys that
'go too hard,' the prayerful use of which may save us much bitter
dejection and gloomy doubts.--Ed.

[12] The murder of Sir E. Godfrey, and the fears of a Popish plot,
greatly alarmed the country at this time. The recollection of the
frightful atrocities committed by the Papists upon the unoffending
and unarmed Protestants in Ireland, led to the fears which are here
so forcibly, but naturally, expressed. Although we re here directed
to the sole ground of hope in the spiritual warfare, yet doubtless,
in temporal things, Bunyan felt the necessity of human agency. Had
he lived to witness the punishment inflicted on these murderers by
William III, he would have owned with gratitude the services rendered
to the nation by that warlike king and his brave parliament.--Ed.

[13] How infinite is the condescension of Jehovah to enter into
such a relationship with every member of his mystical body, the
church. 'Thy Maker is thy husband, the Lord of Hosts is his name'
(Isa 14:5). Surely it hath not entered into the heart of man to
conceive the riches of that endowment, the magnificence of that
estate.--Ed.

[14] Beware lest an evil heart, and Satan's devices, lead us to
idolatry. All our ideas of God must be formed and governed by his
revelation of himself in his Word.--Ed.

[15] Gospellers was the nick-name for those who loved the gospel
at the Reformation, as Puritan or Methodist in a later age.--Ed.

[16] These are solemn and bitter truths. While the public assembly
is at times the gate of heaven to the soul, sincerity is better
evidenced by heart-wrestling with God in private. No duty draws
down such blessings from heaven, nor has greater opposition from
Satan, than earnest closet prayer. While it humbles the soul before
God, it excites our zeal in good works and a heavenly conduct
towards man.--Ed.

[17] 'For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every
son whom he receiveth' (Heb 12:6,7).--Ed.

[18] In Popish times, the poor wretchedly and lazily depended upon
the alms of the rich, which were especially bestowed at a funeral,
to buy their prayers for the repose of the soul; and at wedding,
for a blessing on the newly-married couple. Happily for them they
are now taught, by gospel light, to depend, under God, upon their
honest exertions to produce the means of existence and enjoyment,
as the most valuable class of society.--Ed.

[19] Bunyan had felt all this. 'Alas!' says he, 'I could neither
hear Christ, nor see him, nor feel him, nor savour any of his
things; I was driven with a tempest, my heart would be unclean, the
Canaanites would come into the land.'--Grace Abounding, No. 78.--Ed.

[20] See 2 Samuel 2:23, 3:27. To smite under the fifth rib is to
give a mortal blow.--Ed.

[21] Human laws we must obey, unless they infringe upon the prerogative
of God and upon conscience; to such we must refuse obedience, and
count it an honour to suffer as Daniel and the Hebrew youths. These
laws we may strive to get repealed or amended; but the laws of God
are immutable and eternal--they must be obeyed, or we perish.--Ed.

[22] How striking an exemplification is this of our utter helplessness
and the unbounded love of God. O my soul, it is impossible to number
or recollect all his mercies, but take heed lest thou forget them
all.--Ed.

[23] The reader will easily understand this passage if he considers
'these folks' to mean those who were deterred from making a public
profession of faith, by the fear of 'the enemies,' or persecutors,
properly called the devil's scarecrows. 'Today,' refers to the time
in which this encouraging treatise was written. Then persecutors
and informers were let loose upon the churches, like a swarm of
locusts. Many folks were terrified, and much defection prevailed.
But for such a time God prepared Bunyan, Baxter, Owen, Howe, and
many others of equal piety. Thus, when the enemy cometh in like
a flood, the Spirit of the Lord shall lift up a standard against
him.--Ed.

[24] The word 'virtuous' is now very rarely used in this sense;
it means, 'efficacious by inherent qualities,' or having great or
powerful properties, as, 'By virtue of our Lord's intercession';
see Imperial Dictionary.--Ed.

[25] 'Tang'; a strong sense, flavour, or relish.--Ed.

[26] 'O the unthought of imagination