ll quartzy in the middle.  They offer to take
him by weight at three dollars and a half per pound below standard.
Please say if agreeable.

"I fear, my dear, that there are bad times coming for all of us
here in this part.  Not about money, but a long sight worse; bad
will, and contention, and rebellion, perhaps.  What we hear
concerning it is not much here; but even here thoughts are very
much divided.  Ephraim takes a different view from mine; which is
not a right thing for a grandson to do; and neighbor Sylvester goes
with him.  The Lord send agreement and concord among us; but, if He
doeth so, He must change his mind first, for every man is borrowing
his neighbor's gun.

"If there is any thing that you can do to turn Ephraim back to his
duty, my dear, I am sure that, for love of us, you will do it.  If
Firm was to run away from me now, and go fighting on behalf of
slavery, I never should care more for naught upon this side of
Jordan; and the new mill might go to Jericho; though it does look
uncommon handsome now, I can assure you, and tears through its work
like a tiger.

"Noting symptoms in your last of the price of things in England,
and having carried over some to your account, inclosed please to
find a bill for five hundred dollars, though not likely to be
wanted yet.  Save a care of your money, my dear; but pay your way
handsome, as a Castlewood should do.  Jowler goes his rounds twice
a day looking for you; and somebody else never hangs his hat up
without casting one eye at the corner you know.  Sylvester's girl
was over here last week, dashing about as usual.  If Firm goes
South, he may have her, for aught I care, and never see saw-mill
again.  But I hope that the Lord will spare my old days such
disgrace and tribulation.

"About you know what, my dear, be not overanxious.  I have been
young, and now am old, as the holy Psalmist says; and the more I
see of the ways of men, the less I verily think of them.  Their
good esteem, their cap in hand, their fair fame, as they call it,
goes by accident, and fortune, the whim of the moment, and the way
the clever ones have of tickling them.  A great man laughs at the
flimsy of it, and a good one goes to his conscience.  Your father
saw these things at their value.  I have often grieved that you can
not see them so; but perhaps I have liked you none the worse, my
dear.

"Don't forget about going South.  A word from you may stop him.  It
is almost the only hope I have, and even that may be too late.
Suan Isco and Martin send messages.  The flowers are on your
father's grave.  I have got a large order for pine cradles in great
haste, but have time to be,

"Truly yours,

"SAMPSON GUNDRY."


That letter, while it relieved me in one way, from the want of
money, cost me more than ten times five hundred dollars' worth of
anxiety.  The Sawyer had written to me twice ere this--kind, simple
letters, but of no importance, except for their goodness and
affection.  But now it was clear that when he wrote this letter he
must have been sadly put out and upset.  His advice to me was
beyond all value; but he seemed to have kept none at home for
himself.  He was carried quite out of his large, staid ways when he
wrote those bitter words about poor Firm--the very apple of his
eye, as the holy Psalmist says.  And, knowing the obstinacy of them
both, I dreaded clash between them.



CHAPTER XXXI

ADRIFT


Having got money enough to last long with one brought up to
simplicity, and resolved to have nothing to do for a while with
charity or furnished lodgings (what though kept by one's own
nurse), I cast about now for good reason to be off from all the
busy works at Bruntsea.  So soon after such a tremendous blow, it
was impossible for me to push my own little troubles and concerns
upon good Mr. Shovelin's family, much as I longed to know what was
to become of my father's will, if any thing.  But my desire to be
doing something, or, at least, to get away for a time from
Bruntsea, was largely increased by Sir Montague Hockin's strange
behavior toward me.

That young man, if still he could be called young--which, at my
age, scarcely seemed to be his right, for he must have been ten
years older than poor Firm--began more and more every day to come
after me, just when I wanted to be quite alone.  There was nothing
more soothing to my thoughts and mind (the latter getting quiet
from the former, I suppose) than for the whole of me to rest a
while in such a little scollop of the shingle as a new-moon tide,
in little crescents, leaves just below high-water mark.  And now it
was new-moon tide again, a fortnight after the flooding of our fly
by the activity of the full moon; and, feeling how I longed to
understand these things--which seem to be denied to all who are of
the same sex as the moon herself--I sat in a very nice nick, where
no wind could make me look worse than nature willed.  But of my own
looks I never did think twice, unless there was any one to speak of
such a subject.

Here I was sitting in the afternoon of a gentle July day, wondering
by what energy of nature all these countless pebbles were produced,
and not even a couple to be found among them fit to lie side by
side and purely tally with each other.  Right and left, for miles
and miles, millions multiplied into millions; yet I might hold any
one in my palm and be sure that it never had been there before.
And of the quiet wavelets even, taking their own time and manner,
in default of will of wind, all to come and call attention to their
doom by arching over, and endeavoring to make froth, were any two
in sound and size, much more in shape and shade, alike?  Every one
had its own little business, of floating pop-weed or foam bubbles
or of blistered light, to do; and every one, having done it, died
and subsided into its successor.

"A trifle sentimental, are we?" cried a lively voice behind me, and
the waves of my soft reflections fell, and instead of them stood
Sir Montague Hockin, with a hideous parasol.

I never received him with worse grace, often as I had repulsed him;
but he was one of those people who think that women are all whims
and ways.

"I grieve to intrude upon large ideas," he said, as I rose and
looked at him, "but I act under positive orders now.  A lady knows
what is best for a lady.  Mrs. Hockin has been looking from the
window, and she thinks that you ought not to be sitting in the sun
like this.  There has been a case of sun-stroke at Southbourne--a
young lady meditating under the cliff--and she begs you to accept
this palm leaf."

I thought of the many miles I had wandered under the fierce
Californian sun; but I would not speak to him of that.  "Thank
you," I said; "it was very kind of her to think of it, and of you
to do it.  But will it be safe for you to go back without it?"

"Oh, why should I do so?" he answered, with a tone of mock pathos
which provoked me always, though I never could believe it to be
meant in ridicule of me, for that would have been too low a thing;
and, besides, I never spoke so.  "Could you bear to see me slain by
the shafts of the sun?  Miss Castlewood, this parasol is amply
large for both of us."

I would not answer him in his own vein, because I never liked his
vein at all; though I was not so entirely possessed as to want
every body to be like myself.

"Thank you; I mean to stay here," I said; "you may either leave the
parasol or take it, whichever will be less troublesome.  At any
rate, I shall not use it."

A gentleman, according to my ideas, would have bowed and gone upon
his way; but Sir Montague Hockin would have no rebuff.  He seemed
to look upon me as a child, such as average English girls, fresh
from little schools, would be.  Nothing more annoyed me, after all
my thoughts and dream of some power in myself, than this.

"Perhaps I might tell you a thing or two," he said, while I kept
gazing at some fishing-boats, and sat down again, as a sign for him
to go--"a little thing or two of which you have no idea, even in
your most lonely musings, which might have a very deep interest for
you.  Do you think that I came to this hole to see the sea?  Or
that fussy old muff of a Major's doings?"

"Perhaps you would like me to tell him your opinion of his
intellect and great plans," I answered.  "And after all his
kindness to you!"

"You never will do that," he said; "because you are a lady, and
will not repeat what is said in confidence.  I could help you
materially in your great object, if you would only make a friend of
me."

"And what would your own object be?  The pure anxiety to do right?"

"Partly, and I might say mainly, that; also an ambition for your
good opinion, which seems so inaccessible.  But you will think me
selfish if I even hint at any condition of any kind.  Every body I
have ever met with likes me, except Miss Castlewood."

As he spoke he glanced down his fine amber-colored beard, shining
in the sun, and even in the sun showing no gray hair (for a reason
which Mrs. Hockin told me afterward), and he seemed to think it
hard that a man with such a beard should be valued lightly.

"I do not see why we should talk," I said, "about either likes or
dislikes.  Only, if you have any thing to tell, I shall be very
much obliged to you."

This gentleman looked at me in a way which I have often observed
in England.  A general idea there prevails that the free and
enlightened natives of the West are in front of those here in
intelligence, and to some extent, therefore, in dishonesty.  But
there must be many cases where the two are not the same.

"No," I replied, while he was looking at his buttons, which had
every British animal upon them; "I mean nothing more than the
simple thing I say.  If you ought to tell me any thing, tell it.  I
am accustomed to straightforward people.  But they disappoint one
by their never knowing any thing."

"But I know something," he answered, with a nod of grave,
mysterious import; "and perhaps I will tell you some day, when
admitted, if ever I have such an honor, to some little degree of
friendship."

"Oh, please not to think of yourself," I exclaimed, in a manner
which must have amused him.  "In such a case, the last thing that
you should do is that.  Think only of what is right and honorable,
and your duty toward a lady.  Also your duty to the laws of your
country.  I am not at all sure that you ought not to be arrested.
But perhaps it is nothing at all, after all; only something
invented to provoke me."

"In that case, I can only drop the subject," he answered, with that
stern gleam of the eyes which I had observed before, and detested.
"I was also to tell you that we dine to-day an hour before the
usual time, that my cousin may go out in the boat for whiting.  The
sea will be as smooth as glass.  Perhaps you will come with us."

With these words, he lifted his hat and went off, leaving me in a
most uncomfortable state, as he must have known if he had even
tried to think.  For I could not get the smallest idea what he
meant; and, much as I tried to believe that he must be only
pretending, for reasons of his own, to have something important to
tell me, scarcely was it possible to be contented so.  A thousand
absurd imaginations began to torment me as to what he meant.  He
lived in London so much, for instance, that he had much quicker
chance of knowing whatever there was to know; again, he was a man
of the world, full of short, sharp sagacity, and able to penetrate
what I could not; then, again, he kept a large account with
Shovelin, Wayte, and Shovelin, as Major Hockin chanced to say; and
I knew not that a banker's reserve is much deeper than his deposit;
moreover--which, to my mind, was almost stronger proof than any
thing--Sir Montague Hockin was of smuggling pedigree, and likely to
be skillful in illicit runs of knowledge.

However, in spite of all this uneasiness, not another word would I
say to him about it, waiting rather for him to begin again upon it.
But, though I waited and waited, as, perhaps, with any other person
I scarcely could have done, he would not condescend to give me even
another look about it.

Disliking that gentleman more and more for his supercilious conduct
and certainty of subduing me, I naturally turned again to my good
host and hostess.  But here there was very little help or support
to be obtained at present.  Major Hockin was laying the foundations
of "The Bruntsea Assembly-Rooms, Literary Institute, Mutual
Improvement Association, Lyceum, and Baths, from sixpence upward;"
while Mrs. Hockin had a hatch of "White Sultans," or, rather, a
prolonged sitting of eggs, fondly hoped to hatch at last, from
having cost so much, like a chicken-hearted Conference.  Much as I
sorrowed at her disappointment--for the sitting cost twelve
guineas--I could not feel quite guiltless of a petty and ignoble
smile, when, after hoping against hope, upon the thirtieth day she
placed her beautifully sound eggs in a large bowl of warm water, in
which they floated as calmly as if their price was a penny a dozen.
The poor lady tried to believe that they were spinning with
vitality; but at last she allowed me to break one, and lo! it had
been half boiled by the advertiser.  "This is very sad," cried Mrs.
Hockin; and the patient old hen, who was come in a basket of hay to
see the end of it, echoed with a cluck that sentiment.

These things being so, I was left once more to follow my own
guidance, which had seemed, in the main, to be my fortune ever
since my father died.  For one day Mr. Shovelin had appeared, to my
great joy and comfort, as a guide and guardian; but, alas! for one
day only.  And, except for his good advice and kind paternal
conduct to me, it seemed at present an unlucky thing that I had
ever discovered him.  Not only through deep sense of loss and real
sorrow for him, but also because Major Hockin, however good and
great and generous, took it unreasonably into his head that I threw
him over, and threw myself (as with want of fine taste he expressed
it) into the arms of the banker.  This hurt me very much, and I
felt that Major Hockin could never have spoken so hastily unless
his hair had been originally red; and so it might be detected, even
now, where it survived itself, though blanched where he brushed it
into that pretentious ridge.  Sometimes I liked that man, when his
thoughts were large and liberal; but no sooner had he said a fine
brave thing than he seemed to have an after-thought not to go too
far with it; just as he had done about the poor robbed woman from
the steerage and the young man who pulled out his guinea.  I paid
him for my board and lodging, upon a scale settled by Uncle Sam
himself, at California prices; therefore I am under no obligation
to conceal his foibles.  But, take him altogether, he was good and
brave and just, though unable, from absence of inner light, to be
to me what Uncle Sam had been.

When I perceived that the Major condemned my simple behavior in
London, and (if I may speak it, as I said it to myself) "blew hot
and cold" in half a minute--hot when I thought of any good things
to be done, and cold as soon as he became the man to do them--also,
when I remembered what a chronic plague was now at Bruntsea, in the
shape of Sir Montague, who went to and fro, but could never be
trusted to be far off, I resolved to do what I had long been
thinking of, and believed that my guardian, if he had lived another
day, would have recommended.  I resolved to go and see Lord
Castlewood, my father's first cousin and friend in need.

When I asked my host and hostess what they thought of this, they
both declared that it was the very thing they were at the point of
advising, which, however, they had forborne from doing because I
never took advice.  At this, as being such a great exaggeration, I
could not help smiling seriously; but I could not accept their sage
opinion that, before I went to see my kinsman, I ought to write and
ask his leave to do so.  For that would have made it quite a rude
thing to call, as I must still have done, if he should decline
beforehand to receive me.  Moreover, it would look as if I sought
an invitation, while only wanting an interview.  Therefore, being
now full of money again, I hired the flyman who had made us taste
the water, and taking train at Newport, and changing at two or
three places as ordered, crossed many little streams, and came to a
fair river, which proved to be the Thames itself, a few miles above
Reading.

In spite of all the larger lessons of travel, adventure, and
tribulation, my heart was throbbing with some rather small
feelings, as for the first time I drew near to the home of my
forefathers.  I should have been sorry to find it ugly or mean, or
lying in a hole, or even modern or insignificant; and when none of
these charges could be brought against it, I was filled with highly
discreditable pain that Providence had not seen fit to issue me
into this world in the masculine form; in which case this fine
property would, according to the rules of mankind, have been mine.
However, I was very soon ashamed of such ideas, and sat down on a
bank to dispel them with the free and fair view around me.

The builder of that house knew well both where to place and how to
shape it, so as not to spoil the site.  It stood near the brow of a
bosoming hill, which sheltered it, both with wood and clevice, from
the rigor and fury of the north and east; while in front the
sloping foreground widened its soft lap of green.  In bays and
waves of rolling grass, promontoried, here and there, by jutting
copse or massive tree, and jotted now and then with cattle as calm
as boats at anchor, the range of sunny upland fell to the reedy
fringe and clustered silence of deep river meadows.  Here the
Thames, in pleasant bends of gentleness and courtesy, yet with will
of its own ways, being now a plenteous river, spreads low music,
and holds mirror to the woods and hills and fields, casting afar a
broad still gleam, and on the banks presenting tremulous infinitude
of flash.

Now these things touched me all the more because none of them
belonged to me; and, after thus trying to enlarge my views, I got
up with much better heart, and hurried on to have it over, whatever
it might be.  A girl brought up in the real English way would have
spent her last shilling to drive up to the door in the fly at the
station--a most sad machine--but I thought it no disgrace to go in
a more becoming manner.

One scarcely ever acts up to the force of situation; and I went as
quietly into that house as if it were Betsy Bowen's.  If any body
had been rude to me, or asked who I was, or a little thing of that
sort, my spirit might have been up at once, and found, as usually
happens then, good reason to go down afterward.  But happily there
was nothing of the kind.  An elderly man, without any gaudy badges,
opened the door very quietly, and begged my pardon, before I spoke,
for asking me to speak softly.  It was one of his lordship's very
worst days, and when he was so, every sound seemed to reach him.  I
took the hint, and did not speak at all, but followed him over deep
matting into a little room to which he showed me.  And then I gave
him a little note, written before I left Bruntsea, and asked him
whether he thought that his master was well enough to attend to it.

He looked at me in a peculiar manner, for he had known my father
well, having served from his youth in the family; but he only asked
whether my message was important.  I answered that it was, but that
I would wait for another time rather than do any harm.  But he said
that, however ill his master was, nothing provoked him more than to
find that any thing was neglected through it.  And before I could
speak again he was gone with my letter to Lord Castlewood.



CHAPTER XXXII

AT HOME


Some of the miserable, and I might say strange, things which had
befallen me from time to time unseasonably, now began to force
their remembrance upon me.  Such dark figures always seem to make
the most of a nervous moment, when solid reason yields to
fluttering fear and small misgivings.  There any body seems to lie,
as a stranded sailor lies, at the foot of perpendicular cliffs of
most inhuman humanity, with all the world frowning down over the
crest, and no one to throw a rope down.  Often and often had I felt
this want of any one to help me, but the only way out of it seemed
to be to do my best to help myself.

Even, now I had little hope, having been so often dashed, and
knowing that my father's cousin possessed no share of my father's
strength.  He might, at the utmost, give good advice, and help me
with kind feeling; but if he wanted to do more, surely he might
have tried ere now.  But my thoughts about this were cut short by a
message that he would be glad to see me, and I followed the servant
to the library.

Here I found Lord Castlewood sitting in a high-backed chair,
uncushioned and uncomfortable.  When he saw me near him he got up
and took my hand, and looked at me, and I was pleased to find his
face well-meaning, brave, and generous.  But even to rise from his
chair was plainly no small effort to him, and he leaned upon a
staff or crutch as he offered me a small white hand.

"Miss Castlewood," he said, with a very weak yet clear and silvery
voice, "for many years I have longed in vain and sought in vain to
hear of you.  I have not escaped all self-reproach through my sense
of want of energy; yet, such as I am, I have done my best, or I do
my best to think so."

"I am sure you have," I replied, without thinking, knowing his
kindness to my father, and feeling the shame of my own hot words to
Mr. Shovelin about him.  "I owe you more gratitude than I can tell,
for your goodness to my dear father.  I am not come now to trouble
you, but because it was my duty."

While I was speaking he managed to lead me, feebly as himself could
walk, to a deep chair for reading, or some such use, whereof I have
had few chances.  And in every step and word and gesture I
recognized that foreign grace which true-born Britons are proud to
despise on both sides of the Atlantic.  And, being in the light, I
watched him well, because I am not a foreigner.

In the clear summer light of the westering sun (which is better for
accurate uses than the radiance of the morning) I saw a firm, calm
face, which might in good health have been powerful--a face which
might be called the moonlight image of my father's.  I could not
help turning away to cry, and suspicion fled forever.

"My dear young cousin," he said, as soon as I was fit to speak to,
"your father trusted me, and so must you.  You may think that I
have forgotten you, or done very little to find you out.  It was no
indifference, no forgetfulness: I have not been able to work
myself, and I have had very deep trouble of my own."

He leaned on his staff, and looked down at me, for I had sat down
when thus overcome, and I knew that the forehead and eyes were
those of a learned and intellectual man.  How I knew this it is
impossible to say, for I never had met with such a character as
this, unless it were the Abbe of Flechon, when I was only fourteen
years old, and valued his great skill in spinning a top tenfold
more than all his deep learning.  Lord Castlewood had long, silky
hair, falling in curls of silver gray upon either side of his
beautiful forehead, and the gaze of his soft dark eyes was sad,
gentle, yet penetrating.  Weak health and almost constant pain had
chastened his delicate features to an expression almost feminine,
though firm thin lips and rigid lines showed masculine will and
fortitude.  And when he spoke of his own trouble (which, perhaps,
he would not have done except for consolation's sake), I knew that
he meant something even more grievous than bodily anguish.

"It is hard," he said, "that you, so young and healthy and full of
high spirit as you are (unless your face belies you), should begin
the best years of your life, as common opinion puts such things, in
such a cloud of gloom and shame."

"There is no shame at all," I answered; "and if there is gloom, I
am used to that; and so was my father for years and years.  What is
my trouble compared with his?"

"Your trouble is nothing when compared with his, so far as regards
the mere weight of it; but he was a strong man to carry his load;
you are a young and a sensitive woman.  The burden may even be
worse for you.  Now tell me all about yourself, and what has
brought you to me."

His voice was so quiet and soothing that I seemed to rest beneath
it.  He had not spoken once of religion or the will of God, nor
plied me at all with those pious allusions, which even to the
reverent mind are like illusions when so urged.  Lord Castlewood
had too deep a sense of the will of God to know what it is; and he
looked at me wistfully as at one who might have worse experience of
it.

Falling happily under his influence, as his clear, kind eyes met
mine, I told him every thing I could think of about my father and
myself, and all I wanted to do next, and how my heart and soul were
set upon getting to the bottom of every thing.  And while I spoke
with spirit, or softness, or, I fear, sometimes with hate, I could
not help seeing that he was surprised, but not wholly displeased,
with my energy.  And then, when all was exhausted, came the old
question I had heard so often, and found so hard to answer--

"And what do you propose to do next, Erema?"

"To go to the very place itself," I said, speaking strongly under
challenge, though quite unresolved about such a thing before; "to
live in the house where my father lived, and my mother and all of
the family died; and from day to day to search every corner and
fish up every bit of evidence, until I get hold of the true man at
last, of the villain who did it--who did it, and left my father and
all the rest of us to be condemned and die for it."

"Erema," replied my cousin, as he had told me now to call him, "you
are too impetuous for such work, and it is wholly unfit for you.
For such a task, persons of trained sagacity and keen observation
are needed.  And after all these eighteen years, or nearly nineteen
now it must be, there can not be any thing to discover there."

"But if I like, may I go there, cousin, if only to satisfy my own
mind?  I am miserable now at Bruntsea, and Sir Montague Hockin
wears me out."

"Sir Montague Hockin!" Lord Castlewood exclaimed; "why, you did not
tell me that he was there.  Wherever he is, you should not be."

"I forgot to speak of him.  He does not live there, but is
continually to and fro for bathing, or fishing, or rabbit-shooting,
or any other pretext.  And he makes the place very unpleasant to
me, kind as the Major and Mrs. Hockin are, because I can never make
him out at all."

"Do not try to do so," my cousin answered, looking at me earnestly;
"be content to know nothing of him, my dear.  If you can put up
with a very dull house, and a host who is even duller, come here
and live with me, as your father would have wished, and as I, your
nearest relative, now ask and beg of you."

This was wonderfully kind, and for a moment I felt tempted.  Lord
Castlewood being an elderly man, and, as the head of our family, my
natural protector, there could be nothing wrong, and there might be
much that was good, in such an easy arrangement.  But, on the other
hand, it seemed to me that after this my work would languish.
Living in comfort and prosperity under the roof of my forefathers,
beyond any doubt I should begin to fall into habits of luxury, to
take to the love of literature, which I knew to be latent within
me, to lose the clear, strong, practical sense of the duty for
which I, the last of seven, was spared, and in some measure,
perhaps, by wanderings and by hardships, fitted.  And then I
thought of my host's weak health, continual pain (the signs of
which were hardly repressed even while he was speaking), and
probably also his secluded life.  Was it fair to force him, by
virtue of his inborn kindness and courtesy, to come out of his
privileges and deal with me, who could not altogether be in any
place a mere nobody?  And so I refused his offer.

"I am very much obliged to you indeed," I said, "but I think you
might be sorry for it.  I will come and stop with you every now and
then, when your health is better, and you ask me.  But to live here
altogether would not do; I should like it too well, and do nothing
else."

"Perhaps you are right," he replied, with the air of one who cares
little for any thing, which is to me the most melancholy thing, and
worse than any distress almost; "you are very young, my dear, and
years should be allowed to pass before you know what full-grown
sorrow is.  You have had enough, for your age, of it.  You had
better not live in this house; it is not a house for cheerfulness."

"Then if I must neither live here nor at Bruntsea," I asked, with
sudden remonstrance, feeling as if every body desired to be quit of
me or to worry me, "to what place in all the world am I to go,
unless it is back to America?  I will go at once to Shoxford, and
take lodgings of my own."

"Perhaps you had better wait a little while," Lord Castlewood
answered, gently, "although I would much rather have you at
Shoxford than where you are at present.  But please to remember, my
good Erema, that you can not go to Shoxford all alone.  I have a
most faithful and trusty man--the one who opened the door to you.
He has been here before his remembrance.  He disdains me still as
compared with your father.  Will you have him to superintend you?
I scarcely see how you can do any good, but if you do go, you must
go openly, and as your father's daughter."

"I have no intention whatever of going in any other way, Lord
Castlewood; but perhaps," I continued, "it would be as well to make
as little stir as possible.  Of an English village I know nothing
but the little I have seen at Bruntsea, but there they make a very
great fuss about any one who comes down with a man-servant."

"To be sure," replied my cousin, with a smile; "they would not be
true Britons otherwise.  Perhaps you would do better without
Stixon; but of course you must not go alone.  Could you by any
means persuade your old nurse Betsy to go with you?"

"How good of you to think of it!--how wise you are!" I really could
not help saying, as I gazed at his delicate and noble face.  "I am
sure that if Betsy can come, she will; though of course she must be
compensated well for the waste all her lodgers will make of it.
They are very wicked, and eat most dreadfully if she even takes one
day's holiday.  What do you think they even do?  She has told me
with tears in her eyes of it.  They are all allowed a pat of
butter, a penny roll, and two sardines for breakfast.  No sooner do
they know that her back is turned--"

"Erema!" cried my cousin, with some surprise; and being so
recalled, I was ashamed.  But I never could help taking interest in
very little things indeed, until my own common-sense, or somebody
else, came to tell me what a child I was.  However, I do believe
that Uncle Sam liked me all the better for this fault.

"My dear, I did not mean to blame you," Lord Castlewood said, most
kindly; "it must be a great relief for you to look on at other
people.  But tell me--or rather, since you have told me almost
every thing you know--let me, if only in one way I can help you,
help you at least in that way."

Knowing that he must mean money, I declined, from no false pride,
but a set resolve to work out my work, if possible, through my own
resources.  But I promised to apply to him at once if scarcity
should again befall me, as had happened lately.  And then I longed
to ask him why he seemed to have so low an opinion of Sir Montague
Hockin.  That question, however, I feared to put, because it might
not be a proper one, and also because my cousin had spoken in a
very strange tone, as if of some private dislike or reserve on that
subject.  Moreover, it was too evident that I had tried his
courtesy long enough.  From time to time pale shades of bodily
pain, and then hot flushes, had flitted across his face, like
clouds on a windy summer evening.  And more than once he had
glanced at the time-piece, not to hurry me, but as if he dreaded
its announcements.  It was a beautiful clock, and struck with a
silvery sound every quarter of an hour.  And now, as I rose to say
good-by, to catch my evening train, it struck a quarter to five,
and my cousin stood up, with his weight upon his staff, and looked
at me with an inexpressible depth of weary misery.

"I have only a few minutes left," he said, "during which I can say
any thing.  My time is divided into two sad parts: the time when I
am capable of very little, and the time when I am capable of
nothing; and the latter part is twice the length of the other.  For
sixteen hours of every day, far better had I be dead than living,
so far as our own little insolence may judge.  But I speak of it
only to excuse bad manners, and perhaps I show worse by doing so.
I shall not be able to see you again until to-morrow morning.  Do
not go; they will arrange all that.  Send a note to Major Hockin by
Stixon's boy.  Stixon and Mrs. Price will see to your comfort, if
those who are free from pain require any other comfort.  Forgive
me; I did not mean to be rude.  Sometimes I can not help giving
way."

Less enviable than the poorest slave, Lord Castlewood sank upon his
hard stiff chair, and straightened his long narrow hands upon his
knees, and set his thin lips in straight blue lines.  Each hand was
as rigid as the ivory handle of an umbrella or walking-stick, and
his lips were like clamped wire.  This was his regular way of
preparing for the onset of the night, so that no grimace, no cry,
no moan, or other token of fierce agony should be wrung from him.

"My lord will catch it stiff to-night," said Mr. Stixon, who came
as I rang, and then led me away to the drawing-room; "he always
have it ten times worse after any talking or any thing to upset him
like.  And so, then, miss--excuse a humble servant--did I
understand from him that you was the Captain's own daughter?"

"Yes; but surely your master wants you--he is in such dreadful
pain.  Do please to go to him, and do something."

"There is nothing to be done, miss," Stixon answered, with calm
resignation; "he is bound to stay so for sixteen hours, and then he
eases off again.  But bless my heart, miss--excuse me in your
presence--his lordship is thoroughly used to it.  It is my certain
knowledge that for seven years now he has never had seven minutes
free from pain--seven minutes all of a heap, I mean.  Some do say,
miss, as the Lord doeth every thing according to His righteousness,
that the reason is not very far to seek."

I asked him what he meant, though I ought, perhaps, to have put a
stop to his loquacity; and he pretended not to hear, which made me
ask him all the more.

"A better man never lived than my lord," he answered, with a little
shock at my misprision; "but it has been said among censoorous
persons that nobody ever had no luck as came in suddenly to a
property and a high state of life on the top of the heads of a
family of seven."

"What a poor superstition!" I cried, though I was not quite sure of
its being a wicked one.  "But what is your master's malady, Stixon?
Surely there might be something done to relieve his violent pain,
even if there is no real cure for it?"

"No, miss, nothing can be done.  The doctors have exorced
themselves.  They tried this, that, and the other, but nature only
flew worse against them.  'Tis a thing as was never heard of till
the Constitooshon was knocked on the head and to pieces by the
Reform Bill.  And though they couldn't cure it, they done what they
could do, miss.  They discovered a very good name for it--they
christened it the 'New-rager!'"



CHAPTER XXXIII

LORD CASTLEWOOD


In the morning, when I was called again to see my afflicted cousin--
Stixon junior having gladly gone to explain things for me at
Bruntsea--little as I knew of any bodily pain (except hunger, or
thirst, or weariness, and once in my life a headache), I stood
before Lord Castlewood with a deference and humility such as I had
never felt before toward any human being.  Not only because he bore
perpetual pain in the two degrees of night and day--the day being
dark and the night jet-black--without a murmur or an evil word; not
only because through the whole of this he had kept his mind clear
and his love of knowledge bright; not even because he had managed,
like Job, to love God through the whole of it.  All these were good
reasons for very great and very high respect of any man; and when
there was no claim whatever on his part to any such feeling, it
needs must come.  But when I learned another thing, high respect at
once became what might be called deep reverence.  And this came to
pass in a simple and, as any one must confess, quite inevitable
way.

It was not to be supposed that I could sit the whole of my first
evening in that house without a soul to speak to.  So far as my
dignity and sense of right permitted, I wore out Mr. Stixon, so far
as he would go, not asking him any thing that the very worst-minded
person could call "inquisitive," but allowing him to talk, as he
seemed to like to do, while he waited upon me, and alternately
lamented my hapless history and my hopeless want of taste.

"Ah, your father, the Captain, now, he would have knowed what this
is!  You've no right to his eyes, Miss Erma, without his tongue and
palate.  No more of this, miss! and done for you a-purpose!  Well,
cook will be put out, and no mistake!  I better not let her see it
go down, anyhow."  And the worthy man tearfully put some dainty by,
perhaps without any view to his own supper.

"Lord Castlewood spoke to me about a Mrs. Price--the housekeeper,
is she not?" I asked at last, being so accustomed to like what I
could get, that the number of dishes wearied me.

"Oh yes, miss," said Stixon, very shortly, as if that description
exhausted Mrs. Price.

"If she is not too busy, I should like to see her as soon as these
things are all taken away.  I mean if she is not a stranger, and if
she would like to see me."

"No new-comers here," Mr. Stixon replied; "we all works our way up
regular, the same as my lad is beginning for to do.  New-fangled
ways is not accepted here.  We puts the reforming spirits scrubbing
of the steps till their knuckles is cracked and their knees like a
bean.  The old lord was the man for discipline--your grandfather,
if you please, miss.  He catched me when I were about that high--"

"Excuse me, Mr. Stixon; but would he have encouraged you to talk as
you so very kindly talk to me, instead of answering a question?"

I thought that poor Stixon would have been upset by this, and was
angry with myself for saying it; but instead of being hurt, he only
smiled and touched his forehead.

"Well, now, you did remind me uncommon of him then, miss.  I could
have heard the old lord speak almost, though he were always harsh
and distant.  And as I was going for to say, he catched me fifty
years agone next Lammas-tide; a pear-tree of an early sort it was;
you may see the very tree if you please to stand here, miss, though
the pears is quite altered now, and scarcely fit to eat.  Well, I
was running off with my cap chock-full, miss--"

"Please to keep that story for another time," I said; "I shall be
most happy to hear it then.  But I have a particular wish, if you
please, to see Mrs. Price before dark, unless there is any good
reason why I should not."

"Oh no, Miss Erma, no reason at all.  Only please to bear in mind,
miss, that she is a coorous woman.  She is that jealous, and I
might say forward--"

"Then she is capable of speaking for herself."

"You are right, miss, there, and no mistake.  She can speak for
herself and for fifty others--words enough, I mean, for all of
them.  But I would not have her know for all the world that I said
it."

"Then if you do not send her to me at once, the first thing I shall
do will be to tell her."

"Oh no, miss, none of your family would do that; that never has
been done anonymous."

I assured him that my threat was not in earnest, but of pure
impatience.  And having no motive but downright jealousy for
keeping Mrs. Price from me, he made up his mind at last to let her
come.  But he told me to be careful what I said; I must not expect
it to be at all like talking to himself, for instance.

The housekeeper came up at last, by dint of my persistence, and she
stopped in the doorway and made me a courtesy, which put me out of
countenance, for nobody ever does that in America, and scarcely any
one in England now, except in country-dancing.  Instead of being as
described by Stixon, Mrs. Price was of a very quiet, sensible, and
respectful kind.  She was rather short, but looked rather tall,
from her even walk and way of carrying her head.  Her figure was
neat, and her face clear-spoken, with straight pretty eyebrows, and
calm bright eyes.  I felt that I could tell her almost any thing,
and she would think before she talked of it.  And in my strong want
of some woman to advise with--Betsy Bowen being very good but very
narrow, and Mrs. Hockin a mere echo of the Major until he
contradicted her, and Suan Isco, with her fine, large views, five
thousand miles out of sight just now--this was a state of things to
enhance the value of any good countenance feminine.

At any rate, I was so glad to see her that, being still ungraduated
in the steps of rank (though beginning to like a good footing
there), I ran up and took her by both hands, and fetched her out of
her grand courtesy and into a low chair.  At this she was
surprised, as one quick glance showed; and she thought me, perhaps,
what is called in England "an impulsive creature."  This put me
again upon my dignity, for I never have been in any way like that,
and I clearly perceived that she ought to understand a little more
distinctly my character.

It is easy to begin with this intention, but very hard indeed to
keep it up when any body of nice ways and looks is sitting with a
proper deferential power of listening, and liking one's young
ideas, which multiply and magnify themselves at each demand.  So
after some general talk about the weather, the country, the house,
and so on, we came to the people of the house, or at any rate the
chief person.  And I asked her a few quiet questions about Lord
Castlewood's health and habits, and any thing else she might like
to tell me.  For many things had seemed to me a little strange and
out of the usual course, and on that account worthy to be spoken of
without common curiosity.  Mrs. Price told me that there were many
things generally divulged and credited, which therefore lay in her
power to communicate without any derogation from her office.  Being
pleased with these larger words (which I always have trouble in
pronouncing), I asked her whether there was any thing else.  And
she answered yes, but unhappily of a nature to which it was
scarcely desirable to allude in my presence.  I told her that this
was not satisfactory, and I might say quite the opposite; that
having "alluded" to whatever it might be, she was bound to tell me
all about it.  That I had lived in very many countries, in all of
which wrong things continually went on, of which I continually
heard just in that sort of way and no more.  Enough to make one
uncomfortable, but not enough to keep one instructed and vigilant
as to things that ought to be avoided.  Upon this she yielded
either to my arguments or to her own dislike of unreasonable
silence, and gave me the following account of the misfortunes of
Lord Castlewood:

Herbert William Castlewood was the third son of Dean Castlewood, a
younger brother of my grandfather, and was born in the year 1806.
He was older, therefore, than my father, but still (even before my
father's birth, which provided a direct heir) there were many lives
betwixt him and the family estates.  And his father, having as yet
no promotion in the Church, found it hard to bring up his children.
The eldest son got a commission in the army, and the second entered
the navy, while Herbert was placed in a bank at Bristol--not at all
the sort of life which he would have chosen.  But being of a
gentle, unselfish nature, as well as a weak constitution, he put up
with his state in life, and did his best to give satisfaction.

This calm courage generally has its reward, and in the year 1842,
not very long before the death of my grandfather at Shoxford, Mr.
Herbert Castlewood, being well-connected, well-behaved, diligent,
and pleasing, obtained a partnership in the firm, which was,
perhaps, the foremost in the west of England.  His two elder
brothers happened then to be at home, Major and Commander
Castlewood, each of whom had seen very hard service, and found it
still harder slavery to make both ends meet, although bachelors.
But, returning full of glory, they found one thing harder still,
and that was to extract any cash from their father, the highly
venerated Dean, who in that respect, if in no other, very closely
resembled the head of the family.  Therefore these brave men
resolved to go and see their Bristol brother, to whom they were
tenderly attached, and who now must have money enough and to spare.
So they wrote to their brother to meet them on the platform,
scarcely believing that they could be there in so short a time from
London; for they never had travelled by rail before; and they set
forth in wonderful spirits, and laughed at the strange, giddy rush
of the travelling, and made bets with each other about punctual
time (for trains kept much better time while new), and, as long as
they could time it, they kept time to a second.  But, sad to
relate, they wanted no chronometers when they arrived at Bristol,
both being killed at a blow, with their watches still going, and a
smile on their faces.  For the train had run into a wall of Bath
stone, and several of the passengers were killed.

The sight of his two brothers carried out like this, after so many
years of not seeing them, was too much for Mr. Herbert Castlewood's
nerves, which always had been delicate.  And he shivered all the
more from reproach of conscience, having made up his mind not to
lend them any money, as a practical banker was compelled to do.
And from that very moment he began to feel great pain.

Mrs. Price assured me that the doctors all agreed that nothing but
change of climate could restore Mr. Castlewood's tone and system,
and being full of art (though so simple, as she said, which she
could not entirely reconcile), he set off for Italy, and there he
stopped, with the good leave of his partners, being now valued
highly as heir to the Dean, who was known to have put a good trifle
together.  And in Italy my father must have found him, as related
by Mr. Shovelin, and there received kindness and comfort in his
trouble, if trouble so deep could be comforted.

Now I wondered and eagerly yearned to know whether my father, at
such a time, and in such a state of loneliness, might not have been
led to impart to his cousin and host and protector the dark mystery
which lay at the bottom of his own conduct.  Knowing how resolute
and stern he was, and doubtless then imbittered by the wreck of
love and life, I thought it more probable that he had kept silence
even toward so near a relative, especially as he had seen very
little of his cousin Herbert till he had found him thus.  Moreover,
my grandfather and the Dean had spent little brotherly love on each
other, having had a life-long feud about a copy-hold furze brake of
nearly three-quarters of an acre, as Betsy remembered to have heard
her master say.

To go on, however, with what Mrs. Price was saying.  She knew
scarcely any thing about my father, because she was too young at
that time to be called into the counsels of the servants' hall, for
she scarcely was thirty-five yet, as she declared, and she
certainly did not look forty.  But all about the present Lord
Castlewood she knew better than any body else, perhaps, because she
had been in the service of his wife, and, indeed, her chief
attendant.  Then, having spoken of her master's wife, Mrs. Price
caught herself up, and thenceforth called her only his "lady."

Mr. Herbert Castlewood, who had minded his business for so many
years, and kept himself aloof from ladies, spending all his leisure
in good literature, at this time of life and in this state of
health (for the shock he had received struck inward), fell into an
accident tenfold worse--the fatal accident of love.  And this
malady raged the more powerfully with him on account of breaking
out so late in life.  In one of the picture-galleries at Florence,
or some such place, Mrs. Price declared, he met with a lady who
made all the pictures look cold and dull and dead to him.  A lovely
young creature she must have been (as even Mrs. Price, who detested
her, acknowledged), and to the eyes of a learned but not keen man
as good as lovely.  My father was gone to look after me, and fetch
me out of England, but even if he had been there, perhaps he
scarcely could have stopped it; for this Mr. Castlewood, although
so quiet, had the family fault of tenacity.

Mrs. Price, being a very steady person, with a limited income, and
enough to do, was inclined to look down upon the state of mind in
which Mr. Castlewood became involved.  She was not there at the
moment, of course, but suddenly sent for when all was settled;
nevertheless, she found out afterward how it began from her
master's man, through what he had for dinner.  And in the kitchen-
garden at Castlewood no rampion would she allow while she lived.  I
asked her whether she had no pity, no sympathy, no fine feeling,
and how she could have become Mrs. Price if she never had known
such sentiments.  But she said that they only called her "Mistress"
on account of her authority, and she never had been drawn to the
opposite sex, though many times asked in marriage.  And what she
had seen of matrimony led her far away from it.  I was sorry to
hear her say this, and felt damped, till I thought that the world
was not all alike.

Then she told me, just as if it were no more than a bargain for a
pound of tallow candles, how Mr. Herbert Castlewood, patient and
persistent, was kept off and on for at least two years by the
mother of his sweet idol.  How the old lady held a balance in her
mind as to the likelihood of his succession, trying, through
English friends, to find the value and the course of property.  Of
what nation she was, Mrs. Price could not say, and only knew that
it must be a bad one.  She called herself the Countess of Ixorism,
as truly pronounced in English; and she really was of good family
too, so far as any foreigner can be.  And her daughter's name was
Flittamore, not according to the right spelling, perhaps, but
pronounced with the proper accent.

Flittamore herself did not seem to care, according to what Mrs.
Price had been told, but left herself wholly in her mother's hands,
being sure of her beauty still growing upon her, and desiring to
have it admired and praised.  And the number of foreigners she
always had about her sometimes made her real lover nearly give her
up.  But, alas! he was not quite wise enough for this, with all
that he had read and learned and seen.  Therefore, when it was
reported from Spain that my father had been killed by bandits--the
truth being that he was then in Greece--the Countess at last
consented to the marriage of her daughter with Herbert Castlewood,
and even seemed to press it forward for some reasons of her own.
And the happy couple set forth upon their travels, and Mrs. Price
was sent abroad to wait upon the lady.

For a few months they seemed to get on very well, Flittamore
showing much affection for her husband, whose age was a trifle more
than her own doubled, while he was entirely wrapped up in her, and
labored that the graces of her mind might be worthy to compare with
those more visible.  But her spiritual face and most sweet poetic
eyes were vivid with bodily brilliance alone.  She had neither mind
enough to learn, nor heart enough to pretend to learn.

It is out of my power to describe such things, even if it were my
duty to do so, which, happily, it has never been; moreover, Mrs.
Price, in what she told me, exercised a just and strict reserve.
Enough that Mr. Castlewood's wedded life was done with in six
months and three days.  Lady Castlewood, as she would be called,
though my father still was living and his cousin disclaimed the
title--away she ran from some dull German place, after a very stiff
lesson in poetry, and with her ran off a young Englishman, the
present Sir Montague Hockin.  He was Mr. Hockin then, and had not a
half-penny of his own; but Flittamore met that difficulty by
robbing her husband to his last farthing.

This had happened about twelve years back, soon after I was placed
at the school in Languedoc, to which I was taken so early in life
that I almost forget all about it.  But it might have been better
for poor Flittamore if she had been brought up at a steady place
like that, with sisters and ladies of retreat, to teach her the
proper description of her duties to mankind.  I seemed now in my
own mind to condemn her quite enough, feeling how superior her
husband must have been; but Mrs. Price went even further, and
became quite indignant that any one should pity her.

"A hussy! a hussy! a poppet of a hussy!" she exclaimed, with
greater power than her quiet face could indicate; "never would I
look at her.  Speak never so, Miss Castlewood.  My lord is the very
best of all men, and she has made him what he is.  The pity she
deserves is to be trodden under foot, as I saw them do in Naples."

After all the passion I had seen among rough people, I scarcely
could help trembling at the depth of wrath dissembled and firmly
controlled in calm clear eyes under very steadfast eyebrows.  It
was plain that Lord Castlewood had, at any rate, the gift of being
loved by his dependents.

"I hope that he took it aright!" I cried, catching some of her
indignation; "I hope that he cast her to the winds, without even a
sigh for such a cruel creature!"

"He was not strong enough," she answered, sadly; "his bodily health
was not equal to it.  From childhood he had been partly crippled
and spoiled in his nerves by an accident.  And the shock of that
sight at Bristol flew to his weakness, and was too much for him.
And now this third and worst disaster, coming upon him where his
best hope lay, and at such a time of life, took him altogether off
his legs.  And off his head too, I might almost say, miss; for,
instead of blaming her, he put the fault entirely upon himself.  At
his time of life, and in such poor health, he should not have
married a bright young girl: how could he ever hope to make her
happy?  That was how he looked at it, when he should have sent
constables after her."

"And what became of her--the mindless animal, to forsake so good
and great a man!  I do hope she was punished, and that vile man
too."

"She was, Miss Castlewood; but he was not; at least he has not
received justice yet.  But he will, he will, he will, miss.  The
treacherous thief!  And my lord received him as a young fellow-
countryman under a cloud, and lent him money, and saved him from
starving; for he had broken with his father and was running from
his creditors."

"Tell me no more," I said; "not another word.  It is my fate to
meet that--well, that gentleman--almost every day.  And he, and he--
oh, how thankful I am to have found out all this about him!"

The above will show why, when I met my father's cousin on the
following morning--with his grand, calm face, as benevolent as if
he had passed a night of luxurious rest instead of sleepless agony--
I knew myself to be of a lower order in mind and soul and heart
than his; a small, narrow, passionate girl, in the presence of a
large, broad-sighted, and compassionate man.

I threw myself altogether on his will; for, when I trust, I trust
wholly.  And, under his advice, I did not return with any rash
haste to Bruntsea, but wrote in discharge of all duty there; while
Mrs. Price, a clear and steadfast woman, was sent to London to see
Wilhelmina Strouss.  These two must have had very great talks
together, and, both being zealous and faithful, they came to many
misunderstandings.  However, on the whole, they became very honest
friends, and sworn allies at last, discovering more, the more they
talked, people against whom they felt a common and just enmity.



CHAPTER XXXIV

SHOXFORD


Are there people who have never, in the course of anxious life,
felt desire to be away, to fly away, from every thing, however good
and dear to them, and rest a little, and think new thought, or let
new thought flow into them, from the gentle air of some new place,
where nobody has heard of them--a place whose cares, being felt by
proxy, almost seem romantic, and where the eyes spare brain and
heart with a critic's self-complacence?  If any such place yet
remains, the happy soul may seek it in an inland English village.

A village where no billows are to stun or to confound it, no crag
or precipice to trouble it with giddiness, and where no hurry of
restless tide makes time, its own father, uneasy.  But in the
quiet, at the bottom of the valley, a beautiful rivulet, belonging
to the place, hastens or lingers, according to its mood; hankering
here and there, not to be away yet; and then, by the doing of its
own work, led to a swift perplexity of ripples.  Here along its
side, and there softly leaning over it, fresh green meadows lie
reposing in the settled meaning of the summer day.  For this is a
safer time of year than the flourish of the spring-tide, when the
impulse of young warmth awaking was suddenly smitten by the bleak
east wind, and cowslip and cuckoo-flower and speedwell got their
bright lips browned with cold.  Then, moreover, must the meads have
felt the worry of scarcely knowing yet what would be demanded of
them; whether to carry an exacting load of hay, or only to feed a
few sauntering cows.

But now every trouble has been settled for the best; the long grass
is mown, and the short grass browsed, and capers of the fairies and
caprices of the cows have dappled worn texture with a deeper green.
Therefore let eyes that are satisfied here--as any but a very bad
eye must be, with so many changes of softness--follow the sweet
lead of the valley; and there, in a bend of the gently brawling
river, stands the never-brawling church.

A church less troubled with the gift of tongues is not to be found
in England: a church of gray stone that crumbles just enough to
entice frail mortal sympathy, and confesses to the storms it has
undergone in a tone that conciliates the human sigh.  The tower is
large, and high enough to tell what the way of the wind is without
any potato-bury on the top, and the simple roof is not cruciated
with tiles of misguided fancy.  But gray rest, and peace of ages,
and content of lying calmly six feet deeper than the bustle of the
quick; memory also, and oblivion, following each other slowly, like
the shadows of the church-yard trees--for all of these no better
place can be, nor softer comfort.

For the village of Shoxford runs up on the rise, and straggles away
from its burial-place, as a child from his school goes mitching.
There are some few little ups and downs in the manner of its
building, as well as in other particulars about it; but still it
keeps as parallel with the crooked river as the far more crooked
ways of men permit.  But the whole of the little road of houses
runs down the valley from the church-yard gate; and above the
church, looking up the pretty valley, stands nothing but the mill
and the plank bridge below it; and a furlong above that again the
stone bridge, where the main road crosses the stream, and is
consoled by leading to a big house--the Moonstock Inn.

The house in which my father lived so long--or rather, I should
say, my mother, while he was away with his regiment--and where we
unfortunate seven saw the light, stands about half-way down the
little village, being on the right-hand side of the road as you
come down the valley from the Moonstock bridge.  Therefore it is on
the further and upper side of the street--if it can be called a
street--from the valley and the river and the meads below the mill,
inasmuch as every bit of Shoxford, and every particle of the parish
also, has existence--of no mean sort, as compared with other
parishes, in its own esteem--on the right side of the river Moon.

My father's house, in this good village, standing endwise to the
street, was higher at one end than at the other.  That is to say,
the ground came sloping, or even falling, as fairly might be said,
from one end to the other of it, so that it looked like a Noah's
ark tilted by Behemoth under the stern-post.  And a little lane,
from a finely wooded hill, here fell steeply into the "High Street"
(as the grocer and the butcher loved to call it), and made my
father's house most distinct, by obeying a good deal of its
outline, and discharging in heavy rain a free supply of water under
the weather-board of our front-door.  This front-door opened on the
little steep triangle formed by the meeting of lane and road, while
the back-door led into a long but narrow garden running along the
road, but raised some feet above it; the bank was kept up by a
rough stone wall crested with stuck-up snap-dragon and valerian,
and faced with rosettes and disks and dills of houseleek,
pennywort, and hart's-tongue.

Betsy and I were only just in time to see the old house as it used
to be; for the owner had died about half a year ago, and his
grandson, having proved his will, was resolved to make short work
with it.  The poor house was blamed for the sorrows it had
sheltered, and had the repute of two spectres, as well as the pale
shadow of misfortune.  For my dear father was now believed by the
superstitious villagers to haunt the old home of his happiness and
love, and roam from room to room in search of his wife and all his
children.  But his phantom was most careful not to face that of his
father, which stalked along haughtily, as behooved a lord, and
pointed forever to a red wound in its breast.  No wonder,
therefore, that the house would never let; and it would have been
pulled down long ago if the owner had not felt a liking for it,
through memories tender and peculiar to himself.  His grandson,
having none of these to contend with, resolved to make a mere
stable of it, and build a public-house at the bottom of the garden,
and turn the space between them into skittle-ground, and so forth.

To me this seemed such a very low idea, and such a desecration of a
sacred spot, that if I had owned any money to be sure of, I would
have offered hundreds to prevent it.  But I found myself now in a
delicate state of mind concerning money, having little of my own,
and doubting how much other people might intend for me.  So that I
durst not offer to buy land and a house without any means to pay.

And it was not for that reason only that Betsy and I kept ourselves
quiet.  We knew that any stir in this little place about us--such
as my name might at once set going--would once for all destroy all
hope of doing good by coming.  Betsy knew more of such matters than
I did, besides all her knowledge of the place itself, and her great
superiority of age; therefore I left to her all little management,
as was in every way fair and wise.  For Mrs. Strouss had forsaken a
large and good company of lodgers, with only Herr Strouss to look
after them--and who was he among them?  If she trod on one side of
her foot, or felt a tingling in her hand, or a buzzing in her ear,
she knew in a moment what it was--of pounds and pounds was she
being cheated, a hundred miles off, by foreigners!

For this reason it had cost much persuasion and many appeals to her
faithfulness, as well as considerable weekly payment, ere ever my
good nurse could be brought away from London; and perhaps even so
she never would have come if I had not written myself to Mrs.
Price, then visiting Betsy in European Square, that if the landlady
was too busy to be spared by her lodgers, I must try to get Lord
Castlewood to spare me his housekeeper.  Upon this Mrs. Strouss at
once declared that Mrs. Price would ruin every thing; and rather
than that--no matter what she lost--she herself would go with me.
And so she did, and she managed very well, keeping my name out of
sight (for, happen what might, I would have no false one); and she
got quiet lodgings in her present name, which sounded nicely
foreign; and the village being more agitated now about my father's
material house, and the work they were promised in pulling it down,
than about his shattered household, we had a very favorable time
for coming in, and were pronounced to be foreigners who must not be
allowed to run up bills.

This rustic conclusion suited us quite well, and we soon confirmed
it unwittingly, Betsy offering a German thaler and I an American
dollar at the shop of the village chandler and baker, so that we
were looked upon with some pity, and yet a kind desire for our
custom.  Thus, without any attempt of ours at either delusion or
mystery, Mrs. Strouss was hailed throughout the place as "Madam
Straw," while I, through the sagacity of a deeply read shoe-maker,
obtained a foreign name, as will by-and-by appear.

We lodged at the post-office, not through any wisdom or even any
thought on our part, but simply because we happened there to find
the cleanest and prettiest rooms in the place.  For the sun being
now in the height of August, and having much harvest to ripen, at
middle day came ramping down the little street of Shoxford like the
chairman of the guild of bakers.  Every house having lately
brightened up its whitewash--which they always do there when the
frosts are over, soon after the feast of St. Barnabas--and the
weeds of the way having fared amiss in the absence of any water-
cart, it was not in the strong, sharp character of the sun to miss
such an opportunity.  After the red Californian glare, I had no
fear of any English sun; but Betsy was frightened, and both of us
were glad to get into a little place sheltered by green blinds.
This chanced to be the post-office, and there we found nice
lodgings.

By an equal chance this proved to be the wisest thing we could
possibly have done, if we had set about it carefully.  For why,
that nobody ever would impute any desire of secrecy to people who
straightway unpacked their boxes at the very head-quarters of all
the village news.  And the mistress of the post was a sharp-tongued
woman, pleased to speak freely of her neighbors' doings, and prompt
with good advice that they should heed their own business, if any
of them durst say a word about her own.  She kept a tidy little
shop, showing something of almost every thing; but we had a side
door, quite of our own, where Betsy met the baker's wife and the
veritable milkman; and neither of them knew her, which was just
what she had hoped; and yet it made her speak amiss of them.

But if all things must be brought to the harsh test of dry reason,
I myself might be hard pushed to say what good I hoped to do by
coming thus to Shoxford.  I knew of a great many things, for
certain, that never had been thoroughly examined here; also I
naturally wished to see, being a native, what the natives were;
and, much more than that, it was always on my mind that here lay my
mother and the other six of us.

Therefore it was an impatient thing for me to hear Betsy working
out the afternoon with perpetual chatter and challenge of prices,
combating now as a lodger all those points which as a landlady she
never would allow even to be moot questions.  If any applicant in
European Square had dared so much as hint at any of all the
requirements which she now expected gratis, she would simply have
whisked her duster, and said that the lodgings for such people must
be looked for down the alley.  However, Mrs. Busk, our new
landlady, although she had a temper of her own (as any one keeping
a post-office must have) was forced by the rarity of lodgers here
to yield many points, which Mrs. Strouss, on her own boards, would
not even have allowed to be debated.  All this was entirely against
my wish; for when I have money, I spend it, finding really no other
good in it; but Betsy told me that the purest principle of all was--
not to be cheated.

So I left her to have these little matters out, and took that
occasion for stealing away (as the hours grew on toward evening) to
a place where I wished to be quite alone.  And the shadow of the
western hills shed peace upon the valley, when I crossed a little
stile leading into Shoxford church-yard.

For a minute or two I was quite afraid, seeing nobody any where
about, nor even hearing any sound in the distance to keep me
company.  For the church lay apart from the village, and was
thickly planted out from it, the living folk being full of
superstition, and deeply believing in the dead people's ghosts.
And even if this were a wife to a husband, or even a husband
reappearing to his wife, there was not a man or a woman in the
village that would not run away from it.

This I did not know at present, not having been there long enough;
neither had I any terror of that sort, not being quite such a
coward, I should hope.  But still, as the mantles of the cold trees
darkened, and the stony remembrance of the dead grew pale, and of
the living there was not even the whistle of a grave-digger--my
heart got the better of my mind for a moment, and made me long to
be across that stile again.  Because (as I said to myself) if there
had been a hill to go up, that would be so different and so easy;
but going down into a place like this, whence the only escape must
be by steps, and where any flight must be along channels that run
in and out of graves and tombstones, I tried not to be afraid, yet
could not altogether help it.

But lo! when I came to the north side of the tower, scarcely
thinking what to look for, I found myself in the middle of a place
which made me stop and wonder.  Here were six little grassy
tuffets, according to the length of children, all laid east and
west, without any stint of room, harmoniously.

From the eldest to the youngest, one could almost tell the age at
which their lowly stature stopped, and took its final measurement.

And in the middle was a larger grave, to comfort and encourage
them, as a hen lies down among her chicks and waits for them to
shelter.  Without a name to any of them, all these seven graves lay
together, as in a fairy ring of rest, and kind compassion had
prevented any stranger from coming to be buried there.

I would not sit on my mother's grave for fear of crushing the
pretty grass, which some one tended carefully; but I stood at its
foot, and bent my head, and counted all the little ones.  Then I
thought of my father in the grove of peaches, more than six
thousand miles away, on the banks of the soft Blue River.  And a
sense of desolate sorrow and of the blessing of death overwhelmed
me.



CHAPTER XXXV

THE SEXTON


With such things in my mind, it took me long to come back to my
work again.  It even seemed a wicked thing, so near to all these
proofs of God's great visitation over us, to walk about and say, "I
will do this," or even to think, "I will try to do that."  My own
poor helplessness, and loss of living love to guide me, laid upon
my heart a weight from which it scarcely cared to move.  All was
buried, all was done with, all had passed from out the world, and
left no mark but graves behind.  What good to stir anew such
sadness, even if a poor weak thing like me could move its mystery?

Time, however, and my nurse Betsy, and Jacob Rigg the gardener,
brought me back to a better state of mind, and renewed the right
courage within me.  But, first of all, Jacob Rigg aroused my terror
and interest vividly.  It may be remembered that this good man had
been my father's gardener at the time of our great calamity, and
almost alone of the Shoxford people had shown himself true and
faithful.  Not that the natives had turned against us, or been at
all unfriendly; so far from this was the case, that every one felt
for our troubles, and pitied us, my father being of a cheerful and
affable turn, until misery hardened him; but what I mean is that
only one or two had the courage to go against the popular
conclusion and the convictions of authority.

But Jacob was a very upright man, and had a strong liking for his
master, who many and many a time--as he told me--had taken a spade
and dug along with him, just as if he were a jobbing gardener born,
instead of a fine young nobleman; "and nobody gifted with that turn
of mind, likewise very clever in white-spine cowcumbers, could ever
be relied upon to go and shoot his father."  Thus reasoned old
Jacob, and he always had done so, and meant evermore to abide by
it; and the graves which he had tended now for nigh a score of
years, and meant to tend till he called for his own, were--as sure
as he stood there in Shoxford church-yard a-talking to me, who was
the very image of my father, God bless me, though not of course so
big like--the graves of slaughtered innocents, and a mother who was
always an angel.  And the parson might preach forever to him about
the resurrection, and the right coming uppermost when you got to
heaven, but to his mind that was scarcely any count at all; and if
you came to that, we ought to hang Jack Ketch, as might come to
pass in the Revelations.  But while a man had got his own bread to
earn, till his honor would let him go to the work-house, and his
duty to the rate-payers, there was nothing that vexed him more than
to be told any texts of Holy Scripture.  Whatever God Almighty had
put down there was meant for ancient people, the Jews being long
the most ancient people, though none the more for that did he like
them; and so it was mainly the ancient folk, who could not do a
day's work worth eighteenpence, that could enter into Bible
promises.  Not that he was at all behindhand about interpretation;
but as long as he could fetch and earn, at planting box and doing
borders, two shillings and ninepence a day and his beer, he was not
going to be on for kingdom come.

I told him that I scarcely thought his view of our condition here
would be approved by wise men who had found time to study the
subject.  But he answered that whatever their words might be, their
doings showed that they knew what was the first thing to attend to.
And if it ever happened him to come across a parson who was as full
of heaven outside as he was inside his surplice, he would keep his
garden in order for nothing better than his blessing.

I knew of no answer to be made to this.  And indeed he seemed to be
aware that his conversation was too deep for me; so he leaned upon
his spade, and rubbed his long blue chin in the shadow of the
church tower, holding as he did the position of sexton, and
preparing even now to dig a grave.

"I keeps them well away from you," he said, as he began to chop out
a new oblong in the turf; "many a shilling have I been offered by
mothers about their little ones, to put 'em inside of the 'holy
ring,' as we calls this little cluster; but not for five golden
guineas would I do it, and have to face the Captain, dead or alive,
about it.  We heard that he was dead, because it was put in all the
papers; and a pleasant place I keeps for him, to come home
alongside of his family.  A nicer gravelly bit of ground there
couldn't be in all the county; and if no chance of him occupying
it, I can drive down a peg with your mark, miss."

"Thank you," I answered; "you are certainly most kind; but, Mr.
Rigg, I would rather wait a little.  I have had a very troublesome
life thus far, and nothing to bind me to it much; but still I would
rather not have my peg driven down just--just at present."

"Ah, you be like all the young folk that think the tree for their
coffins ain't come to the size of this spade handle yet.  Lord
bless you for not knowing what He hath in hand!  Now this one you
see me a-raising of the turf for, stood as upright as you do, a
fortnight back, and as good about the chest and shoulders, and
three times the color in her cheeks, and her eyes a'most as bright
as yourn be.  Not aristocratic, you must understand me, miss, being
only the miller's daughter, nor instructed to throw her voice the
same as you do, which is better than gallery music; but setting
these haxidents to one side, a farmer would have said she was more
preferable, because more come-at-able, though not in my opinion to
be compared--excuse me for making so free, miss, but when it comes
to death we has a kind of right to do it--and many a young farmer,
coming to the mill, was disturbed in his heart about her, and far
and wide she was known, being proud, as the Beauty of the
Moonshine, from the name of our little river.  She used to call me
'Jacob Diggs,' because of my porochial office, with a meaning of a
joke on my parenshal name.  Ah, what a merry one she were!  And now
this is what I has to do for her!  And sooner would I 'a doed it
a'most for my own old ooman!"

"Oh, Jacob!" I cried, being horrified at the way in which he tore
up the ground, as if his wife was waiting, "the things you say are
quite wrong, I am sure, for a man in your position.  You are
connected with this church almost as much as the clerk is."

"More, miss, ten times more!  He don't do nothing but lounge on the
front of his desk, and be too lazy to keep up 'Amen,' while I at my
time of life go about, from Absolution to the fifth Lord's prayer,
with a stick that makes my rheumatics worse, for the sake of the
boys with their pocket full of nuts.  When I was a boy there was no
nuts, except at the proper time of year, a month or two on from
this time of speaking; and we used to crack they in the husk, and
make no noise to disturb the congregation; but now it is nuts,
nuts, round nuts, flat nuts, nuts with three corners to them--all
the year round nuts to crack, and me to find out who did it!"

"But, Mr. Rigg," I replied, as he stopped, looking hotter in mind
than in body, "is it not Mrs. Rigg, your good wife, who sells all
the nuts on a Saturday for the boys to crack on a Sunday?"

"My missus do sell some, to be sure; yes, just a few.  But not of a
Saturday more than any other day."

"Then surely, Mr. Rigg, you might stop it, by not permitting any
sale of nuts except to good boys of high principles.  And has it
not happened sometimes, Mr. Rigg, that boys have made marks on
their nuts, and bought them again at your shop on a Monday?  I
mean, of course, when your duty has compelled you to empty the
pockets of a boy in church."

Now this was a particle of shamefully small gossip, picked up
naturally by my Betsy, but pledged to go no further; and as soon as
I had spoken I became a little nervous, having it suddenly brought
to my mind that I had promised not even to whisper it; and now I
had told it to the man of all men!  But Jacob appeared to have been
quite deaf, and diligently went on digging.  And I said "good-
evening," for the grave was for the morrow; and he let me go nearly
to the stile before he stuck his spade into the ground and
followed.

"Excoose of my making use," he said, "of a kind of a personal
reference, miss; but you be that pat with your answers, it maketh
me believe you must be sharp inside--more than your father, the
poor Captain, were, as all them little grass buttons argueth.  Now,
miss, if I thought you had head-piece enough to keep good counsel
and ensue it, maybe I could tell you a thing as would make your
hair creep out of them coorous hitch-ups, and your heart a'most
bust them there braids of fallallies."

"Why, what in the world do you mean?" I asked, being startled by
the old man's voice and face.

"Nothing, miss, nothing.  I was only a-joking.  If you bain't come
to no more discretion than that--to turn as white as the clerk's
smock-frock of a Easter-Sunday--why, the more of a joke one has,
the better, to bring your purty color back to you.  Ah!  Polly of
the mill was the maid for color--as good for the eyesight as a
chaney-rose in April.  Well, well, I must get on with her grave;
they're a-coming to speak the good word over un on sundown."

He might have known how this would vex and perplex me.  I could not
bear to hinder him in his work--as important as any to be done by
man for man--and yet it was beyond my power to go home and leave
him there, and wonder what it was that he had been so afraid to
tell.  So I quietly said, "Then I will wish you a very good evening
again, Mr. Rigg, as you are too busy to be spoken with."  And I
walked off a little way, having met with men who, having begun a
thing, needs must have it out, and fully expecting him to call me
back.  But Jacob only touched his hat, and said, "A pleasant
evening to you, ma'am."

Nothing could have made me feel more resolute than this did.  I did
not hesitate one moment in running back over the stile again, and
demanding of Jacob Rigg that he should tell me whether he meant any
thing or nothing; for I was not to be played with about important
matters, like the boys in the church who were cracking nuts.

"Lord!  Lord, now!" he said, with his treddled heel scraping the
shoulder of his shining spade; "the longer I live in this world,
the fitter I grow to get into the ways of the Lord.  His ways are
past finding out, saith King David: but a man of war, from his
youth upward, hath no chance such as a gardening man hath.  What a
many of them have I found out!"

"What has that got to do with it!" I cried.  "Just tell me what it
was you were speaking of just now."

"I was just a-thinking, when I looked at you, miss," he answered,
in the prime of leisure, and wiping his forehead from habit only,
not because he wanted it, "how little us knows of the times and
seasons and the generations of the sons of men.  There you stand,
miss, and here stand I, as haven't seen your father for a score of
years a'most; and yet there comes out of your eyes into mine the
very same look as the Captain used to send, when snakes in the
grass had been telling lies about me coming late, or having my half
pint or so on.  Not that the Captain was a hard man, miss--far
otherwise, and capable of allowance, more than any of the women be.
But only the Lord, who doeth all things aright, could 'a made you
come, with a score of years atween, and the twinkle in your eyes
like--Selah!"

"You know what you mean, perhaps, but I do not," I answered, quite
gently, being troubled by his words and the fear of having tried to
hurry him; "but you should not say what you have said, Jacob Rigg,
to me, your master's daughter, if you only meant to be joking.  Is
this the place to joke with me?"

I pointed to all that lay around me, where I could not plant a foot
without stepping over my brothers or sisters; and the old man,
callous as he might be, could not help feeling for--a pinch of
snuff.  This he found in the right-hand pocket of his waistcoat,
and took it very carefully, and made a little noise of comfort; and
thus, being fully self-assured again, he stood, with his feet far
apart and his head on one side, regarding me warily.  And I took
good care not to say another word.

"You be young," he said at last; "and in these latter days no
wisdom is ordained in the mouths of babes and sucklings, nor always
in the mouths of them as is themselves ordained.  But you have a
way of keeping your chin up, miss, as if you was gifted with a
stiff tongue likewise.  And whatever may hap, I has as good mind to
tell 'e."

"That you are absolutely bound to do," I answered, as forcibly as I
could.  "Duty to your former master and to me, his only child--and
to yourself, and your Maker too--compel you, Jacob Rigg, to tell me
every thing you know."

"Then, miss," he answered, coming nearer to me, and speaking in a
low, hoarse voice, "as sure as I stand here in God's churchyard, by
all this murdered family, I knows the man who done it!"

He looked at me, with a trembling finger upon his hard-set lips,
and the spade in his other hand quivered like a wind vane; but I
became as firm as the monument beside me, and my heart, instead of
fluttering, grew as steadfast as a glacier.  Then, for the first
time, I knew that God had not kept me living, when all the others
died, without fitting me also for the work there was to do.

"Come here to the corner of the tower, miss," old Jacob went on, in
his excitement catching hold of the sleeve of my black silk jacket.
"Where we stand is a queer sort of echo, which goeth in and out of
them big tombstones.  And for aught I can say to contrairy, he may
be a-watching of us while here we stand."

I glanced around, as if he were most welcome to be watching me, if
only I could see him once.  But the place was as silent as its
graves; and I followed the sexton to the shadow of a buttress.
Here he went into a deep gray corner, lichened and mossed by a drip
from the roof; and being, both in his clothes and self, pretty much
of that same color, he was not very easy to discern from stone when
the light of day was declining.

"This is where I catches all the boys," he whispered; "and this is
where I caught him, one evening when I were tired, and gone to
nurse my knees a bit.  Let me see--why, let me see!  Don't you
speak till I do, miss.  Were it the last but one I dug?  Or could
un 'a been the last but two?  Never mind; I can't call to mind
quite justly.  We puts down about one a month in this parish,
without any distemper or haxident.  Well, it must 'a been the one
afore last--to be sure, no call to scratch my head about un.  Old
Sally Mock, as sure as I stand here--done handsome by the rate-
payers.  Over there, miss, if you please to look--about two land-
yard and a half away.  Can you see un with the grass peeking up
a'ready?"

"Never mind that, Jacob.  Do please to go on."

"So I be, miss.  So I be doing to the best of the power granted me.
Well, I were in this little knuckle of a squat, where old Sally
used to say as I went to sleep, and charged the parish for it--a
spiteful old ooman, and I done her grave with pleasure, only
wishing her had to pay for it; and to prove to her mind that I
never goed asleep here, I was just making ready to set fire to my
pipe, having cocked my shovel in to ease my legs, like this, when
from round you corner of the chancel-foot, and over again that
there old tree, I seed a something movin' along--movin' along,
without any noise or declarance of solid feet walking.  You may see
the track burnt in the sod, if you let your eyes go along this here
finger."

"Oh, Jacob, how could you have waited to see it?"

"I did, miss, I did; being used to a-many antics in this dead-yard,
such as a man who hadn't buried them might up foot to run away
from.  But they no right, after the service of the Church, to come
up for more than one change of the moon, unless they been great
malefactors.  And then they be ashamed of it; and I reminds them of
it.  'Amen,' I say, in the very same voice as I used at the tail of
their funerals; and then they knows well that I covered them up,
and the most uneasy goes back again.  Lor' bless you, miss, I no
fear of the dead.  At both ends of life us be harmless.  It is in
the life, and mostways in the middle of it, we makes all the death
for one another."

This was true enough; and I only nodded to him, fearing to
interject any new ideas from which he might go rambling.

"Well, that there figure were no joke, mind you," the old man
continued, as soon as he had freshened his narrative powers with
another pinch of snuff, "being tall and grim, and white in the
face, and very onpleasant for to look at, and its eyes seemed
a'most to burn holes in the air.  No sooner did I see that it were
not a ghostie, but a living man the same as I be, than my knees
begins to shake and my stumps of teeth to chatter.  And what do you
think it was stopped me, miss, from slipping round this corner, and
away by belfry?  Nort but the hoddest idea you ever heared on.  For
all of a suddint it was borne unto my mind that the Lord had been
pleased to send us back the Captain; not so handsome as he used to
be, but in the living flesh, however, in spite of they newspapers.
And I were just at the pint of coming forrard, out of this here
dark cornder, knowing as I had done my duty by them graves that his
honor, to my mind, must 'a come looking after, when, lucky for me,
I see summat in his walk, and then in his countenance, and then in
all his features, unnateral on the Captain's part, whatever his
time of life might be.  And sure enough, miss, it were no Captain
more nor I myself be."

"Of course not.  How could it be?  But who was it, Jacob?"

"You bide a bit, miss, and you shall hear the whole.  Well, by that
time 'twas too late for me to slip away, and I was bound to scrooge
up into the elbow of this nick here, and try not to breathe, as
nigh as might be, and keep my Lammas cough down; for I never see a
face more full of malice and uncharity.  However, he come on as
straight as a arrow, holding his long chin out, like this, as if he
gotten crutches under it, as the folk does with bad water.  A tall
man, as tall as the Captain a'most, but not gifted with any kind
aspect.  He trampsed over the general graves, like the devil come
to fetch their souls out; but when he come here to the 'holy ring,'
he stopped short, and stood with his back to me.  I could hear him
count the seven graves, as pat as the shells of oysters to pay for,
and then he said all their names, as true, from the biggest to the
leastest one, as Betsy Bowen could 'a done it, though none of 'em
got no mark to 'em.  Oh, the poor little hearts, it was cruel hard
upon them!  And then my lady in the middle, making seven.  So far
as I could catch over his shoulder, he seemed to be quite a-talking
with her--not as you and I be, miss, but a sort of a manner of a
way, like."

"And what did he seem to say?  Oh, Jacob, how long you do take over
it!"

"Well, he did not, miss; that you may say for sartain.  And glad I
was to have him quick about it; for he might have redooced me to
such a condition--ay, and I believe a' would, too, if onst a' had
caught sight of me--as the parish might 'a had to fight over the
appintment of another sexton.  And so at last a' went away.  And I
were that stiff with scrooging in this cornder--"

"Is that all?  Oh, that comes to nothing.  Surely you must have
more to tell me?  It may have been some one who knew our names.  It
may have been some old friend of the family."

"No, miss, no!  No familiar friend; or if he was, he were like King
David's.  He bore a tyrannous hate against 'e, and the poison of
asps were under his lips.  In this here hattitude he stood, with
his back toward me, and his reins more upright than I be capable of
putting it.  And this was how he held up his elbow and his head.
Look 'e see, miss, and then 'e know as much as I do."

Mr. Rigg marched with a long smooth step--a most difficult strain
for his short bowed legs--as far as the place he had been pointing
out; and there he stood with his back to me, painfully doing what
the tall man had done, so far as the difference of size allowed.

It was not possible for me to laugh in a matter of such sadness;
and yet Jacob stood, with his back to me, spreading and stretching
himself in such a way, to be up to the dimensions of the stranger,
that--low as it was--I was compelled to cough, for fear of fatally
offending him.

"That warn't quite right, miss.  Now you look again," he exclaimed,
with a little readjustment.  "Only he had a thing over one
shoulder, the like of what the Scotchmen wear; and his features was
beyond me, because of the back of his head, like.  For God's sake
keep out of his way, miss."

The sexton stood in a musing and yet a stern and defiant attitude,
with the right elbow clasped in the left-hand palm, the right hand
resting half-clinched upon the forehead, and the shoulders thrown
back, as if ready for a blow.

"What a very odd way to stand!" I said.

"Yes, miss.  And what he said was odder.  'Six, and the mother!' I
heared un say; 'no cure for it, till I have all seven.'  But stop,
miss.  Not a breath to any one!  Here comes the poor father and
mother to speak the blessing across their daughter's grave--and the
grave not two foot down yet!"



CHAPTER XXXVI

A SIMPLE QUESTION


Now this account of what Jacob Rigg had seen and heard threw me
into a state of mind extremely unsatisfactory.  To be in eager
search of some unknown person who had injured me inexpressibly,
without any longing for revenge on my part, but simply with a view
to justice--this was a very different thing from feeling that an
unknown person was in quest of me, with the horrible purpose of
destroying me to insure his own wicked safety.

At first I almost thought that he was welcome to do this; that such
a life as mine (if looked at from an outer point of view) was
better to be died than lived out.  Also that there was nobody left
to get any good out of all that I could do; and even if I ever
should succeed, truth would come out of her tomb too late.  And
this began to make me cry, which I had long given over doing, with
no one to feel for the heart of it.

But a thing of this kind could not long endure; and as soon as the
sun of the morrow arose (or at least as soon as I was fit to see
him), my view of the world was quite different.  Here was the merry
brook, playing with the morning, spread around with ample depth and
rich retreat of meadows, and often, after maze of leisure,
hastening with a tinkle into shadowy delight of trees.  Here, as
well, were happy lanes, and footpaths of a soft content, unworn
with any pressure of the price of time or business.  None of them
knew (in spite, at flurried spots, of their own direction posts)
whence they were coming or whither going--only that here they lay,
between the fields or through them, like idle veins of earth, with
sometimes company of a man or boy, whistling to his footfall, or a
singing maid with a milking pail.  And how ungrateful it would be
to forget the pleasant copses, in waves of deep green leafage
flowing down and up the channeled hills, waving at the wind to
tints and tones of new refreshment, and tempting idle folk to come
and hear the hush, and see the twinkled texture of pellucid gloom.

Much, however, as I loved to sit in places of this kind alone, for
some little time I feared to do so, after hearing the sexton's
tale; for Jacob's terror was so unfeigned (though his own life had
not been threatened) that, knowing as I did from Betsy's account,
as well as his own appearance, that he was not at all a nervous
man, I could not help sharing his vague alarm.  It seemed so
terrible that any one should come to the graves of my sweet mother
and her six harmless children, and, instead of showing pity, as
even a monster might have tried to do, should stand, if not with
threatening gestures, yet with a most hostile mien, and thirst for
the life of the only survivor--my poor self.

But terrible or not, the truth was so; and neither Betsy nor myself
could shake Mr. Rigg's conclusion.  Indeed, he became more and more
emphatic, in reply to our doubts and mild suggestions, perhaps that
his eyes had deceived him, or perhaps that, taking a nap in the
corner of the buttress, he had dreamed at least a part of it.  And
Betsy, on the score of ancient friendship and kind remembrance of
his likings, put it to him in a gentle way whether his knowledge of
what Sally Mock had been, and the calumnies she might have spoken
of his beer (when herself, in the work-house, deprived of it),
might not have induced him to take a little more than usual in
going down so deep for her.  But he answered, "No; it was nothing
of the sort.  Deep he had gone, to the tiptoe of his fling; not
from any feeling of a wish to keep her down, but just because the
parish paid, and the parish would have measurement.  And when that
was on, he never brought down more than the quart tin from the
public; and never had none down afterward.  Otherwise the ground
was so ticklish, that a man, working too free, might stay down
there.  No, no!  That idea was like one of Sally's own.  He just
had his quart of Persfield ale--short measure, of course, with a
woman at the bar--and if that were enough to make a man dream
dreams, the sooner he dug his own grave, the better for all
connected with him."

We saw that we had gone too far in thinking of such a possibility;
and if Mr. Rigg had not been large-minded, as well as notoriously
sober, Betsy might have lost me all the benefit of his evidence by
her London-bred clumsiness with him.  For it takes quite a
different handling, and a different mode of outset, to get on with
the London working class and the laboring kind of the country; or
at least it seemed to me so.

Now my knowledge of Jacob Rigg was owing, as might be supposed, to
Betsy Strouss, who had taken the lead of me in almost every thing
ever since I brought her down from London.  And now I was glad
that, in one point at least, her judgment had overruled mine--to
wit, that my name and parentage were as yet not generally known in
the village.  Indeed, only Betsy herself and Jacob and a faithful
old washer-woman, with no roof to her mouth, were aware of me as
Miss Castlewood.  Not that I had taken any other name--to that I
would not stoop--but because the public, of its own accord, paying
attention to Betsy's style of addressing me, followed her lead
(with some little improvement), and was pleased to entitle me "Miss
Raumur."

Some question had been raised as to spelling me aright, till a man
of advanced intelligence proved to many eyes, and even several
pairs of spectacles (assembled in front of the blacksmith's shop),
that no other way could be right except that.  For there it was in
print, as any one able might see, on the side of an instrument
whose name and qualities were even more mysterious than those in
debate.  Therefore I became "Miss Raumur;" and a protest would have
gone for nothing unless printed also.  But it did not behoove me to
go to that expense, while it suited me very well to be considered
and pitied as a harmless foreigner--a being who on English land may
find some cause to doubt whether, even in his own country, a
prophet could be less thought of.  And this large pity for me, as
an outlandish person, in the very spot where I was born, endowed me
with tenfold the privilege of the proudest native.  For the natives
of this valley are declared to be of a different stock from those
around them, not of the common Wessex strain, but of Jutish or
Danish origin.  How that may be I do not know; at any rate, they
think well of themselves, and no doubt they have cause to do so.

Moreover, they all were very kind to me, and their primitive ways
amused me, as soon as they had settled that I was a foreigner,
equally beyond and below inquiry.  They told me that I was kindly
welcome to stay there as long as it pleased me; and knowing how
fond I was of making pictures, after beholding my drawing-book,
every farmer among them gave me leave to come into his fields,
though he never had heard there was any thing there worth painting.

When once there has been a deposit of idea in the calm deep eocene
of British rural mind, the impression will outlast any shallow
deluge of the noblest education.  Shoxford had settled two points
forever, without troubling reason to come out of her way--first,
that I was a foreign young lady of good birth, manners, and money;
second, and far more important, I was here to write and paint a
book about Shoxford.  Not for the money, of that I had no need
(according to the congress at the "Silver-edged Holly"), but for
the praise and the knowledge of it, like, and to make a talk among
high people.  But the elders shook their heads--as I heard from Mr.
Rigg, who hugged his knowledge proudly, and uttered dim sayings of
wisdom let forth at large usury: he did not mind telling me that
the old men shook their heads, for fear of my being a deal too
young, and a long sight too well favored (as any man might tell
without his specs on), for to write any book upon any subject yet,
leave alone an old, ancient town like theirs.  However, there might
be no harm in my trying, and perhaps the school-master would cross
out the bad language.

Thus for once fortune now was giving me good help, enabling me to
go about freely, and preventing (so far as I could see, at least)
all danger of discovery by my unknown foe.  So here I resolved to
keep my head-quarters, dispensing, if it must be so, with Betsy's
presence, and not even having Mrs. Price to succeed her, unless my
cousin should insist upon it.  And partly to dissuade him from
that, and partly to hear his opinion of the sexton's tale, I paid a
flying visit to Lord Castlewood; while "Madam Straw," as Betsy now
was called throughout the village, remained behind at Shoxford.
For I long had desired to know a thing which I had not ventured to
ask my cousin--though I did ask Mr. Shovelin--whether my father had
intrusted him with the key of his own mysterious acts.  I scarcely
knew whether it was proper even now to put this question to Lord
Castlewood; but even without doing so, I might get at the answer by
watching him closely while I told my tale.  Not a letter had
reached me since I came to Shoxford, neither had I written any,
except one to Uncle Sam; and keeping to this excellent rule, I
arrived at Castlewood without notice.

In doing this I took no liberty, because full permission had been
given me about it; and indeed I had been expected there, as Stixon
told me, some days before.  He added that his master was about as
usual, but had shown some uneasiness on my account, though the
butler was all in the dark about it, and felt it very hard after
all these years, "particular, when he could hardly help thinking
that Mrs. Price--a new hand compared to himself, not to speak of
being a female--knowed all about it, and were very aggravating.
But there, he would say no more; he knew his place, and he always
had been valued in it, long afore Mrs. Price come up to the bottom
of his waistcoat."

My cousin received me with kindly warmth, and kissed me gently on
the forehead.  "My dear, how very well you look!" he said.  "Your
native air has agreed with you.  I was getting, in my quiet way,
rather sedulous and self-reproachful about you.  But you would have
your own way, like a young American; and it seems that you were
right."

"It was quite right," I answered, with a hearty kiss, for I never
could be cold-natured; and this was my only one of near kin, so
far, at least, as my knowledge went.  "I was quite right in going;
and I have done good.  At any rate, I have found out something--
something that may not be of any kind of use; but still it makes me
hope things."

With that, in as few words as ever I could use, I told Lord
Castlewood the whole of Jacob's tale, particularly looking at him
all the while I spoke, to settle in my own mind whether the idea of
such a thing was new to him.  Concerning that, however, I could
make out nothing.  My cousin, at his time of life, and after so
much travelling, had much too large a share of mind and long skill
of experience for me to make any thing out of his face beyond his
own intention.  And whether he had suspicion or not of any thing at
all like what I was describing, or any body having to do with it,
was more than I ever might have known, if I had not gathered up my
courage and put the question outright to him.  I told him that if I
was wrong in asking, he was not to answer; but, right or wrong, ask
him I must.

"The question is natural, and not at all improper," replied Lord
Castlewood, standing a moment for change of pain, which was all his
relief.  "Indeed, I expected you to ask me that before.  But,
Erema, I have also had to ask myself about it, whether I have any
right to answer you.  And I have decided not to do so, unless you
will pledge yourself to one thing."

"I will pledge myself to any thing," I answered, rashly; "I do not
care what it is, if only to get at the bottom of this mystery."

"I scarcely think you will hold good to your words when you hear
what you have to promise.  The condition upon which I tell you what
I believe to be the cause of all is, that you let things remain as
they are, and keep silence forever about them."

"Oh, you can not be so cruel, so atrocious!" I cried, in my bitter
disappointment.  "What good would it be for me to know things thus,
and let the vile wrong continue?  Surely you are not bound to lay
on me a condition so impossible?"

"After much consideration and strong wish to have it otherwise, I
have concluded that I am so bound."

"In duty to my father, or the family, or what?  Forgive me for
asking, but it does seem so hard."

"It seems hard, my dear, and it is hard as well," he answered, very
gently, yet showing in his eyes and lips no chance of any yielding.
"But remember that I do not know, I only guess, the secret; and if
you give the pledge I speak of, you merely follow in your father's
steps."

"Never," I replied, with as firm a face as his.  "It may have been
my father's duty, or no doubt he thought it so; but it can not be
mine, unless I make it so by laying it on my honor.  And I will not
do that."

"Perhaps you are right; but, at any rate, remember that I have not
tried to persuade you.  I wish to do what is for your happiness,
Erema.  And I think that, on the whole, with your vigor and high
spirit, you are better as you are than if you had a knowledge which
you could only brood over and not use."

"I will find out the whole of it myself," I cried, for I could not
repress all excitement; "and then I need not brood over it, but may
have it out and get justice.  In the wildest parts of America
justice comes with perseverance: am I to abjure it in the heart of
England?  Lord Castlewood, which is first--justice or honor?"

"My cousin, you are fond of asking questions difficult to answer.
Justice and honor nearly always go together.  When they do
otherwise, honor stands foremost, with people of good birth, at
least."

"Then I will be a person of very bad birth.  If they come into
conflict in my life, as almost every thing seems to do, my first
thought shall be of justice; and honor shall come in as its
ornament afterward."

"Erema," said my cousin, "your meaning is good, and at your time of
life you can scarcely be expected to take a dispassionate view of
things."

At first I felt almost as if I could hate a "dispassionate view of
things."  Things are made to arouse our passion, so long as
meanness and villainy prevail; and if old men, knowing the balance
of the world, can contemplate them all "dispassionately," more
clearly than any thing else, to my mind, that proves the beauty of
being young.  I am sure that I never was hot or violent--qualities
which I especially dislike--but still I would rather almost have
those than be too philosophical.  And now, while I revered my
father's cousin for his gentleness, wisdom, and long-suffering, I
almost longed to fly back to the Major, prejudiced, peppery, and
red-hot for justice, at any rate in all things that concerned
himself.



CHAPTER XXXVII

SOME ANSWER TO IT


Hasty indignation did not drive me to hot action.  A quiet talk
with Mrs. Price, as soon as my cousin's bad hour arrived, was quite
enough to bring me back to a sense of my own misgovernment.
Moreover, the evening clouds were darkening for a night of thunder,
while the silver Thames looked nothing more than a leaden pipe down
the valleys.  Calm words fall at such times on quick temper like
the drip of trees on people who have been dancing.  I shivered, as
my spirit fell, to think of my weak excitement, and poor petulance
to a kind, wise friend, a man of many sorrows and perpetual
affliction.  And then I recalled what I had observed, but in my
haste forgotten--Lord Castlewood was greatly changed even in the
short time since I had left his house for Shoxford.  Pale he had
always been, and his features (calm as they were, and finely cut)
seemed almost bleached by in-door life and continual endurance.
But now they showed worse sign than this--a delicate transparence
of faint color, and a waxen surface, such as I had seen at a time I
can not bear to think of.  Also he had tottered forward, while he
tried for steadfast footing, quite as if his worried members were
almost worn out at last.

Mrs. Price took me up quite sharply--at least for one of her well-
trained style--when I ventured to ask if she had noticed this,
which made me feel uneasy.  "Oh dear, no!" she said, looking up
from the lace-frilled pockets of her silk apron, which appeared to
my mind perhaps a little too smart, and almost of a vulgar
tincture; and I think that she saw in my eyes that much, and was
vexed with herself for not changing it--"oh dear, no, Miss
Castlewood!  We who know and watch him should detect any difference
of that nature at the moment of its occurrence.  His lordship's
health goes vacillating; a little up now, and then a little down,
like a needle that is mounted to show the dip of compass; and it
varies according to the electricity, as well as the magnetic
influence."

"What doctor told you that?" I asked, seeing in a moment that this
housekeeper was dealing in quotation.

"You are very"--she was going to say "rude," but knew better when
she saw me waiting for it--"well, you are rather brusque, as we
used to call it abroad, Miss Castlewood; but am I incapable of
observing for myself?"

"I never implied that," was my answer.  "I believe that you are
most intelligent, and fit to nurse my cousin, as you are to keep
his house.  And what you have said shows the clearness of your
memory and expression."

"You are very good to speak so," she answered, recovering her
temper beautifully, but, like a true woman, resolved not to let me
know any thing more about it.  "Oh, what a clap of thunder!  Are
you timid?  This house has been struck three times, they say.  It
stands so prominently.  It is this that has made my lord look so."

"Let us hope, then to see him much better to-morrow," I said, very
bravely, though frightened at heart, being always a coward of
thunder.  "What are these storms you get in England compared to the
tropical outbursts?  Let us open the window, if you please, and
watch it."

"I hear myself called," Mrs. Price exclaimed.  "I am sorry to leave
you, miss.  You know best.  But please not to sit by an open
window; nothing is more dangerous."

"Except a great bunch of steel keys," I replied; and gazing at her
nice retreating figure, saw it quickened, as a flash of lightning
passed, with the effort of both hands to be quit of something.

The storm was dreadful; and I kept the window shut, but could not
help watching, with a fearful joy, the many-fingered hazy pale
vibrations, the reflections of the levin in the hollow of the land.
And sadly I began to think of Uncle Sam and all his goodness; and
how in a storm, a thousandfold of this, he went down his valley in
the torrent of the waves, and must have been drowned, and perhaps
never found again, if he had not been wearing his leathern apron.

This made me humble, as all great thoughts do, and the sidelong
drizzle in among the heavy rain (from the big drops jostling each
other in the air, and dashing out splashes of difference) gave me
an idea of the sort of thing I was--and how very little more.  And
feeling rather lonely in the turn that things had taken, I rang the
bell for somebody; and up came Stixon.

"Lor', miss!  Lor', what a burning shame of Prick!--'Prick' we call
her, in our genial moments, hearing as the 'k' is hard in Celtic
language; and all abroad about her husband.  My very first saying
to you was, not to be too much okkipied with her.  Look at the
pinafore on her!  Lord be with me!  If his lordship, as caught me,
that day of this very same month fifty years, in the gooseberry
bush--"

"To be sure!" I said, knowing that story by heart, together with
all its embellishments; "but things are altered since that day.
Nothing can be more to your credit, I am sure, than to be able to
tell such a tale in the very place where it happened."

"But, Miss--Miss Erma, I ain't begun to tell it."

"Because you remember that I am acquainted with it.  A thing so
remarkable is not to be forgotten.  Now let me ask you a question
of importance; and I beg you, as an old servant of this family, to
answer it carefully and truly.  Do you remember any one, either
here or elsewhere, so like my father, Captain Castlewood, as to be
taken for him at first sight, until a difference of expression and
of walk was noticed?"

Mr. Stixon looked at me with some surprise, and then began to think
profoundly, and in doing so he supported his chin with one hand.

"Let me see--like the Captain?"  He reflected slowly:  "Did I ever
see a gentleman like poor Master George, as was?  A gentleman, of
course, it must have been--and a very tall, handsome, straight
gentleman, to be taken anyhow for young Master George.  And he must
have been very like him, too, to be taken for him by resemblance.
Well then, miss, to the best of my judgment, I never did see such a
gentleman."

"I don't know whether it was a gentleman or not," I answered, with
some impatience at his tantalizing slowness; "but he carried his
chin stretched forth--like this."

For Stixon's own attitude had reminded me of a little point in
Jacob Rigg's description, which otherwise might have escaped me.

"Lor', now, and he carried his chin like that!" resumed the butler,
with an increase of intelligence by no means superfluous.  "Why,
let me see, now, let me see.  Something do come across my mind when
you puts out your purty chin, miss; but there, it must have been a
score of years agone, or more--perhaps five-and-twenty.  What a
daft old codger I be getting, surely!  No wonder them new lights
puts a bushel over me."

"No," I replied; "you are simply showing great power of memory,
Stixon.  And now please to tell me, as soon as you can, who it was--
a tall man, remember, and a handsome one, with dark hair, perhaps,
or at any rate dark eyes--who resembled (perhaps not very closely,
but still enough to mislead at a distance) my dear father--Master
George, as you call him, for whose sake you are bound to tell me
every thing you know.  Now try to think--do please try your very
best, for my sake."

"That I will, miss; that I will, with all my heart, with all my
mind, with all my soul, and with all my strength, as I used to have
to say with my hands behind my back, afore education were invented.
Only please you to stand with your chin put out, miss, and your
profield towards me.  That is what brings it up, and nothing else
at all, miss.  Only, not to say a word of any sort to hurry me.  A
tracherous and a deep thing is the memory and the remembrance."

Mr. Stixon's memory was so deep that there seemed to be no bottom
to it, or, at any rate, what lay there took a very long time to get
at.  And I waited, with more impatience than hope, the utterance of
his researches.

"I got it now; I got it all, miss, clear as any pictur'!" the old
man cried out, at the very moment when I was about to say, "Please
to leave off; I am sure it is too much for you."  "Not a pictur' in
all of our gallery, miss, two-and-fifty of 'em, so clear as I see
that there man, dark as it was, and a heavy wind a-blowing.  What
you call them things, miss, if you please, as comes with the sun,
like a face upon the water?  Wicked things done again the will of
the Lord, and He makes them fade out afterwards."

"Perhaps you mean photographs.  Is that the word?"

"The very word, and no mistake.  A sinful trespass on the works of
God, to tickle the vanity of gals.  But he never spread himself
abroad like them.  They shows all their ear-rings, and their necks,
and smiles.  But he never would have shown his nose, if he could
help it, that stormy night when I come to do my duty.  He come into
this house without so much as a 'by your leave' to nobody, and
vexed me terrible accordingly.  It was in the old lord's time,
you know, miss, a one of the true sort, as would have things
respectful, and knock down any man as soon as look.  And it put me
quite upon the touch-and-go, being responsible for all the
footman's works, and a young boy promoted in the face of my
opinion, having my own son worth a dozen of him.  This made me look
at the nature of things, miss, and find it on my conscience to be
after every body."

"Yes, Stixon, yes!  Now do go on.  You must always have been, not
only after, but a very long way after, every body."

"Miss Erma, if you throw me out, every word goes promiscuous.  In a
heffort of the mind like this it is every word, or no word.  Now,
did I see him come along the big passage?--a 'currydoor' they call
it now, though no more curry in it than there is door.  No, I never
seed him come along the passage, and that made it more reproachful.
He come out of a green-baize door--the very place I can point out
to you, and the selfsame door, miss, though false to the accuracy
of the mind that knows it, by reason of having been covered up
red, and all the brass buttons lost to it in them new-fangled
upholsteries.  Not that I see him come through, if you please, but
the sway of the door, being double-jointed, was enough to show
legs, had been there.  And knowing that my lord's private room was
there, made me put out my legs quite wonderful."

"Oh, do please to put out your words half as quickly."

"No, miss, no.  I were lissome in those days, though not so very
stiff at this time of speaking, and bound to be guarded in the
guidance of the tongue.  And now, miss, I think if you please to
hear the rest to-morrow, I could tell it better."

A more outrageous idea than this was never presented to me.  Even
if I could have tried to wait, this dreadful old man might have
made up his mind not to open his lips in the morning, or, if he
would speak, there might be nothing left to say.  His memory was
nursed up now, and my only chance was to keep it so.  Therefore I
begged him to please to go on, and no more would I interrupt him.
And I longed to be ten years older, so as not to speak when
needless.

"So then, Miss Erma, if I must go on," resumed the well-coaxed
Stixon, "if my duty to the family driveth me to an 'arrowing
subjeck, no words can more justly tell what come to pass than my
language to my wife.  She were alive then, the poor dear hangel,
and the mother of seven children, which made me, by your leave
comparing humble roofs with grandeur, a little stiff to him up
stairs, as come in on the top of seven.  For I said to my wife when
I went home--sleeping out of the house, you see, miss, till the
Lord was pleased to dissolve matrimony--'Polly,' I said, when I
took home my supper, 'you may take my word for it there is
something queer.'  Not another word did I mean to tell her, as
behooved my dooty.  Howsoever, no peace was my lot till I made a
clean bosom of it, only putting her first on the Testament, and
even that not safe with most of them.  And from that night not a
soul has heard a word till it comes to you, miss.  He come striding
along, with his face muffled up, for all the world like a bugglar,
and no more heed did he pay to me than if I was one of the
pedestals.  But I were in front of him at the door, and to slip out
so was against all orders.  So in front of him I stands, with my
hand upon the handles, and meaning to have a word with him, to know
who he was, and such like, and how he comes there, and what he had
been seeking, with the spoons and the forks and the gravies on my
mind.  And right I would have been in a court of law (if the
lawyers was put out of it) for my hefforts in that situation.  And
then, what do you think he done, miss?  So far from entering into
any conversation with me, or hitting at me, like a man--which would
have done good to think of--he send out one hand to the bottom of
my vest--as they call it now in all the best livery tailors--and
afore I could reason on it, there I was a-lying on a star in six
colors of marble.  When I come to think on it, it was but a push
directed to a part of my system, and not a hit under the belt, the
like of which no Briton would think of delivering.  Nevertheless,
there was no differ in what came to me, miss, and my spirit was
roused, as if I had been hit foul by one of the prizemen.  No time
to get up, but I let out one foot at his long legs as a' was
slipping through the door, and so nearly did I fetch him over that
he let go his muffle to balance himself with the jamb, and same
moment a strong rush of wind laid bare the whole of his wicked face
to me.  For a bad wicked face it was, as ever I did see; whether by
reason of the kick I gave, and a splinter in the shin, or by habit
of the mind, a proud and 'aughty and owdacious face, and, as I said
to my poor wife, reminded me a little of our Master George; not in
his ordinary aspect, to be sure, but as Master George might look if
he was going to the devil.  Pray excoose me, miss, for bad words,
but no good ones will do justice.  And so off he goes, after one
look at me on the ground, not worth considering, with his chin
stuck up, as if the air was not good enough to be breathed
perpendiklar like."

"And of course you followed him," I exclaimed, perceiving that
Stixon would allow me now to speak.  "Without any delay you went
after him."

"Miss Erma, you forget what my dooty was.  My dooty was to stay by
the door and make it fast, as custodian of all this mansion.  No
little coorosity, or private resentment, could 'a borne me out in
doing so.  As an outraged man I was up for rushing out, but as a
trusted official, and responsible head footman, miss--for I were
not butler till nine months after that--my dooty was to put the big
bolt in."

"And you did it, without even looking out to see if he tried to set
the house on fire!  Oh, Stixon, I fear that you were frightened."

"Now, Miss Erma, I calls it ungrateful, after all my hefforts to
obleege you, to put a bad construction upon me.  You hurts me,
miss, in my tenderest parts, as I never thought Master George's
darter would 'a doed.  But there, they be none of them as they used
to be!  Master George would 'a said, if he ever had heard it.
'Stixon, my man, you have acted for the best, and showed a sound
discretion.  Stixon,' he would have said, 'here's a George and
Dragon in reward of your gallant conduck.'  Ah, that sort of
manliness is died out now."

This grated at first upon my feelings, because it seemed tainted
with selfishness, and it did not entirely agree with my own
recollections of my father.  But still Mr. Stixon must have
suffered severely in that conflict, and to blame him for not
showing rashness was to misunderstand his position.  And so, before
putting any other questions to him, I felt in my pocket for a new
half sovereign, which I hoped would answer.

Mr. Stixon received it in an absent manner, as if he were still
in the struggle of his story, and too full of duty to be thankful.
Yet I saw that he did not quite realize the truth of a nobly
philosophic proverb--"the half is more than the whole."
Nevertheless, he stowed away his half, in harmony with a good
old English saying.

"Now, when you were able to get up at last," I inquired, with
tender interest, "what did you see, and what did you do, and what
conclusion did you come to?"

"I came to the conclusion, miss, that I were hurt considerable.
Coorosity on my part were quenched by the way as I had to rub
myself.  But a man is a man, and the last thing to complain of is
the exercise of his functions.  And when I come round I went off to
his lordship, as if I had heared his bell ring.  All of us knew
better than to speak till him beginning, for he were not what they
now call 'halfable,' but very much to the contrary.  So he says,
'You door-skulker, what do you want there?'  And I see that he got
his hot leg up, certain to fly to bad language.  According, I
asked, with my breath in my hand, if he pleased to see any young
man there just now, by reason that such likes had been observated
going out in some direction.  But his lordship roared to me to go
in another direction, not fit for young ladies.  My old lord was up
to every word of English; but his present lordship is the hopposite
extreme."

"Is that all you have to tell me, Stixon?  Did you never see that
fearful man again?  Did you never even hear of him?"

"Never, miss, never!  And to nobody but you have I ever told all as
I told now.  But you seems to be born to hear it all."



CHAPTER XXXVIII

A WITCH


It was true enough that Stixon now had nothing more to tell, but
what he had told already seemed of very great importance,
confirming strongly, as it did, the description given me by Jacob
Rigg.  And even the butler's concluding words--that I seemed born
to hear it all--comforted me like some good omen, and cheered me
forward to make them true.  Not that I could, in my sad and
dangerous enterprise, always be confident.  Some little spirit I
must have had, and some resolve to be faithful, according to the
power of a very common mind, admiring but never claiming courage.
For I never did feel in any kind of way any gift of inspiration, or
even the fitness of a quick, strong mind for working out deeds of
justice.  There were many good ladies in America then, and now
there are some in England, perceiving so clearly their own
superiority as to run about largely proclaiming it.  How often I
longed to be a little more like these, equal to men in achievements
of the body, and very far beyond them in questions of the mind!

However, it was useless to regret my lacks, and foolish, perhaps,
to think of them.  To do my very best with what little gifts I had
was more to the purpose and more sensible.  Taking in lonely
perplexity now this dim yet exciting view of things, I resolved,
right or wrong, to abide at the place where the only chance was of
pursuing my search.  I was pledged, as perhaps has been said
before, to keep from every one excepting faithful Betsy, and above
all from Lord Castlewood, the unexpected little tale wrung out of
Mr. Stixon.  That promise had been given without any thought, in my
eagerness to hear every thing, and probably some people would have
thought of it no more.  But the trusty butler was so scared when I
asked him to release me from it, so penitent also at his own
indiscretion, which never would have overcome him (as he said in
the morning) only for the thunder-storm, that instead of getting
off, I was quite obliged to renew and confirm my assurances.

Therefore, in truth, I had no chance left but to go back to
Shoxford and do my best, meeting all dark perils with the shield of
right spread over me.  And a great thing now in my favor was to
feel some confidence again in the guidance of kind Wisdom.  The
sense of this never had abandoned me so much as to make me
miserable about it; but still I had never tried to shelter under
it, and stay there faithfully, as the best of people do.  And even
now I was not brought to such a happy attitude, although delivered
by these little gleams of light from the dark void of fatalism,
into which so many bitter blows had once been driving me.

However, before setting off again, I made one more attempt upon
Lord Castlewood, longing to know whether his suspicions would help
me at all to identify the figure which had frightened both the
sexton and the butler.  That the person was one and the same, I did
not for a moment call in question, any more than I doubted that he
was the man upon whose head rested the blood of us.  But why he
should be allowed to go scot-free while another bore his brand, and
many others died for him, and why all my most just and righteous
efforts to discover him should receive, if not discouragement, at
any rate most lukewarm aid--these and several other questions were
as dark as ever.

"You must not return to Shoxford, my cousin," Lord Castlewood said
to me that day, after a plain though courteous refusal to enlighten
me even with a mere surmise, except upon the condition before
rejected.  "I can not allow you to be there without strict
supervision and protection.  You will not, perhaps, be aware of it,
as perhaps you have not been before; but a careful watch will be
kept on you.  I merely tell you this that you may not make
mistakes, and confound friendly vigilance with the spying of an
enemy.  Erema, you will be looked after."

I could not help being grateful for his kindness, and really, try
as I might to be fearless, it would be a great comfort to have some
one to protect me.  On the other hand, how would this bear upon my
own freedom of looking about, my desire to make my own occasions,
and the need of going every where?  Could these be kept to my
liking at all while an unknown power lay in kind regard of me?
Considering these things, I begged my cousin to leave me to my own
devices, for that I was afraid of nobody on earth, while only
seeking justice, and that England must be worse than the worst
parts of America if any harm to me could be apprehended at quiet
times and in such a quiet place.

My cousin said no more upon that point, though I felt that he was
not in any way convinced; but he told me that he thought I should
pay a little visit, if only for a day, such as I treated him with,
to my good friends at Bruntsea, before I returned to Shoxford.
There was no one now at Bruntsea whom I might not wish to meet, as
he knew by a trifling accident; and after all the kind services
rendered by Major and Mrs. Hockin, it was hardly right to let them
begin to feel themselves neglected.  Now the very same thing had
occurred to me, and I was going to propose it; and many things
which I found it hard to do without were left in my little chest of
locked-up drawers there.  But of that, to my knowledge, I scarcely
thought twice; whereas I longed to see and have a talk with dear
"Aunt Mary."  Now, since my affairs had been growing so strange,
and Lord Castlewood had come forward--not strongly, but still quite
enough to speak of--there had been a kind-hearted and genuine wish
at Bruntsea to recover me.  And this desire had unreasonably grown
while starved with disappointment.  The less they heard of me, the
more they imagined in their rich good-will, and the surer they
became that, after all, there was something in my ideas.

But how could I know this, without any letters from them, since
letters were a luxury forbidden me at Shoxford?  I knew it through
one of the simplest and commonest of all nature's arrangements.
Stixon's boy, as every body called him (though he must have been
close upon five-and-twenty, and carried a cane out of sight of the
windows), being so considered, and treated boyishly by the maids of
Castlewood, asserted his dignity, and rose above his value as much
as he had lain below it, by showing that he owned a tender heart,
and them that did not despise it.  For he chanced to be walking
with his cane upon the beach (the very morning after he first went
to Bruntsea, too late for any train back again), and casting
glances of interior wonder over the unaccustomed sea--when from the
sea itself out-leaped a wondrous rosy deity.

"You there, Mr. Stixon!  Oh my!  How long?" exclaimed Mrs. Hockin's
new parlormaid, ready to drop, though in full print now, on the
landward steps of the bathing-machine set up by the reckless Major.

"Come this very hinstant, miss, honor bright!" replied the junior
Stixon, who had moved in good society; "and just in the hackmy of
time, miss, if I may offer you my 'umble hand."

The fair nymph fixed him with a penetrating gaze through tresses
full of salt curliness, while her cheeks were conscious of an
unclad dip.  But William Stixon's eyes were firm with pure truth,
gently toning into shy reproach and tenderness.  He had met her at
supper last night, and done his best; but (as he said to the
Castlewood maids) it was only feeling then, whereas now it was
emoshun.

"Then you are a gentleman!" Polly Hopkins cried; "and indeed, Mr.
Stixon, these are slippery things."  She was speaking of the steps,
as she came down them, and they had no hand-rails; and the young
man felt himself to be no more Stixon's boy, but a gentleman under
sweet refining pressure.

From that hour forth it was pronounced, and they left the world to
its own opinion, that they were keeping company; and although they
were sixty miles apart by air, and eighty-two by railway, at every
post their hearts were one, with considerable benefit to the United
Kingdom's revenue.  Also they met by the sad sea waves, when the
bathing-machines had been hauled up--for the Major now had three of
them--as often as Stixon senior smiled--which he did whenever he
was not put out--on the bygone ways of these children.  For Polly
Hopkins had a hundred pounds, as well as being the only child of
the man who kept the only shop for pickled pork in Bruntsea.  And
my Mr. Stixon could always contrive to get orders from his lordship
to send the boy away, with his carriage paid, when his health
demanded bathing.  Hence it is manifest that the deeds and thoughts
of Bruntsea House, otherwise called "Bruntlands," were known quite
as well, and discussed even better--because dispassionately--at
Castlewood than and as they were at home.

Now I won forever the heart of Stixon's boy, and that of Polly
Hopkins, by recoiling with horror from the thought of going to
Bruntsea unattended.  After all my solitary journeys, this might
have been called hypocrisy, if it had been inconvenient; but coming
as it did, it was pronounced, by all who desired either news or
love, to be another proof of the goodness of my heart.

Escorted thus by William Stixon (armed with a brilliant cane bought
for this occasion), and knowing that Sir Montague Hockin was not
there, I arrived at Bruntlands in the afternoon, and received a
kindly welcome from my dear friend Mrs. Hockin.  Her husband was
from home, and she grieved to say that now he was generally doing
this; but nobody else could have any idea what his avocations were!
Then she paid me some compliments on my appearance--a thing that I
never thought of, except when I came to a question of likeness, or
chanced to be thinking of things, coming up as they will, at a
looking-glass.

That the Major was out was a truth established in my mind some time
ago; because I had seen him, as our fly crawled by, expressly and
emphatically at work on a rampart of his own designing.  The work
was quite new to me, but not so his figure.  Though I could not see
people three miles off, as Firm Gundry was said to do, I had pretty
clear sight, and could not mistake the Major within a furlong.  And
there he was, going about in a row of square notches against the
sea-line, with his coat off, and brandishing some tool, vehemently
carrying on to spirits less active than his own.  I burned with
desire to go and join him, for I love to see activity; but Mrs.
Hockin thought that I had better stay away, because it was
impossible to get on there without language too strong for young
ladies.

This closed the question, and I stopped with her, and found the
best comfort that I ever could have dreamed of.  "Aunt Mary" was so
steadfast, and so built up with, or rather built of, the very faith
itself, that to talk with her was as good as reading the noblest
chapter of the Bible.  She put by all possibility of doubt as to
the modern interference of the Lord, with such a sweet pity and the
seasoned smile of age, and so much feeling (which would have been
contempt if she had not been softened by her own escapes), that
really I, who had come expecting to set her beautiful white hair on
end, became like a little child put into the corner, but too young
yet for any other punishment at school, except to be looked at.
Nevertheless, though I did look small, it made me all the happier.
I seemed to become less an individual, and more a member of a large
kind race under paternal management.  From a practical point of
view this may have been amiss, but it helped to support me
afterward.  And before I began to get weary or rebel against her
gentle teaching, in came her husband; and she stopped at once,
because he had never any time for it.

"My geological hammer!" cried the Major, being in a rush as usual.
"Oh, Miss Castlewood!  I did not see you.  Pardon me!  It is the
want of practice only; so wholly have you deserted us.  Fallen into
better hands, of course.  Well, how are you?  But I need not ask.
If ever there was a young lady who looked well--don't tell me of
troubles, or worries, or nerves--I put up my glasses, and simply
say, 'Pretty young ladies are above all pity!'  My hammer, dear
Mary; my hammer I must have.  The geological one, you know; we have
come on a bit of old Roman work; the bricklayer's hammers go flat,
like lead.  I have just one minute and a half to spare.  What fine
fellows those Romans were!  I will build like a Roman.  See to
every bit of it myself, Erema.  No contractor's jobs for me.  Mary,
you know where to find it."

"Well, dear, I think that you had it last, to get the bung out of
the beer barrel, when the stool broke down in the corner, you know,
because you would--"

"Never mind about that.  The drayman made a fool of himself.  I
proceeded upon true principles.  That fellow knew nothing of
leverage."

"Well, dear, of course you understand it best.  But he told cook
that it was quite a mercy that you got off without a broken leg;
and compared with that, two gallons of spilled ale--"  Mrs. Hockin
made off, without finishing her sentence.

"What a woman she is!" cried the Major; "she takes such a lofty
view of things, and she can always find my tools.  Erema, after
dinner I must have a talk with you.  There is something going on
here--on my manor--which I can not at all get a clew to, except by
connecting you with it, the Lord knows how.  Of course you have
nothing to do with it; but still my life has been so free from
mystery that, that--you know what I mean--"

"That you naturally think I must be at the bottom of every thing
mysterious.  Now is there any thing dark about me?  Do I not labor
to get at the light?  Have I kept from your knowledge any single
thing?  But you never cared to go into them."

"It is hardly fair of you to say that.  The fact is that you, of
your own accord, have chosen other counselors.  Have you heard any
more of your late guardian, Mr. Shovelin?  I suppose that his
executor, or some one appointed by him, is now your legal
guardian."

"I have not even asked what the law is," I replied.  "Lord
Castlewood is my proper guardian, according to all common-sense,
and I mean to have him so.  He has inquired through his solicitors
as to Mr. Shovelin, and I am quite free there.  My father's will is
quite good, they say; but it never has been proved, and none of
them care to do it.  My cousin thinks that I could compel them to
prove it, or to renounce in proper form; but Mr. Shovelin's sons
are not nice people--as different from him as night from day,
careless and wild and dashing."

"Then do you mean to do nothing about it?  What a time she is
finding that hammer!"

"I leave it entirely to my cousin, and he is waiting for legal
advice.  I wish to have the will, of course, for the sake of my
dear father; but with or without any will, my mother's little
property comes to me.  And if my dear father had nothing to leave,
why should we run up a great lawyer's bill?"

"To be sure not!  I see.  That makes all the difference.  I admire
your common-sense," said the Major--"but there!  Come and look, and
just exercise it here.  There is that very strange woman again,
just at the end of my new road.  She stands quite still, and then
stares about, sometimes for an hour together.  Nobody knows who she
is, or why she came.  She has taken a tumble-down house on my
manor, from a wretch of a fellow who denies my title; and what she
lives on is more than any one can tell, for she never spends
sixpence in Bruntsea.  Some think that she walks in the dark to
Newport, and gets all her food at some ship stores there.  And one
of our fishermen vows that he met her walking on the sea, as he
rowed home one night, and she had a long red bag on her shoulder.
She is a witch, that is certain; for she won't answer me, however
politely I accost her.  But the oddest thing of all is the name she
gave to the fellow she took the house from.  What do you think she
called herself?  Of all things in the world--'Mrs. Castlewood!'  I
congratulate you on your relative."

"How very strange!" I answered.  "Oh, now I see why you connect me
with it; and I beg your pardon for having been vexed.  But let me
go and see her.  Oh, may I go at once, if you please, and speak to
her?"

"The very thing I wish--if you are not afraid.  I will come with
you, when I get my hammer.  Oh, here it is!  Mary, how clever you
are!  Now look out of the window, and you shall see Erema make up
to her grandmamma."



CHAPTER XXXIX

NOT AT HOME


Mrs. Hockin, however, had not the pleasure promised her by the
facetious Major of seeing me "make up to my grandmamma."  For
although we set off at once to catch the strange woman who had
roused so much curiosity, and though, as we passed the door of
Bruntlands, we saw her still at her post in the valley, like Major
Hockin's new letter-box, for some reason best known to herself we
could not see any more of her.  For, hurry as he might upon other
occasions, nothing would make the Major cut a corner of his winding
"drive" when descending it with a visitor.  He enjoyed every yard
of its length, because it was his own at every step, and he counted
his paces in an under-tone, to be sure of the length, for perhaps
the thousandth time.  It was long enough in a straight line, one
would have thought, but he was not the one who thought so; and
therefore he had doubled it by judicious windings, as if for the
purpose of breaking the descent.

"Three hundred and twenty-one," he said, as he came to a post,
where he meant to have a lodge as soon as his wife would let him;
"now the old woman stands fifty-five yards on, at a spot where I
mean to have an ornamental bridge, because our fine saline element
runs up there when the new moon is perigee.  My dear, I am a little
out of breath, which affects my sight for the moment.  Doubtless
that is why I do not see her."

"If I may offer an opinion," I said, "in my ignorance of all the
changes you have made, the reason why we do not see her may be that
she is gone out of sight."

"Impossible!" Major Hockin cried--"simply impossible, Erema!  She
never moves for an hour and a half.  And she was not come, was she,
when you came by?"

"I will not be certain," I answered; "but I think that I must have
seen her if she had been there, because I was looking about
particularly at all your works as we came by."

"Then she must be there still; let us tackle her."

This was easier said than done, for we found no sign of any body at
the place where she certainly had been standing less than five
minutes ago.  We stood at the very end and last corner of the
ancient river trough, where a little seam went inland from it, as
if some trifle of a brook had stolen down while it found a good
river to welcome it.  But now there was only a little oozy gloss
from the gleam of the sun upon some lees of marshy brine left among
the rushes by the last high tide.

"You see my new road and the key to my intentions?" said the Major,
forgetting all about his witch, and flourishing his geological
hammer, while standing thus at his "nucleus."  "To understand all,
you have only to stand here.  You see those leveling posts,
adjusted with scientific accuracy.  You see all those angles,
calculated with micrometric precision.  You see how the curves are
radiated--"

"It is very beautiful, I have no doubt; but you can not have Uncle
Sam's gift of machinery.  And do you understand every bit of it
yourself?"

"Erema, not a jot of it.  I like to talk about it freely when I
can, because I see all its beauties.  But as to understanding it,
my dear, you might set to, if you were an educated female, and
deliver me a lecture upon my own plan.  Intellect is, in such
matters, a bubble.  I know good bricks, good mortar, and good
foundations."

"With your great ability, you must do that," I answered, very
gently, being touched with his humility and allowance of my
opinion; "you will make a noble town of it.  But when is the
railway coming?"

"Not yet.  We have first to get our Act; and a miserable-minded
wretch, who owns nothing but a rabbit-warren, means to oppose it.
Don't let us talk of him.  It puts one out of patience when a man
can not see his own interest.  But come and see our assembly-rooms,
literary institute, baths, etc., etc.--that is what we are urging
forward now."

"But may I not go first and look for my strange namesake?  Would it
be wrong of me to call upon her?"

"No harm whatever," replied my companion; "likewise no good.  Call
fifty times, but you will get no answer.  However, it is not a very
great round, and you will understand my plans more clearly.  Step
out, my dear, as if you had got a troop of Mexicans after you.  Ah,
what a fine turn for that lot now!"  He was thinking of the war
which had broken out, and the battle of Bull's Run.

Without any such headlong speed, we soon came to the dwelling-place
of the stranger, and really for once the good Major had not much
overdone his description.  Truly it was almost tumbling down,
though massively built, and a good house long ago; and it looked
the more miserable now from being placed in a hollow of the ground,
whose slopes were tufted with rushes and thistles and ragwort.  The
lower windows were blocked up from within, the upper were shattered
and crumbling and dangerous, with blocks of cracked stone jutting
over them; and the last surviving chimney gave less smoke than a
workman's homeward whiff of his pipe to comfort and relieve the
air.

The only door that we could see was of heavy black oak, without any
knocker; but I clinched my hand, having thick gloves on, and made
what I thought a very creditable knock, while the Major stood by,
with his blue-lights up, and keenly gazed and gently smiled.

"Knock again, my dear," he said; "you don't knock half hard
enough."

I knocked again with all my might, and got a bruised hand for a
fortnight, but there was not even the momentary content produced by
an active echo.  The door was as dead as every thing else.

"Now for my hammer," my companion cried.  "This house, in all sound
law, is my own.  I will have a 'John Doe and Richard Roe'--a fine
action of ejectment.  Shall I be barred out upon my own manor?"

With hot indignation he swung his hammer, but nothing came of it
except more noise.  Then the Major grew warm and angry.

"My charter contains the right of burning witches or drowning them,
according to their color.  The execution is specially imposed upon
the bailiff of this ancient town, and he is my own pickled-pork
man.  His name is Hopkins, and I will have him out with his seal
and stick and all the rest.  Am I to be laughed at in this way?"

For we thought we heard a little screech of laughter from the
loneliness of the deep dark place, but no other answer came, and
perhaps it was only our own imagining.

"Is there no other door--perhaps one at the back?" I asked, as the
lord of the manor stamped.

"No, that has been walled up long ago.  The villain has defied me
from the very first.  Well, we shall see.  This is all very fine.
You witness that they deny the owner entrance?"

"Undoubtedly I can depose to that.  But we must not waste your
valuable time."

"After all, the poor ruin is worthless," he went on, calming down
as we retired.  "It must be leveled, and that hole filled up.  It
is quite an eye-sore to our new parade.  And no doubt it belongs to
me--no doubt it does.  The fellow who claims it was turned out of
the law.  Fancy any man turned out of the law!  Erema, in all your
far West experience, did you ever see a man bad enough to be turned
out of the law?"

"Major Hockin, how can I tell?  But I fear that their practice was
very, very sad--they very nearly always used to hang them."

"The best use--the best use a rogue can be put to.  Some big thief
has put it the opposite way, because he was afraid of his own turn.
The constitution must be upheld, and, by the Lord! it shall be--at
any rate, in East Bruntsea.  West Bruntsea is all a small-pox
warren out of my control, and a skewer in my flesh.  And some of my
tenants have gone across the line to snap their dirty hands at me."

Being once in this cue, Major Hockin went on, not talking to me
much, but rather to himself, though expecting me now and then to
say "yes;" and this I did when necessary, for his principles of
action were beyond all challenge, and the only question was how he
carried them out.

He took me to his rampart, which was sure to stop the sea, and at
the same time to afford the finest place in all Great Britain for a
view of it.  Even an invalid might sit here in perfect shelter from
the heaviest gale, and watch such billows as were not to be seen
except upon the Major's property.

"The reason of that is quite simple," he said, "and a child may see
the force of it.  In no other part of the kingdom can you find so
steep a beach fronting the southwest winds, which are ten to one of
all other winds, without any break of sand or rock outside.  Hence
we have what you can not have on a shallow shore--grand rollers:
straight from the very Atlantic, Erema; you and I have seen them.
You may see by the map that they all end here, with the wind in the
proper quarter."

"Oh, please not to talk of such horrors," I said.  "Why, your
ramparts would go like pie crust."

The Major smiled a superior smile, and after more talk we went home
to dinner.

From something more than mere curiosity, I waited at Bruntsea for a
day or two, hoping to see that strange namesake of mine who had
shown so much inhospitality.  For she must have been at home when
we made that pressing call, inasmuch as there was no other place to
hide her within the needful distance of the spot where she had
stood.  But the longer I waited, the less would she come out--to
borrow the good Irishman's expression--and the Major's pillar-box,
her favorite resort, was left in conspicuous solitude.  And when a
letter came from Sir Montague Hockin, asking leave to be at
Bruntlands on the following evening, I packed up my goods with all
haste, and set off, not an hour too soon, for Shoxford.

But before taking leave of these kind friends, I begged them to do
for me one little thing, without asking me to explain my reason,
which, indeed, was more than I could do.  I begged them, not of
course to watch Sir Montague, for that they could not well do to a
guest, but simply to keep their eyes open and prepared for any sign
of intercourse, if such there were, between this gentleman and that
strange interloper.  Major Hockin stared, and his wife looked at me
as if my poor mind must have gone astray, and even to myself my own
thought appeared absurd.  Remembering, however, what Sir Montague
had said, and other little things as well, I did not laugh as they
did.  But perhaps one part of my conduct was not right, though the
wrong (if any) had been done before that--to wit, I had faithfully
promised Mrs. Price not to say a word at Bruntlands about their
visitor's low and sinful treachery toward my cousin.  To give such
a promise had perhaps been wrong, but still without it I should
have heard nothing of matters that concerned me nearly.  And now it
seemed almost worse to keep than to break such a pledge, when I
thought of a pious, pure-minded, and holy-hearted woman, like my
dear "Aunt Mary," unwittingly brought into friendly contact with a
man of the lowest nature.  And as for the Major, instead of sitting
down with such a man to dinner, what would he have done but drive
him straightway from the door, and chase him to the utmost verge of
his manor with the peak end of his "geological hammer?"

However, away I went without a word against that contemptible and
base man, toward whom--though he never had injured me--I cherished,
for my poor cousin's sake, the implacable hatred of virtuous youth.
And a wild idea had occurred to me (as many wild ideas did now in
the crowd of things gathering round me) that this strange woman,
concealed from the world, yet keenly watching some members of it,
might be that fallen and miserable creature who had fled from a
good man with a bad one, because he was more like herself--
Flittamore, Lady Castlewood.  Not that she could be an "old woman"
yet, but she might look old, either by disguise, or through her own
wickedness; and every body knows how suddenly those southern
beauties fall off, alike in face and figure.  Mrs. Price had not
told me what became of her, or even whether she was dead or alive,
but merely said, with a meaning look, that she was "punished" for
her sin, and I had not ventured to inquire how, the subject being
so distasteful.

To my great surprise, and uneasiness as well, I had found at
Bruntlands no letter whatever, either to the Major or myself, from
Uncle Sam or any other person at the saw-mills.  There had not been
time for any answer to my letter of some two months back, yet being
alarmed by the Sawyer's last tidings, I longed, with some terror,
for later news.  And all the United Kingdom was now watching with
tender interest the dismemberment, as it almost appeared, of the
other mighty Union.  Not with malice, or snug satisfaction, as the
men of the North in their agony said, but certainly without any
proper anguish yet, and rather as a genial and sprightly spectator,
whose love of fair play perhaps kindles his applause of the spirit
and skill of the weaker side.  "'Tis a good fight--let them fight
it out!" seemed to be the general sentiment; but in spite of some
American vaunt and menace (which of late years had been galling)
every true Englishman deeply would have mourned the humiliation of
his kindred.

In this anxiety for news I begged that my letters might be
forwarded under cover to the postmistress at Shoxford, and bearing
my initials.  For now I had made up my mind to let Mrs. Busk know
whatever I could tell her.  I had found her a cross and well-
educated woman, far above her neighbors, and determined to remain
so.  Gossip, that universal leveler, theoretically she despised;
and she had that magnificent esteem for rank which works so
beautifully in England.  And now when my good nurse reasonably said
that, much as she loved to be with me, her business would allow
that delight no longer, and it also came home to my own mind that
money would be running short again, and small hope left in this
dreadful civil war of our nugget escaping pillage (which made me
shudder horribly at internal discord), I just did this--I dismissed
Betsy, or rather I let her dismiss herself, which she might not
have altogether meant to do, although she threatened it so often.
For here she had nothing to do but live well, and protest against
tricks of her own profession which she practiced as necessary laws
at home; and so, with much affection, for the time we parted.

Mrs. Busk was delighted at her departure, for she never had liked
to be criticised so keenly while she was doing her very best.  And
as soon as the wheels of Betsy's fly had shown their last spoke at
the corner, she told me, with a smile, that her mind had been made
up to give us notice that very evening to seek for better lodgings.
But she could not wish for a quieter, pleasanter, or more easily
pleased young lady than I was without any mischief-maker; and so,
on the spur of the moment, I took her into my own room, while her
little girl minded the shop, and there and then I told her who I
was, and what I wanted.

And now she behaved most admirably.  Instead of expressing
surprise, she assured me that all along she had felt there was
something, and that I must be somebody.  Lovely as my paintings
were (which I never heard, before or since, from any impartial
censor), she had known that it could not be that alone which had
kept me so long in their happy valley.  And now she did hope I
would do her the honor to stay beneath her humble roof, though
entitled to one so different.  And was the fairy ring in the
church-yard made of all my family?

I replied that too surely this was so, and that nothing would
please me better than to find, according to my stature, room to
sleep inside it as soon as ever I should have solved the mystery of
its origin.  At the moment this was no exaggeration, so depressing
was the sense of fighting against the unknown so long, with
scarcely any one to stand by me, or avenge me if I fell.  And
Betsy's departure, though I tried to take it mildly, had left me
with a readiness to catch my breath.

But to dwell upon sadness no more than need be (a need as sure as
hunger), it was manifest now to my wondering mind that once more I
had chanced upon a good, and warm, and steadfast heart.  Every body
is said to be born, whether that happens by night or day, with a
certain little widowed star, which has lost its previous mortal,
concentrating from a billion billion of miles, or leagues, or
larger measure, intense, but generally invisible, radiance upon him
or her; and to take for the moment this old fable as of serious
meaning, my star was to find bad facts at a glance, but no bad folk
without long gaze.



CHAPTER XL

THE MAN AT LAST


This new alliance with Mrs. Busk not only refreshed my courage, but
helped me forward most importantly.  In truth, if it had not been
for this I never could have borne what I had to bear, and met the
perils which I had to meet.  For I had the confidence of feeling
now that here was some one close at hand, an intelligent person,
and well acquainted with the place and neighborhood, upon whom I
could rely for warning, succor, and, if the worst should come to
the very worst, revenge.  It is true that already I had Jacob Rigg,
and perhaps the protector promised by my cousin; but the former was
as ignorant as he was honest, and of the latter, as he made no
sign, how could I tell any thing?

Above all things, Mrs. Busk's position, as mistress of the letters,
gave me very great advantage both for offense and defense.  For
without the smallest breach of duty or of loyal honor she could see
that my letters passed direct to me or from me, as the case might
be, at the same time that she was bound to observe all epistles
addressed to strangers or new-comers in her district, which
extended throughout the valley.  And by putting my letters in the
Portsmouth bag, instead of that for Winchester, I could freely
correspond with any of my friends without any one seeing name or
postmark in the neighboring villages.

It is needless to say that I had long since explored and examined
with great diligence that lonely spot where my grandfather met his
terrible and mysterious fate.  Not that there seemed to be any hope
now, after almost nineteen years, of finding even any token of the
crime committed there.  Only that it was natural for me, feeling
great horror of this place, to seek to know it thoroughly.

For this I had good opportunity, because the timid people of the
valley, toward the close of day, would rather trudge another half
mile of the homeward road than save brave legs at the thumping cost
of hearts not so courageous.  For the planks were now called
"Murder-bridge;" and every body knew that the red spots on it,
which could never be seen by daylight, began to gleam toward the
hour of the deed, and glowed (as if they would burn the wood) when
the church clock struck eleven.

This phenomenon was beyond my gifts of observation; and knowing
that my poor grandfather had scarcely set foot on the bridge, if
ever he set foot there at all--which at present was very doubtful--
also that he had fallen backward, and only bled internally, I could
not reconcile tradition (however recent) with proven truth.  And
sure of no disturbance from the step of any native, here I often
sat in a little bowered shelter of my own, well established up the
rise, down which the path made zigzag, and screened from that and
the bridge as well by sheaf of twigs and lop of leaves.  It was a
little forward thicket, quite detached from the upland copse, to
which perhaps it had once belonged, and crusted up from the meadow
slope with sod and mould in alternate steps.  And being quite the
elbow of a foreland of the meadow-reach, it yielded almost a
"bird's-eye view" of the beautiful glade and the wandering brook.

One evening when I was sitting here, neither drawing, nor working,
nor even thinking with any set purpose, but idly allowing my mind
to rove, like the rivulet, without any heed, I became aware of a
moving figure in the valley.  At first it did not appear to me as a
thing at all worth notice; it might be a very straightforward cow,
or a horse, coming on like a stalking-horse, keeping hind-legs
strictly behind, in direct desire of water.  I had often seen those
sweet things that enjoy four legs walking in the line of distance
as if they were no better off than we are, kindly desiring,
perhaps, to make the biped spectator content with himself.  And I
was content to admire this cow or horse, or whatever it might be,
without any more than could be helped of that invidious feeling
which has driven the human race now to establish its right to a
tail, and its hope of four legs.  So little, indeed, did I think of
what I saw, that when among the hazel twigs, parted carelessly by
my hand, a cluster of nuts hung manifest, I gathered it, and began
to crack and eat, although they were scarcely ripe yet.

But while employed in this pleasant way, I happened to glance again
through my leafy screen, and then I distinguished the figure in the
distance as that of a man walking rapidly.  He was coming down the
mill-stream meadow toward the wooden bridge, carrying a fishing
rod, but clearly not intent on angling.  For instead of following
the course of the stream, he was keeping quite away from it,
avoiding also the footpath, or, at any rate, seeming to prefer the
long shadows of the trees and the tufted places.  This made me look
at him, and very soon I shrank into my nest and watched him.

As he came nearer any one could tell that he was no village
workman, bolder than the rest, and venturesome to cross the
"Murder-bridge" in his haste to be at home.  The fishing rod alone
was enough to show this when it came into clearer view; for our
good people, though they fished sometimes, only used rough rods of
their own making, without any varnish or brass thing for the line.
And the man was of different height and walk and dress from any of
our natives.

"Who can he be?" I whispered to myself, as my heart began to beat
heavily, and then seemed almost to stop, as it answered, "This is
the man who was in the churchyard."  Ignoble as it was, and
contemptible, and vile, and traitorous to all duty, my first
thought was about my own escape; for I felt that if this man saw me
there he would rush up the hill and murder me.  Within pistol-shot
of the very place where my grandfather had been murdered--a lonely
place, an unholy spot, and I was looking at the hand that did it.

The thought of this made me tremble so, though well aware that my
death might ensue from a twig on the rustle, or a leaf upon the
flutter, that my chance of making off unseen was gone ere I could
seize it.  For now the man was taking long strides over the worn-
out planks of the bridge, disdaining the hand-rail, and looking
upward, as if to shun sight of the footing.  Advancing thus, he
must have had his gaze point-blank upon my lair of leafage; but,
luckily for me, there was gorse upon the ridge, and bracken and
rag-thistles, so that none could spy up and through the footing of
my lurking-place.  But if any person could have spied me, this man
was the one to do it.  So carefully did he scan the distance and
inspect the foreground, as if he were resolved that no eye should
be upon him while he was doing what he came to do.  And he even
drew forth a little double telescope, such as are called
"binoculars," and fixed it on the thicket which hid me from him,
and then on some other dark places.

No effort would compose or hush the heavy beating of my heart; my
lips were stiffened with dread of loud breath, and all power of
motion left me.  For even a puff of wind might betray me, the
ruffle of a spray, or the lifting of a leaf, or the random bounce
of a beetle.  Great peril had encompassed me ere now, but never had
it grasped me as this did, and paralyzed all the powers of my body.
Rather would I have stood in the midst of a score of Mexican rovers
than thus in the presence of that one man.  And yet was not this
the very thing for which I had waited, longed, and labored?  I
scorned myself for this craven loss of nerve, but that did not
enable me to help it.  In this benumbed horror I durst not even
peep at the doings of my enemy; but presently I became aware that
he had moved from the end of the planks (where he stood for some
time as calmly as if he had done nothing there), and had passed
round the back of the hawthorn-tree, and gone down to the place
where the body was found, and was making most narrow and minute
search there.  And now I could watch him without much danger,
standing as I did well above him, while his eyes were steadfastly
bent downward.  And, not content with eyesight only, he seemed to
be feeling every blade of grass or weed, every single stick or
stone, craning into each cranny of the ground, and probing every
clod with his hands.  Then, after vainly searching with the very
utmost care all the space from the hawthorn trunk to the meadow-
leet (which was dry as usual), he ran, in a fury of impatience, to
his rod, which he had stuck into the bank, as now I saw, and drew
off the butt end, and removed the wheel, or whatever it is that
holds the fishing line; and this butt had a long spike to it,
shining like a halberd in a picture.

This made me shudder; but my spirit was returning, and therewith my
power of reasoning, and a deep stir of curiosity.  After so many
years and such a quantity of searching, what could there still be
left to seek for in this haunted and horrible place?  And who was
the man that was looking for it?

The latter question partly solved itself.  It must be the murderer,
and no other, whoever he might be among the many black spots of
humanity.  But as to the other point, no light could be thrown upon
it, unless the search should be successful, and perhaps not even
then.  But now this anxiety, and shame of terror, made me so bold--
for I can not call it brave--that I could not rest satisfied where
I was, and instead of blessing every leaf and twig that hid me from
the enemy, nothing would do for me but to creep nearer, in spite of
that truculent long bright spike.

I thought of my father, and each fibre of my frame seemed to harden
with vigor and fleetness.  Every muscle of my body could be trusted
now.  I had always been remarkably light of foot.  Could a man of
that age catch me?  It was almost as much as Firm Gundry could do,
as in childish days I had proved to him.  And this man, although
his hair was not gray, must be on the slow side of fifty now, and
perhaps getting short of his very wicked breath.  Then I thought of
poor Firm, and of good Uncle Sam, and how they scorned poltroonery;
and, better still, I thought of that great Power which always had
protected me: in a word, I resolved to risk it.

But I had not reckoned upon fire-arms, which such a scoundrel was
pretty sure to have; and that idea struck cold upon my valor.
Nevertheless, I would not turn back.  With no more sound than a
field-mouse makes in the building of its silken nest, and feet as
light as the step of the wind upon the scarcely ruffled grass, I
quitted my screen, and went gliding down a hedge, or rather the
residue of some old hedge, which would shelter me a little toward
the hollow of the banks.  I passed low places, where the man must
have seen me if he had happened to look up; but he was stooping
with his back to me, and working in the hollow of the dry water
trough.  He was digging with the long spike of his rod, and I heard
the rattle of each pebble that he struck.

Before he stood up again, to ease his back and to look at the
ground which he still had to turn, I was kneeling behind a short,
close-branched holly, the very last bush of the hedge-row, scarcely
fifteen yards from the hawthorn-tree.  It was quite impossible to
get nearer without coming face to face with him.  And now I began
again to tremble, but with a great effort conquered it.

The man was panting with his labor, and seemed to be in a vile
temper too.  He did not swear, but made low noises full of
disappointment.  And then he caught up his tool, with a savage
self-control, and fell to again.

Now was my time to see what he was like, and engrave him on my
memory.  But, lo! in a moment I need not do that.  The face was the
bad image of my father's.  A lowered, and vicious, and ill-bred
image of a noble countenance--such as it was just possible to dream
that my dear father's might have fallen to, if his mind and soul
had plunged away from the good inborn and implanted in them.  The
figure was that of a tall strong man, with shoulders rather
slouching, and a habit of keeping his head thrown back, which made
a long chin look longer.  Altogether he seemed a perilous foe, and
perhaps a friend still more perilous.

Be he what he might, he was working very hard.  Not one of all
Uncle Sam's men, to my knowledge, least of all Martin, would have
worked so hard.  With his narrow and ill-adapted tool he contrived
to turn over, in less than twenty minutes, the entire bed of the
meadow-leet, or trough, for a length of about ten yards.  Then he
came to the mouth, where the water of the main stream lapped back
into it, and he turned up the bottom as far as he could reach, and
waited for the mud he had raised to clear away.  When this had
flowed down with the stream, he walked in for some little distance
till the pool grew deep; but in spite of all his labor, there was
nothing.

Meanwhile the sunset glow was failing, and a gray autumnal haze
crept up the tranquil valley.  Shadows waned and faded into dimness
more diffuse, and light grew soft and vague and vaporous.  The
gleam of water, and the gloss of grass, and deep relief of trees,
began to lose their several phase and mingle into one large
twilight blend.  And cattle, from their milking sheds, came lowing
for more pasture; and the bark of a shepherd's dog rang quick, as
if his sheep were drowsy.

In the midst of innocent sights and sounds that murderer's heart
misgave him.  He left his vain quest off, and gazed, with fear and
hate of nature's beauty, at the change from day to night which had
not waited for him.  Some touch of his childhood moved him perhaps,
some thought of times when he played "I spy," or listened to
twilight ghost tales; at any rate, as he rose and faced the
evening, he sighed heavily.

Then he strode away; and although he passed me almost within length
of his rod, there was little fear of his discovering me, because
his mind was elsewhere.

It will, perhaps, be confessed by all who are not as brave as lions
that so far I had acquitted myself pretty well in this trying
matter.  Horribly scared as I was at first, I had not allowed this
to conquer me, but had even rushed into new jeopardy.  But now the
best part of my courage was spent; and when the tall stranger
refixed his rod and calmly recrossed those ominous planks, I durst
not set forth on the perilous errand of spying out his ways and
tracking him.  A glance was enough to show the impossibility in
those long meadows of following without being seen in this stage of
the twilight.  Moreover, my nerves had been tried too long, and
presence of mind could not last forever.  All I could do,
therefore, was to creep as far as the trunk of the hawthorn-tree,
and thence observe that my enemy did not return by the way he had
come, but hastened down the dusky valley.

One part of his labors has not been described, though doubtless a
highly needful one.  To erase the traces of his work, or at least
obscure them to a careless eye, when he had turned as much ground
as he thought it worth his while to meddle with, he trod it back
again to its level as nearly as might be, and then (with a can out
of his fishing basket) sluiced the place well with the water of the
stream.  This made it look to any heedless person, who would not
descend to examine it, as if there had been nothing more than a
little reflux from the river, caused by a flush from the mill-pond.
This little stratagem increased my fear of a cunning and active
villain.



CHAPTER XLI

A STRONG TEMPTATION


Now it will be said, and I also knew, that there was nothing as
yet, except most frail and feeble evidence, to connect that
nameless stranger with the crime charged upon my father.  Indeed,
it might be argued well that there was no evidence at all, only
inference and suspicion.  That, however, was no fault of mine; and
I felt as sure about it as if I had seen him in the very act.  And
this conclusion was not mine alone; for Mrs. Busk, a most clever
woman, and the one who kept the post-office, entirely agreed with
me that there could be no doubt on earth about it.

But when she went on to ask me what it was my intention to do next,
for the moment I could do nothing more than inquire what her
opinion was.  And she told me that she must have a good night's
rest before advising any thing.  For the thought of having such a
heinous character in her own delivery district was enough to
unhinge her from her postal duties, some of which might be useful
to me.

With a significant glance she left me to my own thoughts, which
were sad enough, and too sad to be worth recording.  For Mrs. Busk
had not the art of rousing people and cheering them, such as Betsy
Strouss, my old nurse, had, perhaps from her knowledge of the
nursery.  My present landlady might be the more sagacious and
sensible woman of the two, and therefore the better adviser; but
for keeping one up to the mark she was not in any way equal to
Betsy.

There is no ingratitude in saying this, because she herself
admitted it.  A clever woman, with a well-balanced mind, knows what
she can do, and wherein she fails, better than a man of her own
proportion does.  And Mrs. Busk often lamented, without much real
mortification, that she had not been "born sympathetic."

All the more perhaps for that, she was born sagacious, which is a
less pleasing, but, in a bitter pinch, a more really useful,
quality.  And before I had time to think much of her defects, in
the crowd of more important thought, in she came again, with a
letter in her hand, and a sparkle of triumph in her small black
eyes.  After looking back along the passage, and closing my door,
she saw that my little bay-window had its old-fashioned shutters
fastened, and then, in a very low whisper, she said, "What you want
to know is here, miss."

"Indeed!" I answered, in my usual voice.  "How can you know that?
The letter is sealed."

"Hush!  Would you have me ruined for your sake?  This was at the
bottom of the Nepheton bag.  It fell on the floor.  That was God's
will, to place it in your power."

"It is not in my power," I answered, whispering in my turn, and
staring at it, in the strong temptation.  "I have no right even to
look at it.  It is meant for some one else, and sealed."

"The seal is nothing.  I can manage that.  Another drop of wax--and
I strike our stamp by accident over the breakage.  I refuse to know
any thing about it.  I am too busy with the other letters.  Five
minutes--lock the door--and I will come again."

This was a desperate conflict for me, worse even than bodily
danger.  My first impulse was to have nothing to do with it--even
to let the letter lie untouched, and, if possible, unglanced at.
But already it was too late for the eyes to turn away.  The address
had flashed upon me before I thought of any thing, and while Mrs.
Busk held it up to me.  And now that address was staring at me,
like a contemptuous challenge, while the seal, the symbol of
private rights and deterrent honor, lay undermost.  The letter was
directed to "H. W. C., Post-office, Newport, Sussex."  The writing
was in round hand, and clear, so as not to demand any scrutiny, and
to seem like that of a lawyer's clerk, and the envelope was of thin
repellent blue.

My second impulse was to break the letter open and read it without
shrinking.  Public duty must conquer private scruples.  Nothing but
the hand of Providence itself could have placed this deadly secret
in my power so amazingly.  Away with all squeamishness, and perhaps
prevent more murder.

But that "perhaps" gave me sudden pause.  I had caught up the
letter, and stood near the candle to soften the wax and lift the
cover with a small sharp paper-knife, when it flashed on my mind
that my cousin would condemn and scorn what I was doing.
Unconsciously I must have made him now my standard of human
judgment, or what made me think of him at that moment?  I threw
down the letter, and then I knew.  The image of Lord Castlewood had
crossed my mind, because the initials were his own--those of
Herbert William Castlewood.  This strange coincidence--if it were,
indeed, an accident--once more set me thinking.  Might not this
letter be from his agent, of whom he had spoken as my protector
here, but to whom as all unseen I scarcely ever gave a thought?
Might not young Stixon, who so often was at Bruntsea, be employed
to call at Newport for such letters, and return with them to his
master?  It was not very likely, for my cousin had the strongest
contempt of anonymous doings.  Still it was possible, and the bare
possibility doubled my reluctance to break the seal.

For one minute longer I stood in doubt, and then honor and candor
and truth prevailed.  If any other life had been in peril but my
own, duty to another might have overridden all.  But duty to one's
self, if overpushed in such a case, would hold some taint of
cowardice.  So I threw the letter, with a sense of loathing, on a
chair.  Whatever it might contain, it should pass, at least for me,
inviolate.

Now when Mrs. Busk came to see what I had done, or rather left
undone, she flew into a towering passion, until she had no time to
go on with it.  The rattle of the rickety old mail-cart, on its way
to Winchester that night, was heard, and the horn of the driver as
he passed the church.

"Give it me.  'A mercy!  A young natural, that you are!" the good
woman cried, as she flung out of the room to dash her office stamp
upon that hateful missive, and to seal the leathern bag.  "Seal,
indeed!  Inviolate!  How many seals have I got to make every day of
my life?"

I heard a great thump from the corner of the shop where the
business of the mails was conducted; and she told me afterward that
she was so put out, that broken that seal should be--one way or
another.  Accordingly she smashed it with the office stamp, which
was rather like a woman's act, methought; and then, having broken
it, she never looked inside--which, perhaps, was even more so.

When she recovered her leisure and serenity, and came in, to
forgive me and be forgiven, we resolved to dismiss the moral aspect
of the question, as we never should agree about it, although Mrs.
Busk was not so certain as she had been, when she found that the
initials were the initials of a lord.  And then I asked her how she
came to fix upon that letter among so many others, and to feel so
sure that it came from my treacherous enemy.

"In the first place, I know every letter from Nepheton," she
answered, very sensibly.  "There are only fourteen people that
write letters in the place, and twelve of those fourteen buy their
paper in my shop--there is no shop at all at Nepheton.  In the next
place, none of them could write a hand like that, except the parson
and the doctor, who are far above disguise.  And two other things
made me certain as could be.  That letter was written at the 'Green
Man' ale-house; not on their paper, nor yet with their ink; but
being in great hurry, it was dusted with their sand--a sand that
turns red upon ink, miss.  And the time of dispatch there is just
what he would catch, by walking fast after his dig where you saw
him, going in that direction too, and then having his materials
ready to save time.  And if all that is not enough to convince you,
miss--you remember that you told me our old sexton's tale?"

"To be sure I do.  The first evening I was left alone here.  And
you have been so kind, there is nothing I would hide from you."

"Well, miss, the time of old Jacob's tale is fixed by the death of
poor old Sally Mock; and the stranger came again after you were
here, just before the death of the miller's eldest daughter, and
you might almost have seen him.  Poor thing! we all called her the
'flower of the Moon,' meaning our little river.  What a fine young
woman she was, to be sure!  Whenever we heard of any strangers
about, we thought they were prowling after her.  I was invited to
her funeral, and I went, and nothing could be done nicer.  But they
never will be punctual with burials here; they like to dwell on
them, and keep the bell going, for the sake of the body, and the
souls that must come after it.  And so, when it was done, I was
twenty minutes late for the up mail and the cross-country post, and
had to move my hands pretty sharp, I can assure you.  That doesn't
matter; I got through it, with the driver of the cart obliging, by
means of some beer and cold bacon.  But what I feared most was the
Nepheton bag, having seen the old man at the funeral, and knowing
what they do afterward.  I could not return him 'too late' again,
or he would lose his place for certain, and a shilling a day made
all the difference to him, between wife and no wife.  The old pair
without it must go to the workhouse, and never see one another.
However, when I was despairing quite of him, up he comes with his
bag quite correct, but only one letter to sort in it, and that
letter was, miss, the very identical of the one you held in your
hands just now.  And a letter as like it as two peas had come when
we buried old Sally.  It puzzled me then, but I had no clew to it;
only now, you see, putting this and that together, the things we
behold must have some meaning for us; and to let them go without it
is against the will of God; especially when at the bottom of the
bag."

"If you hear so soon of any stranger in the valley," I asked, to
escape the re-opening of the opening question, "how can that man
come and go--a man of remarkable stature and appearance--without
any body asking who he is?"

"You scarcely could have put it better, miss, for me to give the
answer.  They do ask who he is, and they want to know it, and would
like any body to tell them.  But being of a different breed, as
they are, from all outside the long valley, speaking also with a
different voice, they fear to talk so freely out of their own ways
and places.  Any thing they can learn in and out among themselves,
they will learn; but any thing out of that they let go, in the
sense of outlandish matter.  Bless you, miss, if your poor
grandfather had been shot any where else in England, how different
it would have been for him!"

"For us, you mean, Mrs. Busk.  Do you think the man who did it had
that in his mind?"

"Not unless he knew the place, as few know it.  No, that was an
accident of his luck, as many other things have been.  But the best
luck stops at last, Miss Erema; and unless I am very much mistaken,
you will be the stop of his.  I shall find out, in a few days,
where he came from, where he staid, and when he went away.  I
suppose you mean to let him go away?"

"What else am I to do?" I asked.  "I have no evidence at all
against him; only my own ideas.  The police would scarcely take it
up, even if--"

"Oh, don't talk of them.  They spoil every thing.  And none of our
people would say a word, or care to help us, if it came to that.
The police are all strangers, and our people hate them.  And,
indeed, I believe that the worst thing ever done was the meddling
of that old Jobbins.  The old stupe is still alive at Petersfield,
and as pompous-headed as ever.  My father would have been the man
for your sad affair, miss, if the police had only been invented in
his time.  Ah, yes, he was sharp!  Not a Moonstock man--you may
take your oath of that, miss--but a good honest native from Essex.
But he married my mother, a Moonstock woman; or they would not put
up with me here at all.  You quality people have your ideas to hold
by, and despise all others, and reasonable in your opinions; but
you know nothing--nothing--nothing--of the stiffness of the people
under you."

"How should I know any thing of that?" I answered; "all these
things are new to me.  I have not been brought up in this country,
as you know.  I come from a larger land, where your stiffness may
have burst out into roughness, from having so much room suddenly.
But tell me what you think now your father would have done in such
a case as mine is."

"Miss Erema, he was that long-headed that nobody could play leap-
frog with him.  None of them ever cleared over his barrel.  He
walked into this village fifty-five years back, this very month,
with his spade upon his shoulder and the knowledge of every body in
his eye.  They all put up against him, but they never put him down;
and in less than three months he went to church, I do assure you,
with the only daughter of the only baker.  After that he went into
the baking line himself; he turned his spade into a shovel, as he
said, and he introduced new practices."

"Oh, Mrs. Busk, not adulteration?"

"No, miss, no!  The very last thing he would think of.  Only the
good use of potatoes in the bread, when flour was frightful bad and
painful dear.  What is the best meal of the day? he used to reason.
Dinner.  And why?  Why, because of the potatoes.  If I can make
people take potato for their breakfast, and potato for their supper
too, I am giving them three meals a day instead of one.  And the
health of the village corresponded to it."

"Oh, but, Mrs. Busk, he might have made them do it by persuasion,
or at least with their own knowledge--"

"No, miss, no!  The whole nature of our people, Moonstock or out of
it, is never to take victuals by any sort of persuasion.  If St.
Paul was to come and preach, 'Eat this or that,' all I had of it in
the shop would go rotten.  They hate any meddling with their
likings, and they suspect doctor's rubbish in all of it."

"I am quite of their opinion," I replied; "and I am glad to hear of
their independence.  I always used to hear that in England none of
the poor people dared have a will of their own."

Mrs. Busk lifted up her hands to express amazement at my ignorance,
and said that she "must run away and put the shutters up, or else
the policeman would come rapping, and look for a glass of beer,
which he had no right to till it came to the bottom of the firkin;
and this one was only tapped last Sunday week.  Don't you ever
think of the police, miss."

Probably this was good advice, and it quite agreed with the
opinions of others, and my own impressions as to the arrogant
lethargy of "the force," as they called themselves, in my father's
case.  Mrs. Busk had more activity and intelligence in her little
head than all the fat sergeants and inspectors of the county,
helmet, belt, and staff, and all.



CHAPTER XLII

MASTER WITHYPOOL


At first I was much inclined to run for help, or at least for
counsel, either to Lord Castlewood or to Major Hockin; but further
consideration kept me from doing any thing of the kind.  In the
first place, neither of them would do much good; for my cousin's
ill health would prevent him from helping me, even if his strange
view of the case did not, while the excellent Major was much too
hot and hasty for a delicate task like this.  And, again, I might
lose the most valuable and important of all chances by being away
from the spot just now.  And so I remained at Shoxford for a while,
keeping strict watch upon the stranger's haunt, and asking about
him by means of Mrs. Busk.

"I have heard more about him, miss," she said one day, when the
down letters had been dispatched, which happened about middle-day.
"He has been here only those three times this summer, upon excuse
of fishing always.  He stays at old Wellham, about five miles down
the river, where the people are not true Moonites.  And one thing
that puzzles them is, that although he puts up there simply for the
angling, he always chooses times when the water is so low that to
catch fish is next to impossible.  He left his fishing quarters
upon the very day after you saw him searching so; and he spoke as
if he did not mean to come again this season.  And they say that
they don't want him neither, he is such a morose, close-fisted man;
and drinking nothing but water, there is very little profit with
him."

"And did you find out what his name is?  How cleverly you have
managed!"

"He passes by the name of 'Captain Brown;' but the landlord of his
inn, who has been an old soldier, is sure he was never in the army,
nor any other branch of the service.  He thinks that he lives by
inventing things, for he is always at some experiments, and one of
his great points is to make a lamp that will burn and move about
under water.  To be sure you see the object of that, miss?"

"No, really, Mrs. Busk, I can not.  I have not your penetration."

"Why, of course, to find what he can not find upon land.  There is
something of great importance there, either for its value or its
meaning.  Have you ever been told that your poor grandfather wore
any diamonds or precious jewels?"

"No.  I have asked about that most especially.  He had nothing
about him to tempt a robber.  He was a very strong-willed man, and
he hated outward trumpery."

"Then it must be something that this man himself has dropped,
unless it were a document, or any other token, missing from his
lordship.  And few things of that sort would last for twenty years
almost."

"Nineteen years the day after to-morrow," I answered, with a glance
at my pocket-book.  "I determined to be here on that very day.  No
doubt I am very superstitious.  But one thing I can not understand
is this--what reason can there have been for his letting so many
years pass, and then hunting like this?"

"No one can answer that question, miss, without knowing more than
we know.  But many reasons might be supposed.  He might have been
roving abroad, for instance, just as you and your father have been.
Or he might not have known that the thing was there; or it might
not have been of importance till lately; or he might have been
afraid, until something else happened.  Does he know that you are
now in England?"

"How can I possibly tell, Mrs. Busk?  He seems to know a great deal
too much.  He found me out when I was at Colonel Gundry's.  At
least I conclude so, from what I know now; but I hope he does not
know"--and at such a dreadful idea I shuddered.

"I am almost sure that he can not know it," the good postmistress
answered, "or he would have found means to put an end to you.  That
would have been his first object."

"But, Mrs. Busk," I said, being much disturbed by her calmness,
"surely, surely he is not to be allowed to make an end of every
one!  I came to this country with the full intention of going into
every thing.  But I did not mean at all, except in my very best
moments, to sacrifice myself.  It seems too bad--too bad to think
of."

"So it is, Miss Erema," Mrs. Busk replied, without any congenial
excitement.  "It does seem hard for them that have the liability on
them.  But still, miss, you have always shown such a high sense of
duty, and of what you were about--"

"I can't--I can not.  There are times, I do assure you, when I am
fit for nothing, Mrs. Busk, and wish myself back in America.  And
if this man is to have it all his own way--"

"Not he, miss--not he.  Be you in no hurry.  Could he even have his
way with our old miller?  No; Master Withypool was too many for
him."

"That is a new thing.  You never told me that.  What did he try to
do with the miller?"

"I don't justly know what it was, Miss Erema.  I never spoke to
miller about it, and, indeed, I have had no time since I heard of
it.  But those that told me said that the tall strange gentleman
was terribly put out, and left the gate with a black cloud upon his
face, and the very next day the miller's daughter died, quite
sudden and mysterious."

"How very strange!  But now I have got a new idea.  Has the miller
a strong high dam to his pond, and a good stout sluice-gate at the
end!"

"Yes, miss, to be sure he has," said Mrs. Busk; "otherwise how
could he grind at all, when the river is so low as it is
sometimes?"

"Then I know what he wanted, and I will take a leaf out of his own
book--the miscreant!  He wanted the miller to stop back the water
and leave the pool dry at the 'Murder-bridge.'  Would it be
possible for him to do that?"

"I can not tell you, miss; but your thought is very clever.  It is
likely enough that he did want that, though he never would dare to
ask without some pretense--some other cause I mean, to show for it.
He may have been thinking that whatever he was wanting was likely
to be under water.  And that shows another thing, if it is so."

"Mrs. Busk, my head goes round with such a host of complications.
I do my best to think them out--and then there comes another!"

"No, miss; this only clears things up a little.  If the man can not
be sure whether what he is looking for is on land or under water,
it seems to me almost to show that it was lost at the murder time
in the dark and flurry.  A man would know if he dropped any thing
in the water by daylight, from the splash and the ripple, and so
on, for the stream is quite slow at that corner.  He dropped it,
miss, when he did the deed, or else it came away from his
lordship."

"Nothing was lost, as I said before, from the body of my
grandfather, so far at least as our knowledge goes.  Whatever was
lost was the murderer's.  Now please to tell me all about the
miller, and how I may get round him."

"You make me laugh in the middle of black things, miss, by the way
you have of putting them.  But as to the miller--Master Withypool
is a wonder, as concerns the ladies.  He is one of those men that
stand up for every thing when a man tries upper side of them.  But
let a woman come, and get up under, and there he is--a pie crust
lifted.  Why, I, at my age, could get round him, as you call it.
But you, miss--and more than that, you are something like his
daughter; and the old man frets after her terrible.  Go you into
his yard, and just smile upon him, miss, and if the Moon River can
be stopped, he'll stop it for you."

This seemed a very easy way to do it.  But I told Mrs. Busk that I
would pay well also, for the loss of a day's work at the mill was
more than fifty smiles could make up.

But she told me, above all things, not to do that.  For old Master
Withypool was of that sort that he would stand for an hour with his
hands in his pocket for a half-penny, if not justly owing from him.
But nothing more angered him than a bribe to step outside of his
duty.  He had plenty of money, and was proud of it.  But sooner
would he lose a day's work to do a kindness, when he was sure of
having right behind it, than take a week's profit without earning
it.  And very likely that was where the dark man failed, from
presuming that money would do every thing.  However, there was
nothing like judging for one's self; and if I would like to be
introduced, she could do it for me with the best effect; taking as
she did a good hundred-weight of best "households" from him every
week, although not herself in the baking line, but always keeping
quartern bags, because the new baker did adulterate so.

I thought of her father, and how things work round; but that they
would do without remarks of mine.  So I said nothing on that point,
but asked whether Master Withypool would require any introduction.
And to this Mrs. Busk said, "Oh dear, no!"  And her throat had been
a little rough since Sunday, and the dog was chained tight, even if
any dog would bite a sweet young lady; and to her mind the miller
would be more taken up and less fit to vapor into obstacles, if I
were to hit upon him all alone, just when he came out to the bank
of his cabbage garden, not so very long after his dinner, to smoke
his pipe and to see his things a-growing.

It was time to get ready if I meant to catch him then, for he
always dined at one o'clock, and the mill was some three or four
meadows up the stream; therefore as soon as Mrs. Busk had re-
assured me that she was quite certain of my enemy's departure, I
took my drawing things and set forth to call upon Master Withypool.

Passing through the church-yard, which was my nearest way, and
glancing sadly at the "fairy ring," I began to have some uneasiness
about the possible issue of my new scheme.  Such a thing required
more thinking out than I had given to it.  For instance, what
reason could I give the miller for asking so strange a thing of
him?  And how could the whole of the valley be hindered from making
the greatest talk about the stoppage of their own beloved Moon,
even if the Moon could be stopped without every one of them rushing
down to see it?  And if it was so talked of, would it not be
certain to come to the ears of that awful man?  And if so, how long
before he found me out, and sent me to rejoin my family?

These thoughts compelled me to be more discreet; and having lately
done a most honorable thing, in refusing to read that letter, I
felt a certain right to play a little trick now of a purely
harmless character.  I ran back therefore to my writing-desk, and
took from its secret drawer a beautiful golden American eagle, a
large coin, larger and handsomer than any in the English coinage.
Uncle Sam gave it to me on my birthday, and I would not have taken
50 pounds  for it.  With this I hurried to that bridge of fear,
which I had not yet brought myself to go across; and then, not to
tell any story about it, I snipped a little hole in the corner of
my pocket, while my hand was still steady ere I had to mount the
bridge.  Then pinching that hole up with a squeeze, I ran and got
upon that wicked bridge, and then let go.  The heavy gold coin fell
upon the rotten plank, and happily rolled into the water, as if it
were glad not to tempt its makers to any more sin for the sake of
it.

Shutting up thought, for fear of despising myself for the coinage
of such a little trick, I hurried across the long meadow to the
mill, and went through the cow-gate into the yard, and the dog
began to bark at me.  Seeing that he had a strong chain on, I
regarded him with lofty indignation.  "Do you know what Jowler
would do to you?" I said; "Jowler, a dog worth ten of you.  He
would take you by the neck and drop you into that pond for daring
to insult his mistress!"  The dog appeared to feel the force of my
remarks, for he lay down again, and with one eye watched me in a
manner amusing, but insidious.  Then, taking good care to keep out
of his reach, I went to the mill-pond and examined it.

It looked like a very nice pond indeed, long, and large, and well
banked up, not made into any particular shape, but producing little
rushy elbows.  The water was now rather low, and very bright
(though the Moon itself is not a crystal stream), and a school of
young minnows, just watching a water-spider with desirous awe, at
sight of me broke away, and reunited, with a speed and precision
that might shame the whole of our very best modern fighting.  Then
many other things made a dart away, and furrowed the shadow of the
willows, till distance quieted the fear of man--that most
mysterious thing in nature--and the shallow pool was at peace
again, and bright with unruffled reflections.

"What ails the dog?" said a deep gruff voice; and the poor dog
received a contemptuous push, not enough to hurt him, but to wound
his feelings for doing his primary duty.  "Servant, miss.  What can
I do for you?  Foot-path is t'other side of that there hedge."

"Yes, but I left the foot-path on purpose.  I came to have a talk
with you, if you will allow me."

"Sartain! sartain," the miller replied, lifting a broad floury hat
and showing a large gray head.  "Will you come into house, miss, or
into gearden?"

I chose the garden, and he led the way, and set me down upon an old
oak bench, where the tinkle of the water through the flood-gates
could be heard.

"So you be come to paint the mill at last," he said.  "Many a time
I've looked out for you.  The young leddy down to Mother Busk's, of
course.  Many's the time we've longed for you to come, you reminds
us so of somebody.  Why, my old missus can't set eyes on you in
church, miss, without being forced to sit down a'most.  But we
thought it very pretty of you not to come, miss, while the trouble
was so new upon us."

Something in my look or voice made the old man often turn away,
while I told him that I would make the very best drawing of his
mill that I could manage, and would beg him to accept it.

"Her ought to 'a been on the plank," he said, with trouble in
getting his words out.  "But there! what good?  Her never will
stand on that plank no more.  No, nor any other plank."

I told him that I would put her on the plank, if he had any
portrait of her showing her dress and her attitude.  Without saying
what he had, he led me to the house, and stood behind me, while I
went inside.  And then he could not keep his voice as I went from
one picture of his darling to another, not thinking (as I should
have done) of what his feelings might be, but trying, as no two
were at all alike, to extract a general idea of her.

"Nobody knows what her were to me," the old man said, with a quiet
little noise and a sniff behind my shoulder.  "And with one day's
illness her died--her died."

"But you have others left.  She was not the only one.  Please, Mr.
Withypool, to try to think of that.  And your dear wife still alive
to share your trouble.  Just think for a moment of what happened to
my father.  His wife and six children all swept off in a month--and
I just born, to be brought up with a bottle!"

I never meant, of course, to have said a word of this, but was
carried away by that common old idea of consoling great sorrow with
a greater one.  And the sense of my imprudence broke vexatiously
upon me when the old man came and stood between me and his
daughter's portraits.

"Well, I never!" he exclaimed, with his bright eyes steadfast with
amazement.  "I know you now, miss.  Now I knows you.  To think what
a set of blind newts us must be!  And you the very moral of your
poor father, in a female kind of way!  To be sure, how well I knew
the Captain!  A nicer man never walked the earth, neither a more
unlucky one."

"I beg you--let me beg you," I began to say; "since you have found
me out like this--"

"Hush, miss, hush!  Not my own wife shall know, unless your own
tongue telleth her.  A proud man I shall be, Miss Raumur," he
continued, with emphasis on my local name, "if aught can be found
in my power to serve you.  Why, Lord bless you, miss," he
whispered, looking round, "your father and I has spent hours
together!  He were that pleasant in his ways and words, he would
drop in from his fishing, when the water was too low, and sit on
that very same bench where you sat, and smoke his pipe with me, and
tell me about battles, and ask me about bread.  And many a time I
have slipped up the gate, to give him more water for his flies to
play, and the fish not to see him so plainly.  Ah, we have had many
pleasant spells together; and his eldest boy and girl, Master
George and Miss Henrietta, used to come and fetch our eggs.  My
Polly there was in love with him, we said; she sat upon his lap so,
when she were two years old, and played with his beautiful hair,
and blubbered--oh, she did blubber, when the Captain went away!"

This invested Polly with new interest for me, and made me determine
to spare no pains in putting her pretty figure well upon the plank.
Then I said to the miller, "How kind of you to draw up your sluice-
gates to oblige my father!  Now will you put them down and keep
them down, to do a great service both to him and me?"

Without a moment's hesitation, he promised that any thing he could
do should be done, if I would only tell him what I wanted.  But
perhaps it would be better to have our talk outside.  Taking this
hint, I followed him back to the bench in the open garden, and
there explained what I wished to have done, and no longer concealed
the true reason.  The good miller answered that with all his heart
he would do that much to oblige me, and a hundred times more than
that; but some little thought and care were needful.  With the
river so low as it was now, he could easily stop the back-water,
and receive the whole of the current in his dam, and keep it from
flowing down his wheel trough, and thus dry the lower channel for
perhaps half an hour, which would be ample for my purpose.
Engineering difficulties there were none; but two or three other
things must be heeded.  Miller Sims, a mile or so down river, must
be settled with, to fill his dam well, and begin to discharge, when
the upper water failed, so as not to dry the Moon all down the
valley, which would have caused a commotion.  Miller Sims being own
brother-in-law to Master Withypool, that could be arranged easily
enough, after one day's notice.  But a harder thing to manage would
be to do the business without rousing curiosity, and setting abroad
a rumor which would be sure to reach my enemy.  And the hardest
thing of all, said Master Withypool, smiling as he thought of what
himself had once been, would be to keep those blessed boys away,
who find out every thing, and go every where.  Not a boy of
Shoxford but would be in the river, or dancing upon its empty bed,
screeching and scolloping up into his cap any poor bewildered trout
chased into the puddles, if it were allowed to leak out, however
feebly, that the Moon water was to stop running.  And then how was
I to seek for any thing?

This was a puzzle.  But, with counsel, we did solve it.  And we
quietly stopped the Moon, without man or boy being much the wiser.



CHAPTER XLIII

GOING TO THE BOTTOM


It is not needful to explain every thing, any more than it was for
me to tell the miller about my golden eagle, and how I had managed
to lose it in the Moon--a trick of which now I was heartily
ashamed, in the face of honest kindness.  So I need not tell how
Master Withypool managed to settle with his men, and to keep the
boys unwitting of what was about to come to pass.  Enough that I
got a note from him to tell me that the little river would be run
out, just when all Shoxford was intent upon its dinner, on the
second day after I had seen him.  And he could not say for certain,
but thought it pretty safe, that nobody would come near me, if I
managed to be there at a quarter before one, when the stream would
begin to run dry, and I could watch it.  I sent back a line by the
pretty little girl, a sister of poor Polly, to say how much I
thanked him, and how much I hoped that he himself would meet me
there, if his time allowed.  For he had been too delicate to say a
word of that; but I felt that he had a good right to be there, and,
knowing him now, I was not afraid.

Nearly every thing came about as well as could be wished almost.
Master Withypool took the precaution, early in the morning, to set
his great fierce bull at large, who always stopped the foot-path.
This bull knew well the powers of a valley in conducting sound; and
he loved to stand, as if at the mouth of a funnel, and roar down it
to another bull a mile below him, belonging to his master's
brother-in-law.  And when he did this, there was scarcely a boy,
much less a man or woman, with any desire to assert against him the
public right of thoroughfare.  Throughout that forenoon, then, this
bull bellowed nobly, still finding many very wicked flies about, so
that two mitching boys, who meant to fish for minnows with a pin,
were obliged to run away again.

However, I was in the dark about him, and as much afraid of him as
any body, when he broke into sight of me round a corner, without
any tokens of amity.  I had seen a great many great bulls before,
including Uncle Sam's good black one, who might not have meant any
mischief at all, and atoned for it--if he did--by being washed away
so.

And therefore my courage soon returned, when it became quite clear
that this animal now had been fastened with a rope, and could come
no nearer.  For some little time, then, I waited all alone, as near
that bridge as I could bring myself to stand, for Mrs. Busk, my
landlady, could not leave the house yet, on account of the mid-day
letters.  Moreover, she thought that she had better stay away, as
our object was to do things as quietly as could be.

Much as I had watched this bridge from a distance, or from my
sheltering-place, I had never been able to bring myself to make any
kind of sketch of it, or even to insert it in a landscape, although
it was very well suited and expressive, from its crooked and
antique simplicity.  The overhanging, also, of the hawthorn-tree
(not ruddy yet, but russety with its coloring crop of coral), and
the shaggy freaks of ivy above the twisted trunk, and the curve of
the meadows and bold elbow of the brook, were such as an artist
would have pitched his tent for, and tantalized poor London people
with a dream of cool repose.

As yet the little river showed no signs of doing what the rustic--
or surely it should have been the cockney--was supposed to stand
still and wait for.  There was no great rush of headlong water, for
that is not the manner of the stream in the very worst of weather;
but there was the usual style of coming on, with lips and steps at
the sides, and cords of running toward the middle.  Quite enough,
at any rate, to make the trout jump, without any omen of impending
drought, and to keep all the play and the sway of movement going on
serenely.

I began to be afraid that the miller must have failed in his
stratagem against the water-god, and that, as I had read in Pope's
Homer, the liquid deity would beat the hero, when all of a sudden
there were signs that man was the master of this little rustic.
Broadswords of flag and rapiers of water-grass, which had been
quivering merrily, began to hang down and to dip themselves in
loops, and the stones of the brink showed dark green stripes on
their sides as they stood naked.  Then fine little cakes of
conglomerated stuff, which only a great man of nature could
describe, came floating about, and curdling into corners, and
holding on to one another in long-tailed strings.  But they might
do what they liked, and make their very best of it, as they fell
away to nothing upon stones and mud.  For now more important things
began to open, the like of which never had been yielded up before--
plots of slimy gravel, varied with long streaks of yellow mud,
dotted with large double shells, and parted into little oozy runs
by wriggling water-weeds.  And here was great commotion and sad
panic of the fish, large fellows splashing and quite jumping out of
water, as their favorite hovers and shelves ran dry, and darting
away, with their poor backs in the air, to the deepest hole they
could think of.  Hundreds must have come to flour, lard, and butter
if boys had been there to take advantage.  But luckily things had
been done so well that boys were now in their least injurious
moment, destroying nothing worse than their own dinners.

A very little way below the old wooden bridge the little river ran
into a deepish pool, as generally happens at or near a corner,
especially where there is a confluence sometimes.  And seeing
nothing, as I began to search intently, stirring with a long-
handled spud which I had brought, I concluded that even my golden
eagle had been carried into that deep place.  However, water or no
water, I resolved to have it out with that dark pool as soon as the
rest of the channel should be drained, which took a tormenting time
to do; and having thick boots on, I pinned up my skirts, and
jumping down into the shoals, began to paddle in a fashion which
reminded me of childish days passed pleasantly in the Blue River.

Too busy thus to give a thought to any other thing, I did not even
see the miller, until he said,

"Good-day, miss," lifting his hat, with a nice kind smile.  "Very
busy, miss, I see, and right you are to be so.  The water will be
upon us again in less than half an hour.  Now let me clear away
they black weeds for you.  I brought this little shivel a-purpose.
If I may make so bold, miss, what do 'e look to find here?"

"I have not the very smallest notion," I could only answer; "but if
there is any thing, it must be in that hole.  I have searched all
the shallow part so closely that I doubt whether even a sixpence
could escape me, unless it were buried in the mud or pebbles.  Oh,
how can I manage to search that hole?  There must be a yard of
water there."

"One thing I ought to have told 'e for to do," Master Withypool
whispered, as he went on shoveling--"to do what the boys do when
they lose a farden--to send another after un.  If so be now, afore
the water was run out, you had stood on that there bridge, and
dropped a bright coin into it, a new half crown or a two-shilling
piece, why, the chances would be that the run of the current would
'a taken it nigh to the likeliest spot for holding any other little
matter as might 'a dropped, permiskous, you might say, into this
same water."

"I have done so," I answered; "I have done that very thing, though
not at all with that object.  The day before yesterday a beautiful
coin, a golden eagle of America, fell from my pocket on that upper
plank, and rolled into the water.  I would not lose it for a great
deal, because it was given to me by my dearest friend, the greatest
of all millers."

"And ha'n't you found it yet, miss?  Well, that is queer.  Perhaps
we shall find it now, with something to the back of it.  I thought
yon hole was too far below the bridge.  But there your gold must
be, and something else, most likely.  Plaise to wait a little bit,
and us 'll have the wet out of un.  I never should 'a thought of
that but for your gold guinea, though."

With these words Master Withypool pulled his coat off and rolled up
his shirt sleeves, displaying arms fit to hold their own even with
Uncle Sam's almost; and then he fell to with his shovel and dug,
while I ran with my little spud to help.

"Plaise keep out of way, miss; I be afeard of knocking you.  Not
but what you works very brave indeed, miss."

Knowing what men are concerning "female efforts," I got out of the
strong man's way, although there was plenty of room for me.  What
he wanted to do was plain enough--to dig a trench down the empty
bed of the Moon River, deep enough to drain that pit before the
stream came down again.

"Never thought to run a race against my own old dam," he said, as
he stopped for a moment to recover breath.  "Us never knows what us
may have to do.  Old dam must be a'most busting now.  But her's
sound enough, till her beginneth to run over."

I did not say a word, because it might have done some mischief, but
I could not help looking rather anxiously up stream, for fear of
the water coming down with a rush, as it very soon must do.  Master
Withypool had been working, not as I myself would have done, from
the lips of the dark pit downward, but from a steep run some twenty
yards below, where there was almost a little cascade when the river
was full flowing; from this he had made his channel upward, cutting
deeper as he came along, till now, at the brink of the obstinate
pool, his trench was two feet deep almost.  I had no idea that any
man could work so with a shovel, which seems such a clumsy tool
compared with a spade: but a gentleman who knows the country and
the people told me that, with their native weapon, Moonites will do
as much digging in an hour as other folk get through in an hour and
a half with a spade.  But this may be only, perhaps, because they
are working harder.

"Now," said Master Withypool at last, standing up, with a very red
face, and desiring to keep all that unheeded--"now, miss, to you it
belongeth to tap this here little cornder, if desirable.  Plaise to
excoose of me going up of bank to tell 'e when the wet cometh down
again."

"Please to do nothing of the sort," I answered, knowing that he
offered to stand out of sight from a delicate dread of intrusion.
"Please to tap the pool yourself, and stay here, as a witness of
what we find in it."

"As you plaise, miss, as you plaise.  Not a moment for to lose in
arguing.  Harken now, the water is atopping of our dam.  Her will
be here in five minutes."

With three or four rapid turns of his shovel, which he spun almost
as fast as a house-maid spins a mop, he fetched out the plug of
earth severing his channel from the deep, reluctant hole.  And then
I saw the wisdom of his way of working: for if he had dug downward
from the pool itself, the water would have followed him all the
way, and even drowned his tool out of its own strokes; whereas now,
with a swirl and a curl of ropy mud, away rushed the thick,
sluggish, obstinate fluid, and in less than two minutes the hole
was almost dry.

The first thing I saw was my golden eagle, lodged about half-way
down the slope on a crust of black sludge, from which I caught it
up and presented it to Master Withypool, as a small token and
record of his kindness; and to this day he carries it upon his
Sunday watch chain.

"I always am lucky in finding things," I exclaimed, while he
watched me, and the up stream too, whence a babble of water was
approaching.  "As sure as I live I have found it!"

"No doubt about your living, miss.  And the Captain were always
lively.  But what have your bright eyes hit upon?  I see nort for
the life of me."

"Look there," I cried, "at the very bottom of it--almost under the
water.  Here, where I put my spud--a bright blue line!  Oh, can I
go down, or is it quicksand?"

"No quicksand in our little river, miss.  But your father's
daughter shannot go into the muck, while John Withypool stands by.
I see un now, sure enough; now I see un!  But her needeth care, or
her may all goo away in mullock.  Well, I thought my eyes was sharp
enough; but I'm blest if I should have spied that, though.  A bit
of flint, mebbe, or of blue glass bottle.  Anyhow, us will see the
bottom of un."

He was wasting no time while he spoke, but working steadfastly for
his purpose, fixing the blade of his shovel below the little blue
line I was peering at, so that no slip of the soft yellow slush
should bury it down, and plunge over it.  If that had once
happened, good-by to all chance of ever beholding this thing again,
for the river was coming, with fury and foam, to assert its ancient
right of way.

With a short laugh the miller jumped down into the pit.  "Me to be
served so, by my own mill-stream!  Lor', if I don't pay you out for
this!"

His righteous wrath failed to stop the water from pouring into the
pit behind him; and, strong as he was, he nearly lost his footing,
having only mud to stand upon.  It seemed to me that he was going
to be drowned, and I offered him the handle of my spud to help him;
but he stopped where he was, and was not going to be hurried.

"I got un now," he said; "now I don't mind coming out.  You see if
I don't pay you out for this!  Why, I always took you for a
reasonable hanimal."

He shook his fist strongly at the river, which had him well up to
the middle by this time; and then he disdainfully waded out, with
wrath in all his countenance.

"I've a great mind to stop there, and see what her would do," he
said to me, forgetting altogether what he went for.  "And I would,
if I had had my dinner.  A scat of a thing as I can manage with my
thumb!  Ah, you have made a bad day of it."

"But what have you found, Mr. Withypool?" I asked, for I could not
enter into his wrath against the water, wet as he was to the
shoulders.  "You have something in your hand.  May I see it, if you
please?  And then do please to go home and change your clothes."

"A thing I never did in my life, miss, and should be ashamed to
begin at this age.  Clothes gets wet, and clothes dries on us, same
as un did on the sheep afore us; else they gets stiff and creasy.
What this little thing is ne'er a body may tell, in my line of
life--but look'th aristocratic."

The "mullock," as he called it, from his hands, and from the bed
where it had lain so long, so crusted the little thing which he
gave me, that I dipped it again in the swelling stream, and rubbed
it with both hands, to make out what it was.  And then I thought
how long it had lain there; and suddenly to my memory it came, that
in all likelihood the time of that was nineteen years this very
day.

"Will another year pass," I cried, "before I make out all about it?
What are you, and who, now looking at me with such sad, sad eyes?"

For I held in my hand a most handsome locket, of blue enamel and
diamonds, with a back of chased gold, and in front the miniature of
a beautiful young woman, done as they never seem to do them now.
The work was so good, and the fitting so close, that no drop of
water had entered, and the face shone through the crystal glass as
fresh as the day it was painted.  A very lovely face it was, yet
touched with a shade of sadness, as the loveliest faces generally
are; and the first thought of any beholder would be, "That woman
was born for sorrow."

The miller said as much when I showed it to him.

"Lord bless my heart!  I hope the poor craitur' hathn't lasted half
so long as her pictur' hath."



CHAPTER XLIV

HERMETICALLY SEALED


The discovery which I have described above (but not half so well as
the miller tells it now) created in my young heart a feeling of
really strong curiosity.  To begin with, how could this valuable
thing have got into the Moon-stream, and lain there so long,
unsought for, or at best so unskillfully sought for?  What
connection could it have with the tragic death of my grandfather?
Why was that man so tardily come to search for it, if he might do
so without any body near him?  Again, what woman was this whose
beauty no water or mud could even manage to disguise?  That last
was a most disturbing question to one's bodily peace of mind.  And
then came another yet more urgent--what was in the inside of this
tight case?

That there was something inside of it seemed almost a certainty.
The mere value of the trinket, or even the fear that it ever might
turn up as evidence, would scarcely have brought that man so often
to stir suspicion by seeking it; though, after so long a time, he
well might hope that suspicion was dead and buried.  And being
unable to open this case--after breaking three good nails over it,
and then the point of a penknife--I turned to Master Withypool, who
was stamping on the grass to drain himself.

"What sort of a man was that," I asked, "who wanted you to do what
now you have so kindly done for me?  About a month or six weeks
ago?  Do please to tell me, as nearly as you can."

If Mrs. Withypool had been there, she might have lost all patience
with me for putting long questions so selfishly to a man who had
done so much for me, and whose clothes were now dripping in a wind
which had arisen to test his theory of drying.  He must have lost a
large quantity of what scientific people call "caloric."  But never
a shiver gave he in exchange.

"Well, miss," he said, "I was thinking a'most of speaking on that
very matter.  More particular since you found that little thing,
with the pretty lady inside of it.  It were borne in on my mind
that thissom were the very thing he were arter."

"No doubt of it," I answered, with far less patience, though being
comparatively dry.  "But what was he like?  Was he like this
portrait?"

"This picture of the lady?  No; I can't say that he were, so much.
The face of a big man he hath, with short black fringes to it.
Never showeth to my idea any likeliness of a woman.  No, no, miss;
think you not at all that you have got him in that blue thing.
Though some of their pictures is like men, the way they dress up
nowadays."

"I did not mean that it was meant for him; what I mean is, do you
see any sign of family likeness?  Any resemblance about the eyes,
or mouth, or forehead?"

"Well, now, I don't know but what I might," replied Master
Withypool, gazing very hard; "if I was to look at 'un long enough,
a' might find some'at favoring of that tall fellow, I do believe.
Indeed, I do believe the more I look, the more I diskivers the
image of him."

The good and kind miller's perception of the likeness strengthened
almost too fast, as if the wish were father to the thought, until I
saw clearly how selfish I was in keeping him in that state so long;
for I knew, from what Mrs. Busk had told me, that in spite of all
his large and grand old English sentiments about his clothes, his
wife would make him change them all ere ever she gave him a bit of
dinner, and would force him then to take a glass of something hot.
So I gave him a thousand thanks, though not a thousandth part of
what he deserved, and saw him well on his homeward way before I
went back to consider things.

As soon as my landlady was at leisure to come in and talk with me,
and as soon as I had told her how things happened, and shown her
our discovery, we both of us did the very same thing, and said
almost the very same words.  Our act was, with finger and nail and
eye, to rime into every jot of it; and our words were,

"I am sure there is something inside.  If not, it would open
sensibly."

In the most senseless and obstinate manner it refused not only to
open, but to disclose any thing at all about itself.  Whether it
ever had been meant to open, and if so, where, and by what means;
whether, without any gift of opening, it might have a hidden thing
inside; whether, when opened by force or skill, it might show
something we had no business with, or (which would be far worse)
nothing at all--good Mrs. Busk and myself tested, tapped, and felt,
and blew, and listened, and tried every possible overture, and
became at last quite put out with it.

"It is all of a piece with the villains that owned it," the
postmistress exclaimed at last.  "There is no penetrating either it
or them.  Most likely they have made away with this beautiful lady
on the cover.  Kill one, kill fifty, I have heard say.  I hope
Master Withypool will let out nothing, or evil it will be for you,
miss.  If I was you, I would carry a pistol."

"Now please not to frighten me, Mrs. Busk.  I am not very brave at
the best of times, and this has made me so nervous.  If I carried a
pistol, I should shoot myself the very first hour of wearing it.
The mere thought of it makes me tremble.  Oh, why was I ever born,
to do man's work?"

"Because, miss, a man would not have done it half so well.  When
you saw that villain digging, a man would have rushed out and
spoiled all chance.  And now what man could have ever found this?
Would Master Withypool ever have emptied the Moon River for a man,
do you think?  Or could any man have been down among us all this
time, in this jealous place, without his business being long ago
sifted out and scattered over him?  No, no, miss; you must not talk
like that--and with me as well to help you.  The rogues will have
reason to wish, I do believe, that they had only got a man to deal
with."

In this argument there were points which had occurred to me before;
but certainly it is a comfort to have one's own ideas in a doubtful
matter reproduced, and perhaps put better, by a mind to which one
may have lent them, perhaps, with a loan all unacknowledged.
However, trouble teaches care, and does it so well that the master
and the lesson in usage of words are now the same; therefore I
showed no sign of being suggested with my own suggestions, but only
asked, quietly, "What am I to do?"

"My dear young lady," Mrs. Busk replied, after stopping some time
to think of it, "my own opinion is, for my part, that you ought to
consult somebody."

"But I am, Mrs. Busk.  I am now consulting you."

"Then I think, miss, that this precious case should be taken at
once to a jeweler, who can open it without doing any damage, which
is more than we can do."

"To be sure; I have thought of that," I replied.  "But how can that
be done without arousing curiosity?--without the jeweler seeing its
contents, if indeed it has any?  And in that case the matter would
be no longer at our own disposal, as now it is.  I have a great
mind to split it with a hammer.  What are the diamonds to me?"

"It is not the diamonds, but the picture, miss, that may be most
important.  And more than that, you might ruin the contents, so as
not to make head or tale of them.  No, no; it is a risk that must
be run; we must have a jeweler, but not one of this neighborhood."

"Then I shall have to go to London again, and perhaps lose
something most important here.  Can you think of no other way out
of it?"

"No, miss, at present I see nothing else.  Unless you will place it
all in the hands of the police."

"Constable Jobbins, to wit, or his son!  No, thank you, Mrs. Busk,
not yet.  Surely we are not quite reduced to such a hopeless pass
as that.  My father knew what the police were worth, and so does
Betsy, and so does Major Hockin.  'Pompous noodles,' the Major
calls them, who lay hold of every thing by the wrong end."

"Then if he can lay hold of the right end, miss, what better could
you do than consult him?"

I had been thinking of this already, and pride alone debarred me.
That gentleman's active nature drove him to interfere with other
people's business, even though he had never heard of them; and yet
through some strange reasoning of his own, or blind adoption of
public unreason, he had made me dislike, or at any rate not like,
him, until he began to show signs at last of changing his opinion.
And now the question was, had he done that enough for me, without
loss of self-respect, to open my heart to him, and seek counsel?

In settling that point the necessity of the case overrode, perhaps,
some scruples; in sooth, I had nobody else to go to.  What could I
do with Lord Castlewood?  Nothing; all his desire was to do exactly
what my father would have done: and my father had never done any
thing more than rove and roam his life out.  To my mind this was
dreadful now, when every new thing rising round me more and more
clearly to my mind established what I never had doubted--his
innocence.  Again, what good could I do by seeking Betsy's opinion
about it, or that of Mrs. Price, or Stixon, or any other person
I could think of?  None whatever--and perhaps much harm.  Taking
all in all, as things turn up, I believed myself to be almost equal
to the cleverest of those three in sense, and in courage not
inferior.  Moreover, a sort of pride--perhaps very small, but not
contemptible--put me against throwing my affairs so much into the
hands of servants.

For this idea Uncle Sam, no doubt the most liberal of men, would
perhaps condemn me.  But still I was not of the grand New World,
whose pedigrees are arithmetic (at least with many of its items,
though the true Uncle Sam was the last for that); neither could I
come up to the largeness of universal brotherhood.  That was not to
be expected of a female; and few things make a man more angry than
for his wife to aspire to it.  No such ideas had ever troubled me;
I had more important things to think of, or, at any rate, something
to be better carried out.  And of all these desultory thoughts it
came that I packed up that odious but very lovely locket, without
further attempt to unriddle it, and persuaded my very good and
clever Mrs. Busk to let me start right early.  By so doing I could
have three hours with a good gentleman always in a hurry, and yet
return for the night to Shoxford, if he should advise me so.

Men and women seem alike to love to have their counsels taken; and
the equinox being now gone by, Mrs. Busk was ready to begin before
the tardy sun was up, who begins to give you short measure at once
when he finds the weights go against him.  Mrs. Busk considered not
the sun, neither any of his doings.  The time of day was more
momentous than any of the sun's proceedings.  Railway time was what
she had to keep (unless a good customer dropped in), and as for the
sun--"clock slow, clock fast," in the almanacs, showed how he
managed things; and if that was not enough, who could trust him to
keep time after what he had done upon the dial of Ahaz?  Reasoning
thus--if reason it was--she packed me off in a fly for the nearest
railway station, and by midday I found the Major laboring on his
ramparts.

After proper salutations, I could not help expressing wonder at the
rapid rise of things.  Houses here and houses there, springing up
like children's teeth, three or four in a row together, and then a
long gap, and then some more.  And down the slope a grand hotel,
open for refreshment, though as yet it had no roof on; for the
Major, in virtue of his charter, defied all the magistrates to stop
him from selling whatever was salable on or off the premises.  But
noblest and grandest of all to look at was the "Bruntsea Athenaeum,
Lyceum, Assembly-Rooms, Institution for Mutual Instruction,
Christian Young Men's Congress, and Sanitary, Saline, Hydropathic
Hall, at nominal prices to be had gratis."

"How you do surprise me!" I said to Major Hockin, after reading all
that, which he kindly requested me to do with care; "but where are
the people to come from?"

"Erema," he replied, as if that question had been asked too often,
"you have not had time to study the laws of political economy--the
noblest of noble sciences.  The first of incontrovertible facts is
that supply creates demand.  Now ask yourself whether there could
even be a Yankee if ideas like yours had occurred to Columbus?"

This was beyond me; for I never could argue, and strove to the
utmost not to do so.  "You understand those things, and I do not,"
said I, with a smile, which pleased him.  "My dear aunt Mary always
says that you are the cleverest man in the world; and she must know
most about it."

"Partiality! partiality!" cried the Major, with a laugh, and
pulling his front hair up.  "Such things pass by me like the idle
wind; or rather, perhaps, they sadden me, from my sense of my own
deficiencies.  But, bless me! dinner must be waiting.  Look at that
fellow's trowel--he knows: he turns up the point of it like a
spoon.  They say that he can smell his dinner two miles off.  We
all dine at one o'clock now, that I may rout up every man-Jack of
them."

The Major sounded a steam-guard's whistle, and led me off in the
rapidly vanishing wake of his hungry workmen.



CHAPTER XLV

CONVICTION


Sir Montague Hockin, to my great delight, was still away from
Bruntsea.  If he had been there, it would have been a most awkward
thing for me to meet him, or to refuse to do so.  The latter course
would probably have been the one forced upon me by self-respect and
affection toward my cousin; and yet if so, I could scarcely have
avoided an explanation with my host.  From the nature of the
subject, and several other reasons, this would have been most
unpleasant; and even now I was haunted with doubts, as I had been
from the first, whether I ought not to have told Mrs. Hockin long
ago what had been said of him.  At first sight that seemed the
honest thing to do; but three things made against it.  It might
seem forward and meddlesome; it must be a grievous thing to my
cousin to have his sad story discussed again; and lastly, I had
promised Mrs. Price that her words should go no further.  So that
on the whole perhaps I acted aright in keeping that infamous tale
to myself as long as ever it was possible.

But now ere ever I spoke of him--which I was always loath to do--
Mrs. Hockin told me that he very seldom came to see them now, and
when he did come he seemed to be uneasy and rather strange in his
manners.  I thought to myself that the cause of this was clear.
Sir Montague, knowing that I went to Castlewood, was pricked in his
conscience, and afraid of having his vile behavior to my cousin
disclosed.  However, that idea of mine was wrong, and a faulty
conception of simple youth.  The wicked forgive themselves so
quickly, if even they find any need of it, that every body else is
supposed to do the same.  With this I have no patience.  A wrong
unrepented of and unatoned gathers interest, instead of getting
discount, from lost time.  And so I hated that man tenfold.

Good Mrs. Hockin lamented his absence not only for the sake of her
darling fowls, but also because she considered him a check upon the
Major's enterprise.  Great as her faith was in her husband's
ability and keenness, she was often visited with dark misgivings
about such heavy outlay.  Of economy (as she often said) she
certainly ought to know something, having had to practice it as
strictly as any body in the kingdom, from an age she could hardly
remember.  But as for what was now brought forward as a great
discovery--economy in politics--Mrs. Hockin had tried to follow
great opinions, but could only find, so far, downright extravagance.
Supply (as she had observed fifty times with her own butcher and
fishmonger), instead of creating demand, produced a lot of people
hankering round the corner, till the price came down to nothing.
And if it were so with their institutions--as her dear husband
called his new public-house--who was to find all the interest due
to the building and land societies?  Truly she felt that Sir Rufus
Hockin, instead of doing any good to them, had behaved very badly
in leaving them land, and not even a shilling to work it with.

It relieved her much to tell me this, once for all and in strict
confidence; because her fine old-fashioned (and we now may say
quite obsolete) idea of duty toward her husband forbade her ever to
say to him, or about him, when it could be helped, any thing he
might not like, any thing which to an evil mind might convey a
desire on her part to meddle with--with--

"Political economy," I said; and she laughed, and said, Yes, that
was just it.  The Major of course knew best, and she ought with all
her heart to trust him not to burden their old days with debt,
after all the children they had brought up and fairly educated upon
the professional income of a distinguished British officer, who is
not intended by his superiors to provide successors.

"Perhaps it is like the boiled eggs they send me," the old lady
said, with her soft sweet smile, "for my poor hens to sit upon.
Their race is too good to be made common.  So now they get tinkers'
and tailors' boys, after much competition, and the crammed sons of
cooks.  And in peace-time they do just as well."

Of such things I knew nothing; but she seemed to speak with
bitterness, the last thing to be found in all her nature, yet
discoverable--as all bad things (except its own) are--by the
British government.  I do not speak from my own case, in which they
discovered nothing.

By the time these things had been discussed, my host (who was
always particular about his dress) came down to dinner, and not
until that was over could I speak of the subject which had brought
me there.  No sooner had I begun my tale than they both perceived
that it must neither be flurried nor interrupted, least of all
should it be overheard.

"Come into my lock-up," cried the Major; "or, better still, let us
go out of doors.  We can sit in my snuggery on the cliff, with only
gulls and jackdaws to listen, and mount my telescope and hoist my
flag, and the men know better than to skulk their work.  I can see
every son of a gun of them as clearly as if I had them on parade.
You wish Mrs. Hockin to come, I suppose.  Very well, let us be off
at once.  I shall count my fellows coming back from dinner."

With a short quick step the Major led the way to a beautifully
situated outpost at a corner of the cliff, where land and sea for
many a fair league rolled below.  A niche of the chalk had been
cleverly enlarged and scooped into a shell-shaped bower, not,
indeed, gloriously overhung, as in the far West might have been,
but broken of its white defiant glare by climbing and wandering
verdure.  Seats and slabs of oak were fixed to check excess of
chalkiness, and a parapet of a pattern which the Major called
Egyptian saved fear of falling down the cliff, and served to spread
a paper on, or to rest a telescope.

"From this point," said the Major, crossing wiry yet substantial
legs, "the whole of my little domain may be comprised as in a
bird's-eye view.  It is nothing, of course, much less than nothing,
compared with the Earl of Crowcombe's, or the estate of Viscount
Gamberley; still, such as it is, it carries my ideas, and it has an
extent of marine frontage such as they might envy.  We are asked 5
pounds per foot for a thread of land fronting on a highway, open to
every kind of annoyance, overlooked, without any thing to look at.
How much, then, per fathom (or measure, if you please, by cable-
lengths) is land worth fronting the noble, silent, uncontaminating,
healthful sea?  Whence can come no coster-mongers' cries, no
agitating skir of bagpipes or the maddening hurdy-gurdy, no German
band expecting half a crown for the creation of insanity; only
sweet murmur of the wavelets, and the melodious whistle of a
boatman catching your breakfast lobster.  Where, again, if you love
the picturesque--"

"My dear," said Mrs. Hockin, gently, "you always were eloquent from
the first day I saw you; and if you reconstitute our borough, as
you hope, and enter Parliament for Bruntsea, what a sensation you
will create!  But I wished to draw your attention to the fact that
Erema is waiting to tell her tale."

"To be sure.  I will not stop her.  Eloquence is waste of time, and
I never yet had half a second to spare.  Fear no eloquence from me;
facts and logic are my strong points.  And now, Erema, show what
yours are."

At first this made me a little timid, for I had never thought that
any strong points would be needed for telling a simple tale.  To my
mind the difficulty was, not to tell the story, but to know what to
make of it when told; and soon I forgot all about myself in telling
what I had seen, heard, and found.

The Major could not keep himself from stamping great holes through
his--something I forget the name of, but people sow it to make turf
of chalk--and dear "Aunt Mary's" soft pink cheeks, which her last
grandchild might envy, deepened to a tone of rose; while her eyes,
so full of heavenly faith when she got upon lofty subjects, took a
most human flash and sparkle of hatred not theological.

"Seven!" she cried; "oh, Nicholas, Nicholas, you never told me
there were seven!"

"There were not seven graves without the mother," the Major
answered, sternly.  "And what odds whether seven or seventy?  The
criminality is the point, not the accumulation of results.  Still,
I never heard of so big a blackguard.  And what did he do next, my
dear?"

The way in which they took my story was a great surprise to me,
because, although they were so good, they had never paid any
attention to it until it became exciting.  They listened with mere
politeness until the scent of a very wicked man began to taint my
narrative; but from that moment they drew nearer, and tightened
their lips, and held their breath, and let no word escape them.  It
made me almost think that people even of pure excellence, weaned as
they are from wicked things by teaching and long practice, must
still retain a hankering for them done at other people's cost.

"And now," cried the Major, "let us see it"--even before I had time
to pull it out, though ready to be quick, from a knowledge of his
ways.  "Show it, and you shall have my opinion.  And Mary's is
certain to agree with mine.  My dear, that makes yours so
priceless."

"Then, Nicholas, if I retain my own, yours is of no value.  Never
mind that.  Now don't catch words, or neither opinion will be worth
a thought.  My dear, let us see it and then judge."

"My own idea, but not so well expressed," Major Hockin answered, as
he danced about, while I with stupid haste was tugging at my
package of the hateful locket.  For I had not allowed that
deceitful thing any quarters in my pocket, where dear little relics
of my father lay, but had fastened it under my dress in a manner
intended in no way for gentlemen to think about.  Such little
things annoy one's comfort, and destroy one's power of being quite
high-minded.  However, I got it out at last, and a flash of the sun
made the difference.

"Brilliants, Mary!" the Major cried; "brilliants of first water;
such as we saw, you know where; and any officer in the British army
except myself, I do believe, would have had them at once in his
camlet pouch--my dear, you know all about it.  Bless my heart, how
slow you are!  Is it possible you have forgotten it?  There came
out a fellow, and I cut him down, as my duty was, without ceremony.
You know how I used to do it, out of regulation, with a slash like
this--"

"Oh, Nicholas, you will be over the cliff!  You have shown me how
you used to do it, a thousand times--but you had no cricks in your
back then: and remember how brittle the chalk is."

"The chalk may be brittle, but I am tough.  I insist upon doing
every thing as well as I did it forty years ago.  Mary, you ought
not to speak to me like that.  Eighteen, nineteen, twenty
brilliants, worth twenty pounds apiece upon an average, I do
believe.  Four hundred pounds.  That would finish our hotel."

"Nicholas!"

"My dear, I was only in fun.  Erema understands me.  But who is
this beautiful lady?"

"The very point," I exclaimed, while he held it so that the pensive
beauty of the face gleamed in soft relief among bright blue enamel
and sparkling gems.  "The very thing that I must know--that I would
give my life to know--that I have fifty thousand fancies--"

"Now don't be excited, Erema, if you please.  What will you give me
to tell you who it is?"

"All those diamonds, which I hate the sight of, and three-quarters
of my half nugget; and if that is not enough--"

"It is a thousand times too much; I will tell you for just one
smile, and I know it, will be a smile of unbelief."

"No, no; I will believe it, whoever you say," with excitement
superior to grammar, I cried; "only tell me at once--don't be so
long."

"But then you won't believe me when I do tell you," the Major
replied, in the most provoking way.  "I shall tell you the last
person you would ever think of, and then you will only laugh at
me."

"I won't laugh; how can I laugh in such a matter?  I will believe
you if you say it is--Aunt Mary."

"My dear, you had better say at once that it is I, and have no more
mystery about it."  Mrs. Hockin was almost as impatient as myself.

"Mrs. Hockin, you must indeed entertain an exalted idea of your own
charms.  I knew that you were vain, but certainly did not--Well,
then, if you will allow me no peace, this is the lady that lives
down in the ruin, and stands like a pillar by my pillar-box."

"I never thought you would joke like that," I cried, with vexation
and anger.  "Oh, is it a subject to be joked about?"

"I never was graver in my life; and you promised implicitly to
believe me.  At any rate, believe that I speak in earnest."

"That I must believe, when you tell me so.  But what makes you
think such a wonderful thing?  I should have thought nothing more
impossible.  I had made up my mind that it was Flittamore who lived
down here; but this can not be she.  Flittamore was unheard of at
the time of my grandfather's death.  Moreover, her character was
not like this; she was giddy and light and heartless.  This lady
had a heart--good or bad, a deep one.  Most certainly it is not
Flittamore."

"Flittamore!  I do not remember that name.  You should either tell
us all or tell us nothing."  The Major's tone was reproachful, and
his eyes from their angular roofs looked fierce.

"I have not told you," I said, "because it can have nothing to do
with it.  The subject is a painful one, and belongs to my family
only."

"Enough.  I am not inquisitive--on the other hand, too forgetful.
I have an appointment at 3.25.  It takes me seven minutes and a
quarter to get there.  I must be two minutes and three-quarters
late.  Mrs. Hockin, mount the big telescope and point it at the
ramparts; keep the flag up also.  Those fellows will be certain
that I am up here, while I enfilade them from the western end with
this fine binocular.  Surprises maintain discipline.  Good-by, my
dear, and, Miss Castlewood, good-by.  Tea at 6.30, and not too much
water."



CHAPTER XLVI

VAIN ZEAL


Leaving his telescope leveled at the men, the Major marched off
with his opera-glass in a consciously provoking style, and Mrs.
Hockin most heartily joined me in condemning such behavior.  In a
minute or two, however, she would not have one word said against
him, and the tide of her mind (as befits a married woman) was
beyond all science; so that the drift of all words came back to her
husband's extraordinary merits.  And certainly these, if at all
like her description, deserved to be dwelt upon at very precious
periods.

However, I had heard enough of them before; for the Major himself
was not mute upon this point, though comparatively modest, and
oftentimes deprecating praise ere ever he received it.  And so I
brought Mrs. Hockin back at last to talk about the lady who was
living in the ruin.

"It is not quite a ruin," she said.  "My dear husband is fond of
picturesque expressions.  However, it is not in very good repair;
and being unable to get possession of it, through some legal
quibble, possibly he may look at it from a rather unfavorable point
of view.  And for the same reason--though he is so purely just--he
may have formed a bad opinion of the strange individual who lives
there.  What right has she to be living without his leave upon his
own manor?  But there she is, and she does not care for us or any
body.  She fetches all she wants, she speaks to none, and if any
body calls for rates or taxes, or any other public intrusion, they
may knock and knock, but never get in, and at last they go away
again."

"But surely that can not go on forever.  Bruntsea is such an
enlightened place."

"Our part of it is, but the rest quite benighted.  As the man says--
I forget his name, but the man that misunderstands us so--his
contention is that 'Desolate Hole,' as the Major calls it, although
in the middle of our land, is entirely distinct from it.  My
husband never will put up with that--his love of justice is far too
strong--and he means to have a lawsuit.  But still he has reasons
for not beginning yet; and he puts up with a great deal, I am sure.
It is too bad for them to tease him so."

"It does seem a very sad thing," I replied; "and the poor soul
living there all alone!  Even in the summer it is bad enough; but
whatever will she do when the winter comes?  Why, the sea in bad
weather must be almost in upon her.  And the roar of the pebbles
all night!  Major Hockin will never allow her to stay there."

"What can he do, when he can not get in, and they even deny his
title?  I assure you, Erema, I have sent down cream, and even a
dozen of my precious eggs, with the lady of the manor's
compliments; but instead of being grateful, they were never taken
in; and my Polly--'Miss Polly Hopkins,' you know--very wisely took
it all to her grandmother."

"To her grandmother instead of mine, as the Major facetiously calls
her.  And now he says this is her portrait; and instead of giving
his reasons, runs away!  Really you must excuse me, Aunt Mary, for
thinking that your good husband has a little too much upon his mind
sometimes."

The old lady laughed, as I loved to see her do.  "Well, my dear,
after that, I think you had better have it out with him.  He comes
home to tea at 6.30, which used to be half past six in my days.  He
is very tired then, though he never will allow it, and it would not
be fair to attack him.  I give him a mutton-chop, or two poached
eggs, or some other trifle of nourishment.  And then I make him
doze for an hour and a half, to soothe his agitated intellect.  And
when he wakes he has just one glass of hot water and sugar, with a
little Lochnagar.  And then he is equal to any thing--backgammon,
bezique, or even conversation."

Impatient as I was, I saw nothing better; and by this time I was
becoming used to what all of us must put up with--the long
postponement of our heavy cares to the light convenience of others.
Major Hockin might just as well have stopped, when he saw how
anxious I was.  Uncle Sam would have stopped the mill itself, with
a dozen customers waiting; but no doubt he had spoiled me; and even
that should not make me bitter.  Aunt Mary and I understood one
another.  We gazed away over the breadth of the sea and the gleam
of its texture, and we held our peace.

Few things are more surprising than the calm way in which ripe age
looks on at things which ought to amaze it.  And yet any little one
of its own concerns grows more important, perhaps, than ever as the
shadow of the future dwindles.  Major Hockin had found on the beach
a pebble with a streak of agate in it.  He took it as the harbinger
of countless agates, and resolved to set up a lapidary, with a
tent, or even a shop, perhaps--not to pay, but to be advertised,
and catch distinguished visitors.

"Erema, you are a mighty finder; you found the biggest nugget yet
discovered.  You know about stones from the Rocky Mountains, or at
least the Sierra Nevada.  You did not discover this beautiful
agate, but you saw and greatly admired it.  We might say that a
'young lady, eminent for great skill in lithology, famed as the
discoverer,' etc.  Hold it between your eyes and this candle, but
wet it in the slop-basin first; now you see the magnificent veins
of blue."

"I see nothing of the kind," I said; for really it was too bad of
him.  "It seems to me a dirty bit of the commonest flint you could
pick up."

This vexed him more than I wished to have done, and I could not
help being sorry; for he went into a little fit of sulks, and Aunt
Mary almost frowned at me.  But he could not stay long in that
condition, and after his doze and his glass he came forth as lively
and meddlesome as ever.  And the first thing he did was to ask me
for the locket.

"Open it?" he cried; "why, of course I can; there is never any
difficulty about that.  The finest workmanship in the world is that
of the Indian jewelers.  I have been among them often; I know all
their devices and mechanism, of which the European are bad copies.
I have only to look round this thing twice, and then pronounce my
Sesame."

"My dear, then look round it as fast as you can," said his wife,
with a traitorous smile at me, "and we won't breathe a Sess till it
flies asunder."

"Mary, Miss Castlewood makes you pert, although herself so well
conducted.  However, I do not hesitate to say that I will open this
case in two minutes."

"Of course you will, dear," Mrs. Hockin replied, with provoking
acquiescence.  "The Major never fails, Erema, in any thing he is so
sure about; and this is a mere child's toy to him.  Well, dear,
have you done it?  But I need not ask.  Oh, let us see what is
inside of it!"

"I have not done it yet, Mrs. Hockin; and if you talk with such
rapidity, of course you throw me out.  How can I command my
thoughts, or even recall my experience?"

"Hush! now hush, Erema!  And I myself will hush most reverently."

"You have no reverence in you, and no patience.  Do you expect me
to do such a job in one second?  Do you take me for a common
jeweler?  I beg you to remember--"

"Well, my dear, I remember only what you told us.  You were to turn
it round twice, you know, and then cry Sesame.  Erema, was it not
so?"

"I never said any thing of the sort.  What I said was simply this--
However, to reason with ladies is rude; I shall just be off to my
study."

"Where you keep your tools, my darling," Mrs. Hockin said, softly,
after him: "at least, I mean, when you know where they are."

I was astonished at Aunt Mary's power of being so highly provoking,
and still more at her having the heart to employ it.  But she knew
best what her husband was; and to worship forever is not wise.

"Go and knock at his door in about five minutes," Mrs. Hockin said
to me, with some mischief in her eyes.  "If he continues to fail,
he may possibly take a shorter way with it.  And with his tools so
close at hand--"

"Oh," I exclaimed, "his geological hammer--that dreadful crusher!
May I go at once?  I detest that thing, but I can not have it
smashed."

"He will not break it up, my dear, without your leave.  He never
would think of such a thing, of course.  However, you may as well
go after him."

It was wrong of Mrs. Hockin to make me do this; and I felt quite
ashamed of myself when I saw the kind old Major sitting by his
lamp, and wrinkling his forehead into locks and keys of puzzle, but
using violence to his own mind alone.  And I was the more ashamed
when, instead of resenting my intrusion, he came to meet me, and
led me to his chair, and placed the jeweled trinket in my hand, and
said, "My dear, I give it up.  I was wrong in taking it away from
you.  You must consult some one wiser."

"That odious thing!" I answered, being touched by this unusual
humility of his; "you shall not give it up; and I know no wiser
person.  A lapidary's tricks are below your knowledge.  But if you
are not tired of me and offended, may I leave it to you to get it
opened?"

"I would like nothing better," he replied, recovering his natural
briskness and importance; "but you ought to be there, my dear; you
must be there.  Are you sure that you ought not rather to take it
to your good cousin Lord Castlewood?  Now think before you answer."

"I need not think twice of that, Major Hockin.  Good and learned as
my father's cousin is, he has distinctly refused to help me, for
some mysterious reason of his own, in searching into this question.
Indeed, my great hope is to do it without him: for all that I know,
he might even wish to thwart me."

"Enough, my dear; it shall be just as you wish.  I brought you to
England, and I will stand by you.  My cousin, Colonel Gundry, has
committed you to me.  I have no patience with malefactors.  I never
took this matter up, for very many reasons; and among them not the
least was that Sampson, your beloved 'Uncle Sam,' thought it better
not to do so.  But if you desire it, and now that I feel certain
that an infamous wrong has been done to you--which I heartily beg
your pardon for my doubt of--by the Lord of all justice, every
thing else may go to the devil, till I see it out.  Do you desire
it, Erema?"

"I certainly do not wish that any of your great works should be
neglected.  But if, without that, you can give me your strong help,
my only difficulty will be to thank you."

"I like plain speaking, and you always speak plainly; sometimes too
plainly," he said, recollecting little times when he had the worst
of it.  "How far do you trust me now?"

"Major Hockin, I trust you altogether.  You may make mistakes, as
all men do--"

"Yes, yes, yes.  About my own affairs; but I never do that for
other people.  I pay a bill for twopence, if it is my own.  If I am
trustee of it, I pay three half-pence."

His meaning was a little beyond me now; but it seemed better not to
tell him so; for he loved to explain his own figures of speech,
even when he had no time to spare for it.  And he clearly expected
me to ask him to begin; or at least it seemed so from his eyebrows.
But that only came home to me afterward.

"Please not to speak of my affairs like that," I said, as if I were
quite stupid; "I mean to pay fourpence for every twopence--both to
friends and enemies."

"You are a queer girl; I have always said so.  You turn things to
your own ideas so.  However, we must put up with that, though none
of my daughters have ever done it; for which I am truly thankful.
But now there is very little time to lose.  The meaning of this
thing must be cleared up at once.  And there is another thing to be
done as well, quite as important, in my opinion.  I will go to
London with you to-morrow, if you like.  My clever little
Cornishman will see to things here--the man that sets up all the
angles."

"But why should I hurry you to London so?" I asked.  "Surely any
good country jeweler could manage it?  Or let us break it open."

"On no account," he answered; "we might spoil it all; besides the
great risk to the diamonds, which are very brittle things.  To
London we must take it, for this reason--the closure of this case
is no jeweler's work; of that I have quite convinced myself.  It is
the work of a first-rate lapidary, and the same sort of man must
undo it."

To this I agreed quite readily, because of such things I knew
nothing; whereas my host spoke just as if he had been brought up to
both those walks of art.  And then I put a question which had long
been burning on my tongue.

"What made you imagine, Major Hockin, that this very beautiful face
could have ever been that of the old lady living in the ruin?"

"In Desolate Hole?  I will tell you at once; and then call it, if
you like, an imagination.  Of all the features of the human face
there is none more distinctive than the eyebrow.  'Distinctive' is
not exactly what I mean--I mean more permanently marked and clear.
The eyes change, the nose changes, so does the mouth, and even the
shape of the forehead sometimes; but the eyebrows change very
little, except in color.  This I have noticed, because my own may
perhaps be a little peculiar; and they have always been so.  At
school I received a nickname about it, for boys are much sharper
than men about such things; and that name after fifty years fits as
well as ever.  You may smile, if you like; I shall not tell you
what it was, but leave you to re-invent it, if you can.  Now look
at this first-rate miniature.  Do you see an unusual but not
uncomely formation of the eyebrows?"

"Certainly I do; though I did not observe it until you drew my
attention.  I had only regarded the face, as a whole."

"The face, as a whole, is undoubtedly fine.  But the eyebrows have
a peculiar arch, and the least little turn at the lower end, as if
they designed to rise again.  The lady of Desolate Hole has the
same."

"But how can you tell?  How very strange!  I thought she let nobody
see her face."

"You are perfectly right about that, Erema; so far at least as she
has vouchsafed to exhibit her countenance to me.  Other people may
be more fortunate.  But when I met her for the second time, being
curious already about her, I ventured to offer my services, with my
inborn chivalry, at a place where the tide was running up, and
threatened to surround her.  My politeness was not appreciated, as
too often is the case; for she made me a very stiff bow, and turned
away.  Her face had been covered by the muffler of her cloak, as if
the sea-breeze were too much for her; and she did not even raise
her eyes.  But before she turned away, I obtained a good glance at
her eyebrows--and they were formed like these."

"But her age, Major Hockin!  Her age--what is it?"

"Upon that proverbially delicate point I can tell you but little,
Erema.  Perhaps, however, I may safely say that she can not be much
under twenty."

"It is not right to provoke me so.  You call her 'the old woman,'
and compare her to your letter-box.  You must have some idea--is
she seventy?"

"Certainly not, I should say; though she can not expect me to
defend her, when she will not show her face to me; and what is far
worse, at my time of life, she won't even pay me a half-penny of
rent.  Now let us go back to Aunt Mary, my dear; she always insists
upon packing overnight."



CHAPTER XLVII

CADMEIAN VICTORY


Before two o'clock of the following day Major Hockin and myself
were in London, and ready to stay there for two or three days, if
it should prove needful.  Before leaving Bruntsea I had written
briefly to Lord Castlewood, telling him that important matters had
taken me away from Shoxford, and as soon as I could explain them, I
would come and tell him all about it.  This was done only through
fear of his being annoyed at my independence.

From London Bridge the Major took a cab direct to Clerkenwell; and
again I observed that of all his joys one of the keenest was to
match his wits against a cabman's.  "A regular muff, this time," he
said, as he jerked up and down with his usual delight in displaying
great knowledge of London; "no sport to be had out of him.  Why, he
stared at me when I said 'Rosamond Street,' and made me stick on
'Clerkenwell.'  Now here he is taking us down Snow Hill, when he
should have been crossing Smithfield.  Smithfield, cabby,
Smithfield!"

"Certain, Sir, Smiffle, if you gives the order;" and he turned the
poor horse again, and took us up the hill, and among a great number
of barriers.  "No thoroughfare," "No thoroughfare," on all hands
stretched across us; but the cabman threaded his way between, till
he came to the brink of a precipice.  The horse seemed quite ready,
like a Roman, to leap down it, seeing nothing less desirable than
his present mode of life, till a man with a pickaxe stopped him.

"What are you at?" cried the Major, with fury equalled by nothing
except his fright.  "Erema, untie my big rattan.  Quick--quick--"

"Captain," said the cabman, coolly, "I must have another shilling
for this job.  A hextra mile and a quarter, to your orders.  You
knows Lunnon so much better.  Smiffle stopped--new railway--new
meat market--never heered of that now, did you?"

"You scoundrel, drive straight to the nearest police office."

"Must jump this little ditch, then, Captain.  Five pun' fine for
you, when we gets there.  Hold on inside, old gentleman.  Kuck,
kuck, Bob, you was a hunter once.  It ain't more than fifty feet
deep, my boy."

"Turn round! turn round, I tell you! turn round!  If your neck is
forfeit, you rogue, mine is not.  I never was so taken in in my
life!"  Major Hockin continued to rave, and amid many jeers we
retreated humbly, and the driver looked in at us with a gentle
grin.  "And I thought he was so soft, you know!  Erema, may I swear
at him?"

"On no account," I said.  "Why, after all, it is only a shilling,
and the loss of time.  And then, you can always reflect that you
have discharged, as you say, a public duty, by protesting against a
vile system."

"Protesting is very well, when it pays," the Major answered,
gloomily; "but to pay for protesting is another pair of shoes."

This made him cross, and he grew quite fierce when the cabman smote
him for eight-pence more.  "Four parcels on the roof, Captain," he
said, looking as only a cabman can look at his money, and spinning
his extra shilling.  "Twopence each under new hact, you know.
Scarcely thought a hofficer would 'a tried evasion."

"You consummate scoundrel--and you dress yourself like a
countryman!  I'll have your badge indorsed--I'll have your license
marked.  Erema, pay the thief; it is more than I can do."

"Captain, your address, if you please; I shall summon you for
scurrilous language, as the hact directs.  Ah, you do right to be
driven to a pawn shop."

Triumphantly he drove off, while the Major cried, "Never tie up my
rattan again.  Oh, it was Mrs. Hockin, was it?  What a fool I was
not to stop on my own manor!"

"I pray you to disdain such low impudence," I said, for I could not
bear to see him shake like that, and grieved to have brought him
into it.  "You have beaten fifty of them--a hundred of them--I have
heard you say."

"Certainly I have, my dear; but I had no Bruntsea then, and could
not afford to pay the rogues.  That makes me feel it so bitterly,
so loftily, and so righteously.  To be treated like this, when I
think of all my labors for the benefit of the rascally human race!
my Institute, my Lyceum, my Mutual Improvement Association, and
Christian Young Men's something.  There is no institution, after
all, to be compared to the tread-mill."

Recovering himself with this fine conclusion, he led me down a
little sloping alley, scarcely wide enough for a wheelbarrow, to an
old black door, where we set down our parcels; for he had taken
his, while I carried mine, and not knowing what might happen yet,
like a true peace-maker I stuck to the sheaf of umbrellas and the
rattan cane.  And thankful I was, and so might be the cabman, to
have that weapon nicely sheathed with silk.

Major Hockin's breath was short, through too much talking without
action, and he waited for a minute at this door, to come back to
his equanimity.  And I thought that our female breath falls short
for the very opposite reason--when we do too much and talk too
little; which happily seldom happens.

He was not long in coming back to his usual sprightliness and
decision.  And it was no small relief to me, who was looking at him
miserably, and longing that his wife was there, through that very
sad one-and-eightpence, when he pulled out a key, which he always
carried as signer and lord of Bruntsea, the key of the town-hall,
which had survived lock, door, and walls by centuries, and
therewith struck a door which must have reminded that key of its
fine old youth.

Before he had knocked so very many times, the door was opened by a
young man wearing an apron and a brown paper cap, who knew Major
Hockin at once, and showed us up stairs to a long low workshop.
Here were many wheels and plates and cylinders revolving by energy
of a strap which came through the floor and went through the
ceiling.  And the young man told us to be careful how we walked,
for fear of getting entangled.  Several men, wearing paper caps and
aprons of leather or baize, were sitting doing dextrous work, no
doubt, and doing it very easily, and the master of them all was
hissing over some fine touch of jewel as a groom does at a horse.
Then seeing us, he dropped his holders, and threw a leather upon
his large lens, and came and took us to a little side room.

"Are you not afraid to leave them?" asked the Major.  "They may
secrete some gems, Mr. Handkin."

"Never," said the lapidary, with some pride.  "I could trust these
men with the Koh-i-noor; which we could have done better, I
believe, than it was done by the Hollanders.  But we don't get the
chance to do much in diamonds, through the old superstition about
Amsterdam, and so on.  No, no; the only thing I can't trust my men
about is to work as hard when I am away as when I am there.  And
now, Sir, what can I do for you?  Any more Bruntsea pebbles?  The
last were not worth the cutting."

"So you said; but I did not think so.  We have some agates as good
as any from Aberystwith or Perthshire.  But what I want now is to
open this case.  It must be done quite privately, for a most
particular reason.  It does open, doesn't it?  I am sure it does."

"Certainly it opens," Mr. Handkin answered, while I trembled with
anxiety as he lightly felt it round the edges with fingers
engrained with corundum.  "I could open it in one instant, but the
enamel might fly.  Will you risk it?"

The Major looked at me, and I said, "Oh no; please not to risk any
thing, if any slower process will do it without risk.  We want it
done without injury."

"Then it will cost a good bit," he replied.  "I can open it for
five shillings, if you run the risk; if that rests with me, I must
charge five pounds."

"Say three," cried the Major.  "Well, then, say four guineas: I
have a lot of work in store for you."

"I never overcharge, and I never depart from my figures," the
lapidary answered.  "There is only one other man in London who
knows the secret of this enamel, and he is my brother.  They never
make such enamel now.  The art is lost, like that of the French
paste of a hundred years ago, which almost puzzles even me until I
go behind it.  I will give you my brother's address if you like;
but instead of five pounds, he will charge you ten guineas--if it
must be done in private.  Without that condition, I can do it for
two pounds.  You wish to know why that should make such a
difference.  Well, for this simple reason: to make sure of the job,
it must be done by daylight; it can be done only in my chief work-
room; if no one is to see what I am about (and my men have sharp
eyes, I can tell you), all my hands must be sacked for the
afternoon, but not without their wages.  That alone would go far
toward the difference, and then there is the dropping of the jobs
in hand, and waste of power, and so on.  I have asked you too
little, Major Hockin, I assure you; but having said, I will stick
to it, although I would much rather you would let me off."

"I have known you for many years," the Major answered--"ever since
you were a boy, with a flat box, working at our Cornish opals.  You
would have done a lot of work for five pounds then.  But I never
knew you overcharge for any thing.  We agree to your terms, and are
obliged to you.  But you guarantee no damage?"

"I will open this locket, take out its contents, whatever they may
be, and reclose it so that the maker, if still alive--which is not
very probable--should not know that it had been meddled with."

"Very well; that is exactly what we want; for I have an idea about
it which I may try to go on with afterward.  And for that it is
essential to have no symptom that it ever has been opened.  What
are these brilliants worth, Mr. Handkin?"

"Well, Sir, in the trade, about a hundred and fifty, though I dare
say they cost three hundred.  And the portrait is worth another
hundred, if I find on the back the marks I expect."

"You do not mean to say that you know the artist?" I could not help
exclaiming, though determined not to speak.  "Oh, then, we shall
find out every thing!"

"Erema, you are a--well, you are a silly!" Major Hockin exclaimed,
and then colored with remembering that rather he should have let my
lapse pass.  But the lapidary seemed to pay no attention, only to
be calling down to some one far below.  "Now mind what you say,"
the Major whispered to me, just as if he were the essence of
discretion.

"The work-room is clear now," Mr. Handkin said; "the fellows were
delighted to get their afternoon.  Now you see that I have to take
off this hoop, and there lies the difficulty.  I could have taken
out the gold back, as I said, with very little trouble, by simply
cutting it.  But the locket would never have been quite the same,
though we put a new back; and, more than that, the pressure of the
tool might flaw the enamel, or even crack the portrait, for the
make of this thing is peculiar.  Now first I submit the rim or
verge, without touching the brilliants, mind you, to the action of
a little preparation of my own--a gentle but penetrative solvent.
You are welcome to watch me; you will be none the wiser; you are
not in the trade, though the young lady looks as if she would make
a good polisher.  Very well: if this were an ordinary closure, with
two flat surfaces meeting, the solvent would be absorbed into the
adhesion, expansion would take place, and there we have it.  But
this is what we call a cyme-joint, a cohesion of two curved
surfaces, formed in a reflex curve which admits the solvent most
reluctantly, or, indeed, not at all, without too long application.
For that, then, another kind of process is needful, and we find it
in frictional heat applied most gradually and judiciously.  For
that I must have a buff-leather wheel, whose revolutions are timed
to a nicety, and that wheel I only have in this room.  Now you see
why I sent the men away."

Though I watched his work with great interest, it is out of my
power to describe it now, and, moreover, it is not needful.  Major
Hockin, according to his nature, grew quite restless and impatient,
and even went out for a walk, with his cane unpacked and unsheathed
against cabmen.  But I was content to wait and watch, having always
heard and thought that good work will not do itself, but must have
time and skill to second it.  And Mr. Handkin, moving arms, palms,
and fingers beautifully, put the same thought into words.

"Good work takes a deal of time to do; but the man that does it all
the time knows well that it will take long to undo.  Here it comes
undone at last!"

As he spoke, the excitable Major returned.

"Done it, eh?  Well, you are a clever fellow.  Now don't look
inside it; that is no part of your business, nor mine either,
unless this young lady desires it.  Hand it to her first, my
friend."

"Wait half a minute," said the lapidary; "it is so far opened that
the hoop spins round, but it must not be taken off until it cools.
The lady may lift it then with care.  I have done this job as a
piece of fine art; I have no wish to see any more of it."

"Handkin, don't you be so touchy to a brother Cornishman.  I
thought that I was Cornish enough, but you go cliffs beyond me."

"Well, Major Hockin," the lapidary answered, "I beg your pardon, if
I said harm.  But a man doing careful and skilled work--and skilled
work it is, at every turn of the hand, as miss can bear witness,
while you walked off--he don't care who it is, Major Hockin, he
would fight his own brother to maintain it."

"Very well, very well.  Let us come away.  I always enter into
every body's feelings.  I see yours as clearly, Handkin, as if you
had laid them open on that blessed wheel.  My insight has always
been remarkable.  Every one, without exception, says that of me.
Now come away, come away--will you never see?"

Intent as I was upon what lay in my left palm relaxing itself, I
could not help being sorry for the way in which the man of art,
after all his care, was ground down by his brother Cornishman.
However, he had lived long enough in the world to feel no surprise
at ingratitude.

Now I went to one of the windows, as the light (which had been very
good) began to pale from its long and labored sufferance of London,
and then, with soft and steady touch, I lifted off the loosened
hoop.  A smell of mustiness--for smells go through what nothing
else can--was the first thing to perceive, and then, having moved
the disk of gold, I found a piece of vellum.  This was doubled, and
I opened it, and read, in small clear writing:


"May 7, 1809 A.D., George, Lord Castlewood, married Winifred, only
child of Thomas Hoyle, as this his signature witnesseth.

"CASTLEWOOD.

"(Witness) THOMAS HOYLE."


There was nothing more inside this locket, except two little wisps
of hair tied with gold thread, and the miniature upon ivory,
bearing on the back some anagram, probably that of the artist.

Already had I passed through a great many troubles, changes,
chances, and adventures which always seem strange (when I come to
look back), but never surprised me at the moment.  Indeed, I might
almost make bold to pronounce that not many persons of my age and
sex have been visited, wholly against their own will, by such a
series of incidents, not to say marvelous, but at any rate fairly
to be called unusual.  And throughout them perhaps it will be
acknowledged by all who have cared to consider them, that up to the
present time I did not fail more than themselves might have done in
patience.  And in no description of what came to pass have I
colored things at all in my own favor--at least so far as intention
goes--neither laid myself out to get sympathy, though it often
would have done me a world of good.

But now I am free to confess that my patience broke down very
sadly.  Why, if what was written on that vellum was true, and Major
Hockin correct as well, it came to no less than this, that my own
dear father was a base-born son, and I had no right to the name I
was so proud of!  If, moreover, as I now began to dream, that
terrible and mysterious man did not resemble my father so closely
without some good reason, it seemed too likely that he might be his
elder brother and the proper heir.

This was bad enough to think of, but an idea a thousandfold worse
assailed me in the small hours of the night, as I lay on Mrs.
Strouss's best bed, which she kept for consuls, or foreign barons,
or others whom she loved to call "international notorieties."
Having none of these now, she assigned me that bed after hearing
all I had to say, and not making all that she might have done of
it, because of the praise that would fall to Mrs. Busk.

However, she acknowledged that she knew nothing of the history of
"the poor old lord."  He might have carried on, for all she could
tell, with many wives before his true one--a thing she heard too
much of; but as for the Captain not being his true son and the
proper heir to the peerage, let any one see him walk twice, and
then have a shadow of a doubt about it!  This logic pleased but
convinced me not, and I had to go to bed in a very unhappy,
restless, and comfortless state of mind.

I hope that, rather than myself, that bed, full of international
confusion, is to blame for the wicked ideas which assailed me while
I could not even try to sleep.  One of them--and a loyal daughter
could scarcely have a worse one--was that my own dear father,
knowing Lord Castlewood's bad behavior, and his own sad plight in
consequence, and through that knowledge caring little to avenge his
death, for wife and children's sake preferred to foil inquiry
rather than confront the truth and challenge it.  He might not have
meant to go so far, at first beginning with it; but, starting once,
might be driven on by grievous loss, and bitter sense of recreant
friends, and the bleak despair of a homeless world before him.  And
serving as the scape-goat thus, he might have received from the
real culprit a pledge for concealment of the family disgrace.



CHAPTER XLVIII

A RETURN CALL


In the morning I labored to dismiss these thoughts, these shameful
suspicions, almost as injurious to my father's honor as it was to
suspect him of the crime itself.  And calling back my memories of
him, and dwelling on what Mr. Shovelin said, and Uncle Sam and
others, I became quite happy in the firm conviction that I ought to
be put upon bread and water for having such vile visions.  Then
suddenly a thing came to my mind which shattered happy penitence.

Major Hockin had spoken of another purpose which he had in store
while bringing me thus to London--another object, that is to say,
besides the opening of the trinket.  And this his second intention
was to "have it out," as he expressed it, "with that league of curs
and serpents, Vypan, Goad, and Terryer."  This was the partnership
whose card of business had been delivered at the sawmills under
circumstances which, to say the least, required explanation.  And
the Major, with strong words and tugs of his head-crest, had vowed
to get that explanation, or else put the lot of them into a police
dock.

Moreover, when, at the opening of the locket, I did not think fit
to show the lapidary what I had found inside it, except the
painting on ivory (which proved to be as he expected), and when my
companion suppressed curiosity at the risk of constitution, and
while I could scarcely tell what I was about (through sudden shock
and stupidity), I must have been hurried on to tell Major Hockin
the whole of the private things I had discovered.  For, in truth,
there was scarcely any time to think; and I was afraid of giving
way, which must have befallen me without relief of words; and being
so much disturbed I may, in the cab, have rushed off for comfort to
the Major, sitting so close to me.  No doubt I did so, from what
happened afterward; but in the morning, after such a night, I
really could not be certain what I had said to Betsy, and what to
him.

A large mind would have been steady throughout, and regarded the
question of birth as a thing to which we, who are not consulted
about it, should bear ourselves indifferently.  And gladly would I
have done so, if I could, but the power was not in me.  No doubt it
served me right for having been proud about such a trifle; but
though I could call it a trifle as long as it seemed to be in my
favor, my strength of mind was not enough to look at it so when
against me.

Betsy told me not to be like that, for I had a great deal to go
through yet, and must not be drawing on my spirit so, every atom of
which would be needful.  For the General--as she called the Major--
was coming to fetch me at eleven o'clock to face some abominable
rascals, and without any breakfast how could I do it?  Then I
remembered all about the appointment to go to Messrs. Vypan, Goad,
and Terryer, and beginning to think about them, I saw sad
confirmation of my bad ideas.  My father's wicked elder brother by
another mother had left his own rights pending, as long as my
father lived, for good reason.  For if the latter had turned
against him, through a breach of compact, things might go ill in a
criminal court; but having him silenced now by death, this man
might come forward boldly and claim estates and title.  His first
point would be to make sure as sure could be of the death of my
father, to get hold of his private papers, and of me, who might
possess dangerous knowledge.  And if this were so, one could
understand at once Mr. Goad's attempt upon Uncle Sam.

"Now none of this! none of this, I say, Erema!" Major Hockin
exclaimed, as he ran in and saw me scarcely even caring to hold my
own with the gentle Maximilian--to which name Mr. Strouss was
promoted from the too vernacular "Hans."  "My dear, I never saw you
look ill before.  Why, bless my heart, you will have crows'-feet!
Nurse, what are you doing with her?  Look at her eyes, and be
ashamed of yourself.  Give her goulard, tisane, tiffany--I never
know what the proper word is--something, any thing, volatile Sally,
hartshorn, ammonia, aromatic vinegar, saline draught, or something
strong.  Why, I want her to look at her very, very best."

"As if she was a-going to a ball, poor dear!" Betsy Strouss
replied, with some irony.  "A young lady full of high spirits by
nature, and have never had her first dance yet!  The laws and
institutions of this kingdom is too bad for me, General.  I shall
turn foreigner, like my poor husband."

"It is vere goot, vere goot always," said the placid Maximilian;
"foreigner dis way, foreigner dat way; according to de hills, or de
sea, or de fighting, or being born, or someting else."

"Hold your tongue, Hans," cried his Wilhelmina; "remember that you
are in England now, and must behave constitutionally.  None of your
loose outlandish ideas will ever get your bread in England.  Was I
born according to fighting, or hills, or sea, or any thing less
than the will of the Lord, that made the whole of them, and made
you too?  General, I beg you to excuse him, if you can.  When he
gets upon such things, he never can stop.  His goodness is very
great; but he must have a firm hand put upon his 'philosophy.'
Maximilian, you may go and smoke your pipe for an hour and a
quarter, and see where the cheapest greens and oil are, for his
Excellence is coming in to-night; and mind you get plenty of stump
in them.  His Excellence loves them, and they fill the dish,
besides coming cheaper.  Now, Miss Erema, if you please, come here.
Trust you in me, miss, and soon I will make you a credit to the
General."

I allowed her to manage my dress and all that according to her own
ideas; but when she entreated to finish me up with the "leastest
little touch of red, scarcely up to the usual color, by reason of
not sleeping," I stopped her at once, and she was quite content
with the color produced by the thought of it.  Meanwhile Major
Hockin, of course, was becoming beyond all description impatient.
He had made the greatest point of my being adorned, and expected it
done in two minutes!  And he hurried me so, when I did come down,
that I scarcely noticed either cab or horse, and put on my new
gloves anyhow.

"My dear, you look very nice," he said at last, when thoroughly
tired of grumbling.  "That scoundrel of a Goad will be quite amazed
at sight of the child he went to steal."

"Mr. Goad!" I replied, with a shudder, caused, perhaps, by dark
remembrance; "if we go to the office, you surely will not expect me
to see Mr. Goad himself?"

"That depends, as the Frenchmen say.  It is too late now to shrink
back from any thing.  If I can spare you, I will.  If not, you must
not be ashamed to show yourself."

"I am never ashamed to show myself.  But I would rather not go to
that place at all.  If things should prove to be as I begin to
think, I had better withdraw from the whole of it, and only lament
that I ever began.  My father was right; after all, my father was
wise; and I ought to have known it.  And perhaps Uncle Sam knew the
truth, and would not tell me, for fear of my rushing to the
Yosemite.  Cabman, please to turn the horse and go in the opposite
direction."  But the Major pulled me back, and the driver lifted
his elbow and said, "All right."

"Erema," the Major began, quite sternly, "things are gone a little
too far for this.  We are now embarked upon a most important
investigation"--even in my misery I could scarce help smiling at
his love of big official words--"an investigation of vast
importance.  A crime of the blackest dye has been committed, and
calmly hushed up, for some petty family reason, for a period of
almost twenty years.  I am not blaming your father, my dear; you
need not look so indignant.  It is your own course of action,
remember, which has led to the present--the present--well, let us
say imbroglio.  A man of honor and an officer of her Majesty's
service stands now committed at your request--mind, at your own
request--"

"Yes, yes, I know; but I only meant you to--to go as far as I
should wish."

"Confidential instructions, let us say; but there are times when
duty to society overrides fine feeling.  I have felt that already.
The die is cast.  No half-and-half measures, no beating about the
bush, for me.  After what I saw yesterday, and the light that burst
upon me, I did not act hastily--I never do, though slow coaches may
have said so.  I put this and that together carefully, and had my
dinner, and made up my mind.  And you see the result in that man on
the box."

"The cabman?  Oh yes, you resolved to have a cab, and drive to
those wicked informers."

"Where are your eyes?  You are generally so quick.  This morning
you are quite unlike yourself--so weak, so tearful, and timorous.
Have you not seen that by side of the cabman there sits another man
altogether?  One of the most remarkable men of the age, as your
dear Yankees say."

"Not a policeman in disguise, I hope.  I saw a very common,
insignificant man.  I thought he was the driver's groom, perhaps."

"Hush! he hears every thing, even on this granite.  He is not a
policeman; if he were, a few things that disgrace the force never
would happen.  If the policemen of England did their duty as our
soldiers do, at once I would have gone to them; my duty would have
been to do so.  As it is, I go to our private police, who would not
exist if the force were worth a rap.  Vypan, Goad, and Terryer, in
spite of Goad's clumsiness, rank second.  I go to the first of all
these firms, and I get their very cleverest rascal."

Major Hockin, speaking in this hoarse whisper--for he could not
whisper gently--folded his arms, and then nodded his head, as much
as to say, "I have settled it now.  You have nothing to do but
praise me."  But I was vexed and perplexed too much to trust my
voice with an answer.

"The beauty of this arrangement is," he continued, with vast
complacency, "that the two firms hate one another as the devil
hates--no, that won't do; there is no holy water to be found among
them--well, as a snake hates a slow-worm, let us say.  'Set a thief
to catch a thief' is a fine old maxim; still better when the two
thieves have robbed one another."

As he spoke, the noble stranger slipped off the driving seat
without troubling the cabman to stop his jerking crawl, and he did
it so well that I had no chance of observing his nimble face or
form.  "You are disappointed," said the Major, which was the last
thing I would have confessed.  "You may see that man ten thousand
times, and never be able to swear to him.  Ha! ha! he is a oner!"

"I disdain such mean tricks beyond all expression," I exclaimed, as
was only natural, "and every thing connected with them.  It is so
low to talk of such things.  But what in the world made him do it?
Where does he come from, and what is his name?"

"Like all noble persons, he has got so many names that he does not
know which is the right one; only his are short and theirs are
long.  He likes 'Jack' better than any thing else, because it is
not distinctive.  'Cosmopolitan Jack,' some call him, from his
combining the manners and customs, features and figures, of nearly
all mankind.  He gets on with every one, for every one is gratified
by seeing himself reflected in him.  And he can jump from one frame
to another as freely as Proteus or the populace.  And yet, with all
that, he is perfectly honest to any allegiance he undertakes.  He
would not betray us to Vypan, Goad, and Terryer for your great
nugget and the Castlewood estates."

"I have heard that there are such people," I said; "but what can he
possibly know about me?  And what is he coming to do for us now?"

"He knows all about you, for a very simple reason.  That you do not
know him, is a proof of his ability.  For you must have met him
times out of number.  This is the fellow employed by your good but
incapable cousin, Lord Castlewood."

"He is not incapable; he is a man of great learning, and noble
character--"

"Well, never mind that; you must not be so hot.  What I mean is
that he has done nothing for you beyond providing for your safety.
And that he certainly did right well, and at considerable expense,
for this man can't be had for nothing.  You need have been under no
terror at all in any of the scenes you have been through.  Your
safety was watched for continually."

"Then why did he not come and help me?  Why did he not find out
that horrible man?"

"Because it was not in his orders, and Jack is the last man to go
beyond those.  He is so clever that the stupid Moonites took him
for a stupid Moonite.  You should have employed him yourself,
Erema; but you are so proud and independent."

"I should hope so, indeed.  Should I put up with deceit?  If the
truth is not to be had without falsehood, it is not worth having.
But what is this man to do here now?"

"That depends upon circumstances.  He has better orders than I
could give, for I am no hand at scheming.  Here we are; or here we
stop.  Say nothing till I tell you.  Pray allow me the honor.  You
keep in the background, remember, with your veil, or whatever you
call it, down.  Nobody stops at the very door.  Of course that is
humbug--we conform to it."

With a stiff inclination, the gallant Major handed me out of the
cab in a quiet corner of a narrow street, then paid the driver with
less fuss than usual, and led me into a queer little place marked
in almost illegible letters, "Little England Polygon."  "You have
the card, my dear?" he whispered; "keep it till I call you in.  But
be ready to produce it in a moment.  For the rest, I leave you to
your own wit.  Jack is on the watch, mind."

There were two doors near together, one a brave door with a plate,
and swung on playing hinges, the other of too secluded a turn to
even pronounce itself "private."  We passed through the public
door, and found only a lobby, with a boy on guard.  "Mr. Goad?
Yes, Sir.  This way, Sir," cried the boy.  "Lady stay?  Yes, Sir;
waiting-room for ladies.  Chair, miss; here, if you please--first
right.  Mr. Goad, second on the left.  Knock twice.  Paper, miss?
Poker chained at this time of year.  Bell A, glass of water.  Bell
B, cup of tea, if ladies grows impatient."

If I had been well, I might have reduced this boy to his proper
magnitude, for I never could endure young flippancy; but my spirits
were so low that the boy banged the door with a fine sense of
having vanquished me.  And before there was any temptation to ring
Bell A, not to mention Bell B, the sound of a wrathful voice began
coming.  Nearer and nearer it came, till the Major strode into the
"ladies' waiting-room," and used language no ladies should wait
for.

"Oh, don't!" I said; "what would Mrs. Hockin say?  And consider me
too, Major Hockin, if you please."

"I have considered you, and that makes me do it.  Every body knows
what I am.  Did I ever exaggerate in all my life?  Did I ever say
any thing without just grounds?  Did I ever take any distorted
views?  Did I ever draw upon my imagination?  Erema, answer me this
instant!"

"I do not remember a single instance of your drawing upon your
imagination," I answered, gravely, and did not add, "because there
is none to draw upon."

"Very well.  I was sure of your concurrence.  Then just come with
me.  Take my arm, if you please, and have the thief's card ready.
Now keep your temper and your self-command."

With this good advice, the Major, whose arm and whole body were
jerking with wrath, led me rapidly down the long passage and
through a door, and my eyes met the eyes of the very man who had
tried to bribe Uncle Sam of me.  He never saw me then, and he did
not know me now; but his insolent eyes fell under mine.  I looked
at him quietly, and said nothing.

"Now, Mr. Goad, you still assert that you never were in California--
never even crossed the Atlantic.  This young lady under my
protection--don't you be afraid, my dear--is the Honorable Erema
Castlewood, whom you, in the pay of a murderer, went to fetch, and
perhaps to murder.  Now, do you acknowledge it?  You wrote her
description, and ought to know her.  You double-dyed villain, out
with it!"

"Major Hockin," said Mr. Goad, trying to look altogether at his
ease, but failing, and with his bull-dog forehead purple, "if
indeed you are an officer--which I doubt for the credit of her
Majesty's service--if the lady were not present, I should knock you
down."  And the big man got up as if to do it.

"Never mind her," my companion answered, in a magnanimous manner;
"she has seen worse than that, poor thing.  Here I am--just come
and do it."

The Major was scarcely more than half the size of Mr. Goad in mere
bodily bulk, and yet he defied him in this way.  He carefully took
his blue lights off, then drew up the crest of his hair, like his
wife's most warlike cock a-crowing, and laid down his rattan upon a
desk, and doubled his fists, and waited.  Then he gave a blink from
the corner of his gables, clearly meaning, "Please to stop and see
it out."  It was a distressing thing to see, and the Major's
courage was so grand that I could not help smiling.  Mr. Goad,
however, did not advance, but assumed a superior manner.

"Major," he said, "we are not young men; we must not be so hasty.
You carry things with too high a hand, as veteran officers are apt
to do.  Sir, I make allowance for you; I retract my menace, and
apologize.  We move in different spheres of life, Sir, or I would
offer you my hand."

"No, thank you!" the Major exclaimed, and then looked sorry for his
arrogance.  "When a man has threatened me, and that man sees the
mistake of doing so, I am pacified, Sir, in a moment; but it takes
me some time to get over it.  I have served his Gracious Majesty,
and now hers, in every quarter of the civilized globe, with
distinction, Sir--with distinction, and thanks, and no profit to
taint the transaction, Sir.  In many battles I have been menaced
with personal violence, and have received it, as in such positions
is equitable.  I am capable, Sir, of receiving it still, and
repaying it, not without interest."

"Hang it, Major, if a man is sorry, a soldier forgives him frankly.
You abused me, and I rashly threatened you.  I beg your pardon, as
a man should do, and that should be an end to it."

"Very well, very well; say no more about it.  But am I to
understand that you still deny in that barefaced manner, with my
witness here, the fact of your having been at Colonel Gundry's--my
cousin, Sir, and a man not to be denied, without an insult to
myself--a man who possesses ingots of gold, ingots of gold, enough
to break the Bank of England, and a man whose integrity doubles
them all.  Have you not heard of the monster nugget, transcending
the whole of creation, discovered by this young lady looking at
you, in the bed of the saw-mill river, and valued at more than half
a million?"

"You don't mean to say so?  When was it?  Sylvester never said a
word about it--the papers, I mean, never mentioned it."

"Try no more--well, I won't say lies, though they are confounded
lies--what I mean is, no further evasion, Mr. Goad.  Sylvester's
name is enough, Sir.  Here is the card of your firm, with your own
note of delivery on the back, handed by you to my cousin, the
Colonel.  And here stands the lady who saw you do it."

"Major, I will do my very best to remember.  I am here, there,
every where--China one day, Peru the next, Siberia the day after.
And this young lady found the nugget, did she?  How wonderfully
lucky she must be!"

"I am lucky; I find out every thing; and I shall find out you, Mr.
Goad."  Thus I spoke on the spur of the moment, and I could not
have spoken better after a month of consultation.  Rogues are
generally superstitious.  Mr. Goad glanced at me with a shudder, as
I had gazed at him some three years back; and then he dropped his
bad, oily-looking eyes.

"I make mistakes sometimes," he said, "as to where I have been and
where I have not.  If this young lady saw me there, it stands to
reason that I may have been there.  I have a brother extremely
similar.  He goes about a good deal also.  Probably you saw my
brother."

"I saw no brother of yours, but yourself.  Yourself--your mean and
cowardly self--and I shall bring you to justice."

"Well, well," he replied, with a poor attempt to turn the matter
lightly; "I never contradict ladies; it is an honor to be so
observed by them.  Now, Major, can you give me any good reason for
drawing upon a bad memory?  My time is valuable.  I can not refer
to such by-gone matters for nothing."

"We will not bribe you, if that is what you mean," Major Hockin
made answer, scornfully.  "This is a criminal case, and we have
evidence you little dream of.  Our only offer is--your own safety,
if you make a clean breast of it.  We are on the track of a
murderer, and your connection with him will ruin you.  Unless you
wish to stand in the dock at his side, you will tell us every
thing."

"Sir, this is violent language."

"And violent acts will follow it: if you do not give up your
principal, and every word you know about him, you will leave this
room in custody.  I have Cosmopolitan Jack outside, and the police
at a sign from him will come."

"Is this job already in the hands of the police, then?"

"No, not yet.  I resolved to try you first.  If you refuse, it will
be taken up at once; and away goes your last chance, Sir."

Mr. Goad's large face became like a field of conflicting passions
and low calculations.  Terror, fury, cupidity, and doggedness never
had a larger battle-field.

"Allow me at least to consult my partners," he said, in a low voice
and almost with a whine; "we may do things irregular sometimes, but
we never betray a client."

"Either betray your client or yourself," the Major answered, with a
downright stamp.  "You shall consult no one.  You have by this
watch forty-five seconds to consider it."

"You need not trouble yourself to time me," the other answered,
sulkily; "my duty to the firm overrides private feeling.  Miss
Castlewood, I call you to witness, since Major Hockin is so
peppery--"

"Peppery, Sir, is the very last word that ever could be applied to
me.  My wife, my friends, every one that knows me, even my
furthest-off correspondents, agree that I am pure patience."

"It may be so, Major; but you have not shown it.  Miss Castlewood,
I have done you no harm.  If you had been given up to me, you would
have been safer than where you were.  My honor would have been
enlisted.  I now learn things which I never dreamed of--or, at
least--at least only lately.  I always believed the criminality to
be on the other side.  We never ally ourselves with wrong.  But
lately things have come to my knowledge which made me doubtful as
to facts.  I may have been duped--I believe I have been: I am
justified, therefore, in turning the tables."

"If you turn tables," broke in the Major, who was grumbling to
himself at the very idea of having any pepper in his nature--"Goad,
if you turn tables, mind you, you must do it better than the
mesmerists.  Out of this room you do not stir; no darkness--no
bamboozling!  Show your papers, Sir, without sleight of hand.
Surrender, or you get no quarter."

To me it was quite terrifying to see my comrade thus push his
victory.  Mr. Goad could have killed him at any moment, and but for
me perhaps would have done so.  But even in his fury he kept on
casting glances of superstitious awe at me, while I stood quite
still and gazed at him.  Then he crossed the room to a great case
of drawers, unlocked something above the Major's head, made a
sullen bow, and handed him a packet.



CHAPTER XLIX

WANTED, A SAWYER


To judge Mr. Goad by his own scale of morality and honor, he
certainly had behaved very well through a trying and unexpected
scene.  He fought for his honor a great deal harder than ever it
could have deserved of him; and then he strove well to appease it
with cash, the mere thought of which must have flattered it.
However, it was none the worse for a little disaster of this kind.
At the call of duty it coalesced with interest and fine sense of
law, and the contact of these must have strengthened it to face any
future production.

For the moment he laid it aside in a drawer--and the smallest he
possessed would hold it--and being compelled to explain his
instructions (partly in short-hand and partly in cipher), he
kindly, and for the main of it truly, interpreted them as follows:

"July 31, 1858.--Received directions from M. H. to attend without
fail, at whatever expense, to any matter laid before us by a tall,
dark gentleman bearing his card.  M. H. considerably in our debt;
but his father can not last long.  Understand what he means, having
dealt with this matter before, and managed well with it.

"August 2.--Said gentleman called, gave no name, and was very
close.  Had experienced some great wrong.  Said that he was true
heir to the C. estates now held by Lord C.  Only required a little
further evidence to claim them; and some of this was to be got
through us.  Important papers must be among the effects of the old
lord's son, lately dead in California, the same for whom a reward
had been offered, and we had been employed about it.  Must get
possession of those papers, and of the girl, if possible.  Yankees
to be bribed, at whatever figure, and always stand out for a high
one.  Asked where funds were to come from; gave good reference, and
verified it.  To be debited to the account of M. H.  Said we would
have nothing to do with it without more knowledge of our principal.
Replied, with anger, that he himself was Lord C., ousted by
usurpers.  Had not the necessary proofs as yet, but would get them,
and blast all his enemies.  Had doubts about his sanity, and still
greater about his solvency.  Resolved to inquire into both points.

"August 3.--M. H. himself, as cool as ever, but shammed to be
indignant.  Said we were fools if we did not take it up.  Not a
farthing would he pay of his old account, and fellows like us could
not bring actions.  Also a hatful of money was to be made of this
job, managed snugly.  Emigrants to California were the easiest of
all things to square up.  A whole train of them disappeared this
very year, by Indians or Mormons, and no bones made.  The best and
most active of us must go--too ticklish for an agent.  We must
carry on all above-board out there, and as if sent by British
government.  In the far West no one any wiser.  Resolved to go
myself, upon having a certain sum in ready.

"August 5.--The money raised.  Start for Liverpool to-morrow.
Require a change, or would not go.  May hit upon a nugget, etc.,
etc."

Mr. Goad's memoranda of his adventures, and signal defeat by Uncle
Sam, have no claim to be copied here, though differing much from my
account.  With their terse unfeeling strain, they might make people
laugh who had not sadder things to think of.  And it matters very
little how that spy escaped, as such people almost always seem to
do.

"Two questions, Goad, if you please," said Major Hockin, who had
smiled sometimes, through some of his own remembrances; "what has
happened since your return, and what is the name of the gentleman
whom you have called 'M.H.?'"

"Is it possible that you do not know, Sir?  Why, he told us quite
lately that you were at his back!  You must know Sir Montague
Hockin."

"Yes, yes; certainly I do," the old man said, shortly, with a quick
gleam in his eyes; "a highly respected gentleman now, though he may
have sown his wild oats like the rest.  To be sure; of course I
know all about it.  His meaning was good, but he was misled."

In all my little experience of life nothing yet astonished me more
than this.  I scarcely knew whom to believe, or what.  That the
Major, most upright of men, should take up his cousin's roguery--
all new to him--and speak of him thus!  But he gave me a nudge; and
being all confusion, I said nothing, and tried to look at neither
of them, because my eyes must always tell the truth.

"As to the other point," Mr. Goad went on; "since my embassy
failed, we have not been trusted with the confidence we had the
right to expect.  Ours is a peculiar business, Sir:  'Trust me in
all, or trust me not at all,' as one of our modern poets says, is
the very essence of it.  And possibly, Major, if that had been
done, even your vigor and our sense of law might not have extorted
from me what you have heard.  Being cashiered, as we are, we act
according to the strictest honor in divulging things no longer
confided to us."

"Goad, you have done yourself the utmost credit, legally,
intellectually, and--well, I will not quite say morally.  If I ever
have a nasty job to do--at least I mean a stealthy one--which God,
who has ever kept me straight, forbid!--I will take care not to
lose your address.  I have a very queer thing occurring on my
manor--I believe it is bound up with this affair--never mind; I
must think--I hate all underhanded work."

"Major, our charges are strictly moderate.  We do in a week what
takes lawyers a twelvemonth.  Allow me to hand you one of our new
cards."

"No, no.  My pockets are all full.  And I don't want to have it
found among my papers.  No offense, Mr. Goad, no offense at all.
Society is not as it was when I was young.  I condemn no modern
institutions, Sir, though the world gets worse every day of its
life."

In terror of committing himself to any connection with such a firm,
the Major put on his dark lights again, took up his cane, and let
every body know, with a summary rap on the floor, that he might
have relaxed, but would not allow any further liberty about it.
And as he marched away, not proudly, yet with a very nice firmness,
I was almost afraid to say any thing to him to disturb his high
mental attitude.  For Mrs. Hockin must have exclaimed that here was
a noble spectacle.

"But one thing," I forced myself to suggest; "do ask one thing
before we go.  That strange man who called himself 'Lord
Castlewood' here, and 'Captain Brown' at Soberton--have they any
idea where to find him now?  And why does he not come forward?"

My comrade turned back, and put these questions; and the private
inquirer answered that they had no idea of his whereabouts, but
could easily imagine many good reasons for his present reserve of
claim.  For instance, he might be waiting for discovery of further
evidence; or (which was even more likely) for the death of the
present Lord Castlewood, which could not be very far distant, and
would remove the chief opponent.  It grieved me deeply to find that
my cousin's condition was so notorious, and treated of in such a
cold-blooded way, like a mule fallen lame, or a Chinaman in Frisco.

"My dear, you must grow used to such things," Major Hockin
declared, when he saw that I was vexed, after leaving those selfish
premises.  "If it were not for death, how could any body live?
Right feeling is shown by considering such points, and making for
the demise of others even more preparation than for our own.
Otherwise there is a selfishness about it by no means Christian-
minded.  You look at things always from such an intense and even
irreligious point of view.  But such things are out of my line
altogether.  Your Aunt Mary understands them best."

"Would you be able," I said, "to account to Aunt Mary conscientiously
for that dreadful story which I heard you tell?  I scarcely knew
where I stood, Major Hockin."

"You mean about Montague?  Family honor must be defended at any
price.  Child, I was greatly pained to go beyond the truth; but in
such a case it is imperative.  I was shocked and amazed at my
cousin's conduct; but how could I let such a fellow know that?  And
think what I owe to his father, Sir Rufus?  No, no; there are times
when Bayard himself must stretch a point.  Honor and religion alike
demand it; and Mrs. Hockin need never hear of it."

"Certainly I shall not speak of it," I answered, though a little
surprised at his arguments; "but you mean, of course, to find out
all about it.  It seems to me such a suspicious thing.  But I never
could bear Sir Montague."

The Major smiled grimly, and, perceiving that he wished to drop the
subject, I said no more.  He had many engagements in London always,
and I must not attempt to engross his time.  However, he would not
for a moment hear of leaving me any where but with Betsy, for
perhaps he saw how strange I was.  And, being alone at last with
her, I could keep up my pride no longer.

Through all that had happened, there never had been such a dreadful
trial as I had borne this day without a word to any one.  Danger
and loss and sad dreariness of mind, from want of young
companionship; mystery also, and obscurity of life, had always been
my fortune.  With all of these I had striven, to the best of my
very small ability, having from nature no gift except the dull one
of persistence.  And throughout that struggle I had felt quite sure
that a noble yearning for justice and a lofty power of devotion
were my two impelling principles.  But now, when I saw myself
sprung of low birth, and the father of my worship base-born, down
fell all my arduous castles, and I craved to go under the earth and
die.

For every word of Mr. Goad, and every crooked turn of little things
in twist against me--even the Major's last grim smile--all began to
work together, and make up a wretched tumult, sounding in my ears
like drums.  Where was the use of going on, of proving any body's
guilt or any body's innocence, if the utmost issue of the whole
would be to show my father an impostor?  Then, and only then, I
knew that love of abstract justice is to little minds impossible,
that sense of honor is too prone to hang on chance of birth, and
virtue's fountain, self-respect, springs but ill from parental
taint.

When I could no longer keep such bitter imaginings to myself, but
poured them forth to Betsy, she merely laughed, and asked me how I
could be such a simpleton.  Only to think of my father in such a
light was beyond her patience!  Where was my pride, she would like
to know, and my birth, and my family manners?  However, she did
believe there was something in my ideas, if you turned them inside
out, and took hold of them by the other end.  It was much more
likely, to her mind, that the villain, the unknown villain at the
bottom of all the misery, was really the son born out of wedlock,
if any such there were at all, and therefore a wild harum-scarum
fellow like Ishmael in the Book of Genesis.  And it would be just
of a piece, she thought, with the old lord's character to drive
such a man to desperation by refusing to give him a farthing.

"All that might very well be," I answered; "but it would in no way
serve to explain my father's conduct, which was the great mystery
of all."  Nevertheless, I was glad to accept almost any view of the
case rather than that which had forced itself upon me since the
opening of the locket.  Any doubt of that most wretched conclusion
was a great relief while it lasted; and, after so long a time of
hope and self-reliance, should I cast away all courage through a
mere suspicion?

While I was thus re-assuring myself, and being re-assured by my
faithful nurse, sad news arrived, and drove my thoughts into
another crooked channel.  Mrs. Hockin, to meet my anxiety for some
tidings from California, had promised that if any letter came, she
would not even wait for the post, but forward it by special
messenger.  And thus, that very same evening, I received a grimy
epistle, in an unknown hand, with the postmark of Sacramento.
Tearing it open, I read as follows:


"MISS 'REMA,--No good luck ever came, since you, to this Blue River
Station, only to be washed away, and robbed by greasers, and shot
through the ribs, and got more work than can do, and find an
almighty nugget sent by Satan.  And now the very worst luck of all
have come, wholly and out of all denial, by you and your faces and
graces and French goings on.  Not that I do not like you, mind; for
you always was very polite to me, and done your best when you found
me trying to put up with the trials put on me.  But now this trial
is the worst of all that ever come to my establishings; and to go
away now as I used to think of doing when tyrannized upon is out of
my way altogether, and only an action fit for a half-breed.  Sawyer
Gundry hath cut and run, without a word behind him--no instructions
for orders in hand, and pouring in--no directions where to find
him, not even 'God bless you' to any one of the many hands that
looked up to him.  Only a packet of dollars for me to pay the wages
for two months to come, and a power of lawyer to receive all debts,
and go on anyhow just the same.  And to go on just the same is more
than the worst of us has the heart for, without the sight of his
old red face.  He may have been pretty sharp, and too much the
master now and then, perhaps; but to do without him is a darned
sight worse, and the hands don't take to me like him.  Many's the
time I have seen his faults, of having his own way, and such likes,
and paying a man beyond his time if his wife was out of order.  And
many's the time I have said myself I was fitter to be at the head
of it.

"About that I was right enough, perhaps, if I had started upon my
own hook; but to stand in the tracks he has worn to his own foot is
to go into crooked compasses.  There is never a day without some
hand threatening to strike and to better himself, as if they were
hogs to come and go according to the acorns; and such low words I
can never put up with, and packs them off immediate.  No place can
be carried on if the master is to shut up his lips to impudence.
And now I have only got three hands left, with work enough for
thirty, and them three only stopped on, I do believe, to grumble of
me if the Sawyer do come home!

"But what we all want to know--and old Suan took a black stick to
make marks for you--is why the old man hath run away, and where.
Young Firm, who was getting a sight too uppish for me to have long
put up with him, he was going about here, there, and every where,
from the very first time of your going away, opening his mouth a
deal too much, and asking low questions how long I stopped to
dinner.  Old Suan said he was troubled in his mind, as the pale-
faces do about young girls, instead of dragging them to their
wigwams; and she would give him a spell to get over it.  But
nothing came of that; and when the war broke out, he had words with
his grandfather, and went off, so they said, to join the rebels.

"Sawyer let him go, as proud as could be, though he would sooner
have cut his own head off; and the very same night he sat down by
his fire and shammed to eat supper as usual.  But I happened to go
in to get some orders, and, my heart, I would never wish to see
such things again!

"The old man would never waste a bit of victuals, as you know, Miss
'Rema; and, being acquaint with Suan's way of watching, he had
slipped all his supper aside from his plate, and put it on a clean
pocket-handkerchief to lock it in the press till his appetite
should serve; and I caught him in the act, and it vexed him.
'Ha'n't you the manners to knock at the door?' he said; and I said,
'Certainly,' and went back and done it; and, troubled as he was, he
grinned a bit.  Then he bowed his great head, as he always did when
he knew he had gone perhaps a trifle too far with a man in my
position.  I nodded to forgive him, and he stood across, and saw
that he could do no less than liquor me, after such behavior.  But
he only brought out one glass; and I said, 'Come, Colonel, square
is square, you know.'  'Excuse of me, Martin,' he said; 'but no
drop of strong drink passes the brim of my mouth till this
gallivanting is done with.  I might take too much, as the old men
do, to sink what they don't want to think on.'  'You mean about
bully-cock Firm,' says I; 'rebel Firm--nigger-driver Firm.'
'Hush!' he said; 'no bad words about it.  He has gone by his
conscience and his heart.  What do we know of what come inside of
him?'

"This was true enough, for I never did make that boy out to my
liking: and the old man now was as stiff as a rock, and pretty nigh
as peculiar.  He made me a cocktail of his own patent, to show how
firm his hand was; but the lines of his face was like wainscot
mouldings, and the cords of his arm stood out like cogs.  Then he
took his long pipe, as he may have done perhaps every blessed night
for the last fifty years; but that length of time ought to have
learned him better than to go for to fill it upside down.  'Ha,
ha!' he said; 'every thing is upside down since I was a man under
heaven--countries and nations and kindreds and duties; and why not
a old tobacco-pipe?  That's the way babies blow bubbles with them.
We shall all have to smoke 'em that way if our noble republic is
busted up.  Fill yours, and try it, Martin.'

"Instead of enjoying my cocktail, Miss 'Rema, I never was so down
at mouth; for, to my mind, his old heart was broken while he
carried on so.  And let every body say what they will, one thing
there is no denying of.  Never was seen on this side of the big
hills a man fit to walk in the tracks of Uncle Sam, so large and
good-hearted according to his lights, hard as a grizzly bear for a
man to milk him, but soft in the breastbone as a young prairie-hen
for all folk down upon their nine-pins.

"You may be surprised, miss, to find me write so long.  Fact is,
the things won't go out of my mind without it.  And it gives me a
comfort, after all I may have said, to put good opinions upon
paper.  If he never should turn up again, my language will be to
his credit; whereas if he do come back, with the betting a horse to
a duck against it, to his pride he will read this testimonial of
yours, faithfully, MARTIN CLOGFAST.

"P.S.--Can't carry on like this much longer.  Enough to rip one's
heart up.  You never would know the old place, miss.  The heads of
the horses is as long as their tails with the way they carry them;
the moss is as big as a Spaniard's beard upon the kitchen door-
sill; and the old dog howls all day and night, like fifty thousand
scalpers.  Suan saith, if you was to come back, the lad might run
home after you.  'Tisn't the lad I cares about so much, but poor
old Sawyer, at his time of life, swallowed up in the wilderness."



CHAPTER L

THE PANACEA


As if my own trouble were not enough, so deeply was I grieved by
this sad news that I had a great mind to turn back on my own and
fly to far-off disasters.  To do so appeared for the moment a noble
thing, and almost a duty; but now, looking back, I perceive that my
instinct was right when it told me to stay where I was, and see out
my own sad story first.  And Betsy grew hot at the mere idea of my
hankering after a miller's affairs, as she very rudely expressed
it.  To hear about lords and ladies, and their crimes and
adventures, was lovely; but to dwell upon people of common birth,
and in trade, was most unbeseeming.  A man who mended his own mill,
and had hands like horn--well, even she was of better blood than
that, she hoped.

Before these large and liberal views had fairly been expounded,
Major Hockin arrived, with his mind in such a state that he opened
his watch every second.

"Erema, I must speak to you alone," he cried; "no, not even you,
Mrs. Strouss, if you please.  If my ward likes to tell you, why, of
course she can; but nobody shall say that I did.  There are things
that belong to the family alone.  The most loyal retainers--you
know what I mean."

"General, I was not aware that you belonged to the family.  But
this way, Sir; this way, if you please.  There is lath and plaster
to that wall, and a crack in the panel of the door, Sir.  But here
is a room where I keep my jams, with double brick and patent locks,
from sweet-toothed lodgers.  The 'scutcheon goes over the key-hole,
General.  Perhaps you will see to that, while I roll up the carpet
outside; and then, if any retainers come, you will hear their
footsteps."

"Bless the woman, what a temper she has!" whispered the Major, in
dread of her ears.  "Is she gone, Erema?  She wants discipline."

"Yes, she is gone," I said, trying to be lightsome; "but you are
enough to frighten any one."

"So far from that, she has quite frightened me.  But never mind
such trifles.  Erema, since I saw you I have discovered, I may
almost say, every thing."

Coming upon me so suddenly, even with all allowance made for the
Major's sanguine opinion of his own deeds, this had such effect
upon my flurried brain that practice alone enabled me to stand
upright and gaze at him.

"Perhaps you imagined when you placed the matter in my hands, Miss
Castlewood," he went on, with sharp twinkles from the gables of his
eyes, but soft caresses to his whiskers, "that you would be left in
the hands of a man who encouraged a crop of hay under his feet.
Never did you or any body make a greater mistake.  That is not my
character, Miss Castlewood."

"Why do you call me 'Miss Castlewood' so?  You quite make me doubt
my own right to the name."

Major Hockin looked at me with surprise, which gladdened even more
than it shamed me.  Clearly his knowledge of all, as he described
it, did not comprise the disgrace which I feared.

"You are almost like Mrs. Strouss to-day," he answered, with some
compassion.  "What way is the wind?  I have often observed that
when one female shows asperity, nearly all the others do the same.
The weather affects them more than men, because they know nothing
about it.  But to come back--are you prepared to hear what I have
got to tell you?"

I bowed without saying another word.  For he should be almost the
last of mankind to give a lecture upon irritation.

"Very well; you wish me to go on.  Perceiving how sadly you were
upset by the result of those interviews, first with Handkin, and
then with Goad, after leaving you here I drove at once to the
office, studio, place of business, or whatever you please to call
it, of the famous fellow in the portrait line, whose anagram,
private mark, or whatever it is, was burned into the back of the
ivory.  Handkin told me the fellow was dead, or, of course, his
work would be worth nothing; but the name was carried on, and the
register kept, at a little place somewhere in Soho, where, on the
strength of his old repute, they keep up a small trade with
inferior hands.  I gave them a handsome order for a thing that will
never be handsome, I fear--my old battered physiognomy.  And then I
produced the locket which in some queer state of mind you had given
me, and made them hunt out their old books, and at last discovered
the very entry.  But to verify it I must go to Paris, where his son
is living."

"Whose son?  Lord Castlewood's?"

"Erema, have you taken leave of your senses?  What son has Lord
Castlewood?  The artist's son, to be sure; the son of the man who
did the likeness.  Is it the vellum and the stuff upon it that has
so upset your mind?  I am glad that you showed it to me, because it
would have been mean to do otherwise.  But show it to no one else,
my dear, except your cousin, Lord Castlewood.  He has the first
right of all to know it, though he will laugh at it as I do.
Trumpery of that sort!  Let them produce a certified copy of a
register.  If they could do that, need they ever have shot that
raffish old lord--I beg pardon, my dear--your highly respected
grandfather?  No, no; don't tell me.  Nicholas Hockin was never in
any way famous for want of brains, my dear, and he tells you to
keep your pluck up."

"I never can thank you enough," I replied, "for such inspiriting
counsel.  I have been rather miserable all this day.  And I have
had such a letter from America!"

Without my intending any offer of the kind, or having such idea at
the furthest tip of any radius of mind, I found myself under a
weight about the waist, like the things the young girls put on now.
And this was the arm of the Major, which had been knocked about in
some actions, but was useful still to let other people know, both
in this way and that, what he thought of them.  And now it let me
know that he pitied me.

This kindness from so old a soldier made me partial to him.  He had
taken an age to understand me, because my father was out of the
army almost before I was born, and therefore I had no traditions.
Also, from want of drilling, I had been awkward to this officer,
and sometimes mutinous, and sometimes a coward.  All that, however,
he forgave me when he saw me so downhearted; and while I was
striving to repress all signs, the quivering of my lips perhaps
suggested thoughts of kissing.  Whereupon he kissed my forehead
with nice dry lips, and told me not to be at all afraid.

"How many times have you been brave?" he inquired, to set me
counting, knowing from all his own children, perhaps, that nothing
stops futile tears and the waste of sobs like prompt arithmetic.
"Six, if not seven, times you have displayed considerable valor.
Are you going to fall away through some wretched imagination of
your own?  Now don't stop to argue--time will not allow it.  I have
put Cosmopolitan Jack as well upon the track of Captain Brown.  I
have not told you half of what I could tell, and what I am doing;
but never mind, never mind; it is better that you should not know
too much, my dear.  Young minds, from their want of knowledge of
the world, are inclined to become uneasy.  Now go to bed and sleep
soundly, Erema, for we have lots to do to-morrow, and you have had
a most worrying day to-day.  To-morrow, of course, you must come
with me to Paris.  You can parleyvoo better than I can."

However, as it happened, I did nothing of the kind, for when he
came back in the morning, and while he was fidgeting and hurrying
me, and vowing that we should lose the tidal train, a letter from
Bruntsea was put into my hand.  I saw Mrs. Price's clear writing,
followed by good Aunt Mary's crooked lines, and knew that the
latter must have received it too late to be sent by her messenger.
In few words it told me that if I wished to see my cousin alive,
the only chance was to start immediately.

Shock and self-reproach and wonder came (as usual) before grief,
which always means to stay, and waits to get its mourning ready.  I
loved and respected my cousin more deeply than any one living, save
Uncle Sam; and now to lose them both at once seemed much too
dreadful to be true.  There was no time to think.  I took the
Major's cab, and hurried off to Paddington, leaving him to catch
his tidal train.

Alas! when I got to Castlewood, there was but a house of mourning!
Faithful Stixon's eyes were dim, and he pointed upward and said,
"Hush!"  I entered with great awe, and asked, "How long?"  And he
said, "Four-and-twenty hours now; and a more peacefuller end was
never seen, and to lament was sinful; but he was blessed if he
could help it."  I told him, through my tears, that this was
greatly to his credit, and he must not crush fine feelings, which
are an honor to our nature.  And he said that I was mistress now,
and must order him to my liking.

I asked him to send Mrs. Price to me, if she was not too busy; and
he answered that he believed her to be a very good soul, and handy.
And if he ever had been thought to speak in a sense disparishing
of her, such things should not be borne in mind, with great
afflictions over us.  Mrs. Price, hearing that I was come, already
was on her way to me, and now glanced at the door for Mr. Stixon to
depart, in a manner past misunderstanding.

"He gives himself such airs!" she said; "sometimes one would think--
but I will not trouble you now with that, Miss Castlewood, or Lady
Castlewood--which do you please to be called, miss?  They say that
the barony goes on, when there is no more Viscount."

"I please to be called 'Miss Castlewood,' even if I have any right
to be called that.  But don't let us talk of such trifles now.  I
wish to hear only of my cousin."

"Well, you know, ma'am, what a sufferer he has been for years.
If ever an angel had pains all over, and one leg compulsory of a
walking-stick, that angel was his late lordship.  He would stand up
and look at one, and give orders in that beautiful silvery voice of
his, just as if he was lying on a bed of down.  And never a twitch,
nor a hitch in his face, nor his words, nor any other part of him.
I assure you, miss, that I have been quite amazed and overwhelmed
with interest while looking at his poor legs, and thinking--"

"I can quite enter into it.  I have felt the same.  But please to
come to what has happened lately."

"The very thing I was at the point of doing.  Then last Sunday, God
alone knows why, the pain did not come on at all.  For the first
time for seven years or more the pain forgot the time-piece.  His
lordship thought that the clock was wrong; but waited with his
usual patience, though missing it from the length of custom,
instead of being happy.  But when it was come to an hour too late
for the proper attack of the enemy, his lordship sent orders for
Stixon's boy to take a good horse and ride to Pangbourne for a
highly respectable lawyer.  There was no time to fetch Mr. Spines,
you see, miss, the proper solicitor, who lives in London.  The
gentleman from Pangbourne was here by eight o'clock; and then and
there his lordship made his will, to supersede all other wills.  He
put it more clearly, the lawyer said, than he himself could have
put it, but not, of course, in such legal words, but doubtless far
more beautiful.  Nobody in the house was forgotten; and the rule of
law being, it seems, that those with best cause to remember must
not witness, two of the tenants were sent for, and wrote down their
names legitimate.  And then his lordship lay back and smiled, and
said, 'I shall have no more pain.'

"All that night and three days more he slept as sound as a little
child, to make up for so many years.  We called two doctors in; but
they only whispered and looked dismal, and told us to have hot
water ready at any hour of the day or night.  Nobody loved him as I
did, miss, from seeing so much of his troubles and miraculous way
of bearing them; and I sat by the hour and hour, and watched him,
trusting no paid nurses.

"It must have been eight o'clock on Wednesday morning--what is to-
day?  Oh, Friday--then Thursday morning it must have been, when the
clouds opened up in the east, and the light of the sun was on the
window-sill, not glaring or staring, but playing about, with
patterns of leaves between it; and I went to screen it from his
poor white face; but he opened his eyes, as if he had been half
awake, half dreaming, and he tried to lift one of his thin, thin
hands to tell me not to do it.  So I let the curtain stay as it
was, and crept back, and asked, very softly, 'Will your lordship
have some breakfast?'

"He did not seem to comprehend me, but only watched the window; and
if ever a blessed face there was, looking toward heaven's glory,
his lordship had it, so that I could scarcely keep from sobbing.
For I never had seen any living body die, but knew that it must be
so.  He heard me catching my breath, perhaps, or at any rate he
looked at me; and the poor angel knew that I was a woman; and being
full of high respect, as he always was for females--in spite of the
way they had served him--it became apparent to his mind that the
pearl button of his neck was open, as ordered by the doctors.  And
he tried to lift his hand to do it; and then he tried to turn away,
but could not manage either.  Poor dear! the only movement he could
make was to a better world.

"Then I drew the sheet across his chest, and he gave me a little
smile of thanks, and perhaps he knew whose hand it was.  But the
look of his kind soft eyes was flickering--not steady, I mean,
miss--but glancing and stopping and going astray, as drops of rain
do on the window-glass.  But I could not endure to examine him
much; at such a holy time I felt that to watch death was unholy.

"Perhaps I ought to have rung the bell for others to be present.
But his lordship was always shy, you know, miss; and with none of
his kindred left, and no wife to say 'good-by' to him, right or
wrong I resolved alone to see him depart to his everlasting rest.
And people may talk about hirelings, but I think nobody loved him
as I did."

Here Mrs. Price broke fairly down, and I could not help admiring
her.  To a faithful servant's humility and duty she had added a
woman's pure attachment to one more gifted than herself, and ruined
for life by her own sex.  But she fell away frightened and ashamed
beneath my look, as if I had caught her in sacrilege.

"Well, miss, we all must come and go," she began again, rather
clumsily; "and, good and great as he was, his lordship has left few
to mourn for him.  Only the birds and beasts and animals that he
was so good to; they will miss him, if men don't.  There came one
of his favorite pigeons, white as snow all over, and sat on the
sill of the window, and cooed, and arched up its neck for his
fingers.  And he tried to put his fingers out, but they were ice
already.  Whether that or something else brought home his thoughts,
who knows, miss? but he seemed to mix the pigeon up with some of
his own experience.

"'Say that I have forgiven her, if ever she did harm to me,' he
whispered, without moving lips.  'Times and times, when I was
young, I was not always steady;' and then he seemed to wander in
his mind among old places; and he would have laughed at something
if his voice had been sufficient.

"'Bitter grief and pain shall never come again,' he seemed to
breathe, with a calm, soft smile, like a child with its rhyme about
the rain when the sun breaks out; and sure enough, the sun upon the
quilt above his heart was shining, as if there could be no more
clouds.  Then he whispered a few short words to the Lord, more in
the way of thanks than prayer, and his eyes seemed to close of
their own accord, or with some good spirit soothing them.  And when
or how his sleep passed from this world into the other there was
scarcely the flutter of a nerve to show.  There he lies, like an
image of happiness.  Will you come and see him?"

I followed her to the bedroom, and am very glad that I did so; for
it showed me the bliss of a good man's rest, and took away my fear
of death.



CHAPTER LI

LIFE SINISTER


When business and the little cares of earthly life awoke again,
every one told me (to my great surprise and no small terror at
first, but soon to increasing acquiescence) that I was now the
mistress of the fair estates of Castlewood, and, the male line
being extinct, might claim the barony, if so pleased me; for that,
upon default of male heirs, descended by the spindle.  And as to
the property, with or without any will of the late Lord Castlewood,
the greater part would descend to me under unbarred settlement,
which he was not known to have meddled with.  On the contrary, he
confirmed by his last will the settlement--which they told me was
quite needless--and left me all that he had to leave, except about
a thousand pounds distributed in legacies.  A private letter to me
was sealed up with his will, which, of course, it would not behoove
me to make public.  But thus much--since our family history is,
alas! so notorious--in duty to him I should declare.  He begged me,
if his poor lost wife--of whom he had never spoken to me--should
re-appear and need it, to pay her a certain yearly sum, which I
thought a great deal too much for her, but resolved to obey him
exactly.

Neither the will nor the letter contained any reference to my
grandfather, or the possibility of an adverse claim.  I could not,
however, be quit of deep uneasiness and anxiety, but stanchly
determined that every acre should vanish in folds of "the long
robe" rather than pass to a crafty villain who had robbed me of all
my kindred.  My hatred of that man deepened vastly, as he became
less abstract, while my terror decreased in proportion.  I began to
think that, instead of being the reckless fiend I had taken him
for, he was only a low, plotting, cold-blooded rogue, without even
courage to save him.  By this time he must have heard all about me,
my pursuit of him, and my presence here--then why not come and
shoot me, just as he shot my grandfather?

The idea of this was unwelcome; still, I felt no sort of gratitude,
but rather a lofty contempt toward him for not having spirit to try
it.  In Shoxford church-yard he had expressed (if Sexton Rigg was
not then deceived) an unholy wish to have me there, at the feet of
my brothers and sisters.  Also he had tried to get hold of me--
doubtless with a view to my quietude--when I was too young to
defend myself, and left at haphazard in a lawless land.  What was
the reason, if his mind was still the same, for ceasing to follow
me now?  Was I to be treated with contempt as one who had tried her
best and could do nothing, as a feeble creature whose movements
were not even worth inquiry?  Anger at such an idea began to
supersede fear, as my spirits returned.

Meanwhile Major Hockin was making no sign as to what had befallen
him in Paris, or what Cosmopolitan Jack was about.  But, strangely
enough, he had sent me a letter from Bruntsea instead of Paris, and
addressed in grand style to no less a person than "The right
honorable Baroness Castlewood"--a title which I had resolved, for
the present, neither to claim nor acknowledge.  In that letter the
Major mingled a pennyweight of condolence with more congratulation
than the post could carry for the largest stamp yet invented.  His
habit of mind was to magnify things; and he magnified my small
grandeur, and seemed to think nothing else worthy of mention.

Through love of the good kind cousin I had lost, even more than
through common and comely respect toward the late head of the
family, I felt it impossible to proceed, for the present, with any
inquiries, but left the next move to the other side.  And the other
side made it, in a manner such as I never even dreamed of.

About three weeks after I became, in that sad way, the mistress,
escaping one day from lawyers and agents, who held me in dreary
interview, with long computations of this and of that, and
formalities almost endless, I went, for a breath of good earnest
fresh air, beyond precinct of garden or shrubbery.  To me these
seemed in mild weather to temper and humanize the wind too
strictly, and take the wild spirit out of it; and now, for the turn
of the moment, no wind could be too rough to tumble in.  After long
months of hard trouble, and worry, and fear, and sad shame, and
deep sorrow, the natural spring of clear youth into air and freedom
set me upward.  For the nonce there was nothing upon my selfish
self to keep it downward; troubles were bubbles, and grief a low
thief, and reason almost treason.  I drank the fine fountain of air
unsullied, and the golden light stamped with the royalty of sun.

Hilarious moments are but short, and soon cold sense comes back
again.  Already I began to feel ashamed of young life's selfish
outburst, and the vehement spring of mere bodily health.  On this
account I sat down sadly in a little cove of hill, whereto the soft
breeze from the river came up, with a tone of wavelets, and a
sprightly water-gleam.  And here, in fern and yellow grass and
tufted bights of bottom growth, the wind made entry for the sun,
and they played with one another.

Besting here, and thinking, with my face between my hands, I
wondered what would be the end.  Nothing seemed secure or certain,
nothing even steady or amenable to foresight.  Even guess-work or
the wider cast of dreams was always wrong.  To-day the hills and
valleys, and the glorious woods of wreathen gold, bright garnet,
and deep amethyst, even that blue river yet unvexed by autumn's
turbulence, and bordered with green pasture of a thousand sheep and
cattle--to-day they all were mine (so far as mortal can hold
ownership)--to-morrow, not a stick, or twig, or blade of grass, or
fallen leaf, but might call me a trespasser.  To see them while
they still were mine, and to regard them humbly, I rose and took my
black hat off--a black hat trimmed with mourning gray.  Then
turning round, I met a gaze, the wildest, darkest, and most awful
ever fixed on human face.

"Who are you?  What do you want here?" I faltered forth, while
shrinking back for flight, yet dreading or unable to withdraw my
gaze from his.  The hollow ground barred all escape; my own land
was a pit for me, and I must face this horror out.  Here, afar from
house or refuge, hand of help, or eye of witness, front to front I
must encounter this atrocious murderer.

For moments, which were ages to me, he stood there without a word;
and daring not to take my eyes from his, lest he should leap at me,
I had no power (except of instinct), and could form no thought of
him, for mortal fear fell over me.  If he would only speak, would
only move his lips, or any thing!

"The Baroness is not brave," he said at last, as if reproachfully;
"but she need have no fear now of me.  Does her ladyship happen to
know who I am?"

"The man who murdered my grandfather."

"Yes, if you put a false color on events.  The man who punished a
miscreant, according to the truer light.  But I am not here to
argue points.  I intend to propose a bargain.  Once for all, I will
not harm you.  Try to listen calmly.  Your father behaved like a
man to me, and I will be no worse to you.  The state of the law in
this country is such that I am forced to carry fire-arms.  Will it
conduce to your peace of mind if I place myself at your mercy?"

I tried to answer; but my heart was beating so that no voice came,
only a flutter in my trembling throat.  Wrath with myself for want
of courage wrestled in vain with pale, abject fear.  The hand which
offered me the pistol seemed to my dazed eyes crimson still with
the blood of my grandfather.

"You will not take it?  Very well; it lies here at your service.
If your father's daughter likes to shoot me, from one point of view
it will be just; and but for one reason, I care not.  Don't look at
me with pity, if you please.  For what I have done I feel no
remorse, no shadow of repentance.  It was the best action of my
life.  But time will fail, unless you call upon your courage
speedily.  None of your family lack that; and I know that you
possess it.  Call your spirit up, my dear."

"Oh, please not to call me that!  How dare you call me that?"

"That is right.  I did it on purpose.  And yet I am your uncle.
Not by the laws of men, but by the laws of God--if there are such
things.  Now, have you the strength to hear me?"

"Yes; I am quite recovered now.  I can follow every word you say.
But--but I must sit down again."

"Certainly.  Sit there, and I will stand.  I will not touch or come
nearer to you than a story such as mine requires.  You know your
own side of it; now hear mine.

"More than fifty years ago there was a brave young nobleman,
handsome, rich, accomplished, strong, not given to drink or
gambling, or any fashionable vices.  His faults were few, and
chiefly three--he had a headstrong will, loved money, and possessed
no heart at all.  With chances in his favor, this man might have
done as most men do who have such gifts from fortune.  But he
happened to meet with a maiden far beneath him in this noble world,
and he set his affections--such as they were--upon that poor young
damsel.

"This was Winifred Hoyle, the daughter of Thomas Hoyle, a farmer,
in a lonely part of Hampshire, and among the moors of Rambledon.
The nobleman lost his way, while fishing, and being thirsty, went
to ask for milk.  What matter how it came about?  He managed to win
her heart before she heard of his rank and title.  He persuaded her
even to come and meet him in the valley far from her father's
house, where he was wont to angle; and there, on a lonely wooden
bridge across a little river, he knelt down (as men used to do) and
pledged his solemn truth to her.  His solemn lie--his solemn lie!

"Such love as his could not overleap the bars of rank or the pale
of wealth--are you listening to me carefully?--or, at any rate, not
both of them.  If the poor farmer could only have given his
Winifred 50,000 pounds, the peer would have dropped his pride,
perhaps, so far as to be honest.  But farmers in that land are
poor, and Mr. Hoyle could give his only child his blessing only.
And this he did in London, where his simple mind was all abroad,
and he knew not church from chapel.  He took his daughter for the
wife of a lord, and so she took herself, poor thing! when she was
but his concubine.  In 1809 such tricks were easily played by
villains upon young girls so simple.

"But he gave her attestation and certificate under his own hand;
and her poor father signed it, and saw it secured in a costly case,
and then went home as proud as need be for the father of a peer,
but sworn to keep it three years secret, till the king should give
consent.  Such foul lies it was the pride of a lord to tell to a
farmer.

"You do not exclaim--of course you do not.  The instincts of your
race are in you, because you are legitimate.  Those of the robbed
side are in me, because I am of the robbed.  I am your father's
elder brother.  Which is the worse, you proud young womam, the
dastard or the bastard?"

"You have wrongs, most bitter wrongs," I answered, meeting fierce
eyes mildly; "but you should remember that I am guiltless of those
wrongs, and so was my father.  And I think that if you talk of
birth so, you must know that gentlemen speak quietly to ladies."

"What concern is that of mine?  A gentleman is some one's son.  I
am the son of nobody.  But to you I will speak quietly, for the
sake of your poor father.  And you must listen quietly.  I am not
famous for sweet temper.  Well, this great lord took his toy to
Paris, where he had her at his mercy.  She could not speak a word
of French; she did not know a single soul.  In vain she prayed him
to take her to his English home; or, if not that, to restore her to
her father.  Not to be too long about it--any more than he was--a
few months were enough for him.  He found fault with her manners,
with her speech, her dress, her every thing--all which he had
right, perhaps, to do, but should have used it earlier.  And she,
although not born to the noble privilege of weariness, had been an
old man's darling, and could not put up with harshness.  From words
they came to worse, until he struck her, told her of her shame, or
rather his own infamy, and left her among strangers, helpless,
penniless, and brokenhearted, to endure the consequence.

"There and thus I saw the light beneath most noble auspices.  But I
need not go on with all that.  As long as human rules remain, this
happy tale will always be repeated with immense applause.  My
mother's love was turned to bitter hatred of his lordship, and,
when her father died from grief, to eager thirst for vengeance.
And for this purpose I was born.

"You see that--for a bastard--I have been fairly educated; but not
a farthing did his lordship ever pay for that, or even to support
his casual.  My grandfather Hoyle left his little all to his
daughter Winifred; and upon that, and my mother's toil and mine, we
have kept alive.  Losing sight of my mother gladly--for she was
full of pride, and hoped no more to trouble him, after getting her
father's property--he married again, or rather he married for the
first time without perjury, which enables the man to escape from
it.  She was of his own rank--as you know--the daughter of an earl,
and not of a farmer.  It would not have been safe to mock her,
would it?  And there was no temptation.

"The history of my mother and myself does not concern you.  Such
people are of no account until they grow dangerous to the great.
We lived in cheap places and wandered about, caring for no one, and
cared for by the same.  Mrs. Hoyle and Thomas Hoyle we called
ourselves when we wanted names; and I did not even know the story
of our wrongs till the heat and fury of youth were past.  Both for
her own sake and mine my mother concealed it from me.  Pride and
habit, perhaps, had dulled her just desire for vengeance; and,
knowing what I was, she feared--the thing which has befallen me.
But when I was close upon thirty years old, and my mother eight-
and-forty--for she was betrayed in her teens--a sudden illness
seized her.  Believing her death to be near, she told me, as calmly
as possible, every thing, with all those large, quiet views of the
past, which at such a time seem the regular thing, but make the
wrong tenfold blacker.  She did not die; if she had, it might have
been better both for her and me, and many other people.  Are you
tired of my tale?  Or do you want to hear the rest?"

"You can not be asking me in earnest," I replied, while I watched
his wild eyes carefully.  "Tell me the rest, if you are not
afraid."

"Afraid, indeed!  Then, for want of that proper tendance and
comfort which a few pounds would have brought her, although she
survived, she survived as a wreck, the mere relic and ruin of her
poor unhappy self.  I sank my pride for her sake, and even deigned
to write to him, in rank and wealth so far above me, in every thing
else such a clot below my heel.  He did the most arrogant thing a
snob can do--he never answered my letter.

"I scraped together a little money, and made my way to England, and
came to that house--which you now call yours--and bearded that
noble nobleman--that father to be so proud of!  He was getting on
now in years, and growing, perhaps, a little nervous, and my first
appearance scared him.  He got no obeisance from me, you may be
certain, but still I did not revile him.  I told him of my mother's
state of mind, and the great care she required, and demanded that,
in common justice, he, having brought her to this, should help her.
But nothing would he promise, not a sixpence even, in the way of
regular allowance.  Any thing of that sort could only be arranged
by means of his solicitors.  He had so expensive a son, with a very
large and growing family, that he could not be pledged to any
yearly sum.  But if I would take a draft for 100 pounds, and sign
an acquittance in full of all claims, I might have it, upon proving
my identity.

"What identity had I to prove?  He had taken good care of that.  I
turned my back on him and left the house, without even asking for
his curse, though as precious as a good man's blessing.

"It was a wild and windy night, but with a bright moon rising, and
going across this park--or whatever it is called--I met my brother.
At a crest of the road we met face to face, with the moon across
our foreheads.  We had never met till now, nor even heard of one
another; at least he had never heard of me.  He started back as if
at his own ghost; but I had nothing to be startled at, in this
world or the other.

"I made his acquaintance, with deference, of course, and we got on
very well together.  At one time it seemed good luck for him to
have illegitimate kindred; for I saved his life when he was tangled
in the weeds of this river while bathing.  You owe me no thanks.  I
thought twice about it, and if the name would have ended with him,
I would never have used my basket-knife.  By trade I am a basket-
maker, like many another 'love-child.'

"However, he was grateful, if ever any body was, for I ran some
risk in doing it; and he always did his very best for me, and
encouraged me to visit him.  Not at his home--of course that would
never do--but when he was with his regiment.  Short of money as he
always was, through his father's nature and his own, which in some
points were the very opposite, he was even desirous to give me some
of that; but I never took a farthing from him.  If I had it at all,
I would have it from the proper one.  And from him I resolved to
have it.

"How terrified you look!  I am coming to it now.  Are you sure that
you can bear it?  It is nothing very harrowing; but still, young
ladies--"

"I feel a little faint," I could not help saying; "but that is
nothing.  I must hear the whole of it.  Please to go on without
minding me."

"For my own sake I will not, as well as for yours.  I can not have
you fainting, and bringing people here.  Go to the house and take
food, and recover your strength, and then come here again.  I
promise to be here, and your father's daughter will not take
advantage of my kindness."

Though his eyes were fierce (instead of being sad) and full of
strange tempestuous light, they bore some likeness to my father's,
and asserted power over me.  Reluctant as I was, I obeyed this man,
and left him there, and went slowly to the house, walking as if in
a troubled dream.



CHAPTER LII

FOR LIFE, DEATH


Upon my return, I saw nothing for a time but fans and feathers of
browning fern, dark shags of ling, and podded spurs of broom and
furze, and wisps of grass.  With great relief (of which I felt
ashamed while even breathing it), I thought that the man was afraid
to tell the rest of his story, and had fled; but ere my cowardice
had much time for self-congratulation a tall figure rose from the
ground, and fear compelled me into courage.  For throughout this
long interview more and more I felt an extremely unpleasant
conviction.  That stranger might not be a downright madman, nor
even what is called a lunatic; but still it was clear that upon
certain points--the laws of this country, for instance, and the
value of rank and station--his opinions were so outrageous that his
reason must be affected.  And, even without such proofs as these,
his eyes and his manner were quite enough.  Therefore I had need of
no small caution, not only concerning my words and gestures, but as
to my looks and even thoughts, for he seemed to divine these last
as quickly as they flashed across me.  I never had learned to
conceal my thoughts, and this first lesson was an awkward one.

"I hope you are better," he said, as kindly as it was possible for
him to speak.  "Now have no fear of me, once more I tell you.  I
will not sham any admiration, affection, or any thing of that kind;
but as for harming you--why, your father was almost the only kind
heart I ever met!"

"Then why did you send a most vile man to fetch me, when my father
was dead in the desert?"

"I never did any thing of the sort.  It was done in my name, but
not by me; I never even heard of it until long after, and I have a
score to settle with the man who did it."

"But Mr. Goad told me himself that you came and said you were the
true Lord Castlewood, and ordered him at once to America.  I never
saw truth more plainly stamped on a new situation--the face of a
rogue--than I saw it then on the face of Mr. Goad."

"You are quite right; he spoke the truth--to the utmost of his
knowledge.  I never saw Goad, and he never saw me.  I never even
dreamed of pretending to the title.  I was personated by a mean,
low friend of Sir Montague Hockin; base-born as I am, I would never
stoop to such a trick.  You will find out the meaning of that by-
and-by.  I have taken the law into my own hands--it is the only way
to work such laws--I have committed what is called a crime.  But,
compared with Sir Montague Hockin, I am whiter than yonder
shearling on his way to the river for his evening drink."

I gazed at his face, and could well believe it.  The setting sun
shone upon his chin and forehead--good, resolute, well-marked
features; his nose and mouth were keen and clear, his cheeks curt
and pale (though they would have been better for being a trifle
cleaner).  There was nothing suggestive of falsehood or fraud, and
but for the wildness of the eyes and flashes of cold ferocity, it
might have been called a handsome face.

"Very well," he began again, with one of those jerks which had
frightened me, "your father was kind to me, very kind indeed; but
he knew the old lord too well to attempt to interpose on my behalf.
On the other hand, he gave no warning of my manifest resolve;
perhaps he thought it a woman's threat, and me no better than a
woman!  And partly for his sake, no doubt, though mainly for my
mother's, I made the short work which I made; for he was horribly
straitened--and in his free, light way he told me so--by his hard
curmudgeon of a father.

"To that man, hopeless as he was, I gave fair grace, however, and
plenty of openings for repentance.  None of them would he embrace,
and he thought scorn of my lenity.  And I might have gone on with
such weakness longer, if I had not heard that his coach-and-four
was ordered for the Moonstock Inn.

"That he should dare thus to pollute the spot where he had so
forsworn himself!  I resolved that there he should pay justice,
either with his life or death.  And I went to your father's place
to tell him to prepare for disturbances; but he was gone to see his
wife, and I simply borrowed a pistol.

"Now you need not be at all afraid nor shrink away from me like
that.  I was bound upon stricter justice than any judge that sets
forth on circuit; and I meant to give, and did give, what no judge
affords to the guilty--the chance of leading a better life.  I had
brought my mother to England, and she was in a poor place in
London; her mind was failing more and more, and reverting to her
love-time, the one short happiness of her life.  'If I could but
see him, if I could but see him, and show him his tall and clever
son, he would forgive me all my sin in thinking ever to be his
wife.  Oh, Thomas!  I was too young to know it.  If I could but see
him once, just once!'

"How all this drove me no tongue can tell.  But I never let her
know it; I only said, 'Mother, he shall come and see you if he ever
sees any body more!'  And she trusted me and was satisfied.  She
only said, 'Take my picture, Thomas, to remind him of the happy
time, and his pledge to me inside of it.'  And she gave me what she
had kept for years in a bag of chamois leather, the case of which I
spoke before, which even in our hardest times she would never send
to the pawn-shop.

"The rest is simple enough.  I swore by the God, or the Devil, who
made me, that this black-hearted man should yield either his
arrogance or his life.  I followed him to the Moon valley, and fate
ordained that I should meet him where he forswore himself to my
mother; on that very plank where he had breathed his deadly lies he
breathed his last.  Would you like to hear all about it?"

For answer I only bowed my head.  His calm, methodical way of
telling his tale, like a common adventure with a dog, was more
shocking than any fury.

"Then it was this.  I watched him from the Moonstock Inn to a house
in the village, where he dined with company; and I did not even
know that it was the house of his son, your father--so great a gulf
is fixed between the legitimate and the bastard!  He had crossed
the wooden bridge in going, and was sure to cross it in coming
back.  How he could tread those planks without contrition and
horror--but never mind.  I resolved to bring him to a quiet parley
there, and I waited in the valley.

"The night was soft, and dark in patches where the land or wood
closed in; and the stream was brown and threw no light, though the
moon was on the uplands.  Time and place alike were fit for our
little explanation.  The path wound down the meadow toward me, and
I knew that he must come.  My firm intention was to spare him, if
he gave me a chance of it; but he never had the manners to do that.

"Here I waited, with the cold leaves fluttering around me, until I
heard a firm, slow step coming down the narrow path.  Then a figure
appeared in a stripe of moonlight, and stopped, and rested on a
staff.  Perhaps his lordship's mind went back some five-and-thirty
years, to times when he told pretty stories here; and perhaps he
laughed to himself to think how well he had got out of it.
Whatever his meditations were, I let him have them out, and waited.

"If he had even sighed, I might have felt more kindness toward him;
but he only gave something between a cough and a grunt, and I
clearly heard him say, 'Gout to-morrow morning! what the devil did
I drink port-wine for!'  He struck the ground with his stick and
came onward, thinking far more of his feet than heart.

"Then, as he planted one foot gingerly on the timber and stayed
himself, I leaped along the bridge and met him, and without a word
looked at him.  The moon was topping the crest of the hills and
threw my shadow upon him, the last that ever fell upon his body to
its knowledge.

"'Fellow, out of the way!' he cried, with a most commanding voice
and air, though only too well he knew me; and my wrath against him
began to rise.

"'You pass not here, and you never make another live step on this
earth,' I said, as calmly as now I speak, 'unless you obey my
orders.'

"He saw his peril, but he had courage--perhaps his only virtue.
'Fool! whoever you are,' he shouted, that his voice might fetch him
help; 'none of these moon-struck ways with me!  If you want to rob
me, try it!'

"'You know too well who I am,' I answered, as he made to push me
back.  'Lord Castlewood, here you have the choice--to lick the
dust, or be dust!  Here you forswore yourself; here you pay for
perjury.  On this plank you knelt to poor Winifred Hoyle, whom you
ruined and cast by; and now on this plank you shall kneel to her
son and swear to obey him--or else you die!'

"In spite of all his pride, he trembled as if I had been Death
himself, instead of his own dear eldest son.

"'What do you want!'  As he asked, he laid one hand on the rickety
rail and shook it, and the dark old tree behind him shook.  'How
much will satisfy you?'

"'Miser, none of your money for us! it is too late for your half
crowns!  We must have a little of what you have grudged--having
none to spare--your honor.  My demands are simple, and only two.
My mother is fool enough to yearn for one more sight of your false
face; you will come with me and see her.'

"'And if I yield to that, what next?'

"'The next thing is a trifle to a nobleman like you.  Here I have,
in this blue trinket (false gems and false gold, of course), your
solemn signature to a lie.  At the foot of that you will have the
truth to write, "I am a perjured liar!" and proudly sign it
"Castlewood," in the presence of two witnesses.  This can not hurt
your feelings much, and it need not be expensive.'

"Fury flashed in his bright old eyes, but he strove to check its
outbreak.  The gleaning of life, after threescore years, was
better, in such lordly fields, than the whole of the harvest we
got.  He knew that I had him all to myself, to indulge my filial
affection.

"'You have been misled; you have never heard the truth; you have
only heard your mother's story.  Allow me to go back and to sit in
a dry place; I am tired, and no longer young; you are bound to hear
my tale as well.  I passed a dry stump just now; I will go back:
there is no fear of interruption.'  My lord was talking against
time.

"'From this bridge you do not budge until you have gone on your
knees and sworn what I shall dictate to you; this time it shall be
no perjury.  Here I hold your cursed pledge--'

"He struck at me, or at the locket--no matter which--but it flew
away.  My right arm was crippled by his heavy stick; but I am left-
handed, as a bastard should be.  From my left hand he took his
death, and I threw the pistol after him: such love had he earned
from his love-child!"

Thomas Castlewood, or Hoyle, or whatever else his name was, here
broke off from his miserable words, and, forgetting all about my
presence, set his gloomy eyes on the ground.  Lightly he might try
to speak, but there was no lightness in his mind, and no spark of
light in his poor dead soul.  Being so young, and unacquainted with
the turns of life-worn mind, I was afraid to say a word except to
myself, and to myself I only said, "The man is mad, poor fellow;
and no wonder!"

The sun was setting, not upon the vast Pacific from desert heights,
but over the quiet hills and through the soft valleys of tame
England; and, different as the whole scene was, a certain other sad
and fearful sunset lay before me: the fall of night upon my dying
father and his helpless child, the hour of anguish and despair!
Here at last was the cause of all laid horribly before me; and the
pity deeply moving me passed into cold abhorrence.  But the man was
lost in his own visions.

"So in your savage wrath," I said, "you killed your own father, and
in your fright left mine to bear the brunt of it."

He raised his dark eyes heavily, and his thoughts were far astray
from mine.  He did not know what I had said, though he knew that I
had spoken.  The labor of calling to mind and telling his treatment
of his father had worked upon him so much that he could not freely
shift attention.

"I came for something, something that can be only had from you," he
said, "and only since your cousin's death, and something most
important.  But will you believe me? it is wholly gone, gone from
mind and memory!"

"I am not surprised at that," I answered, looking at his large wan
face, and while I did so, losing half my horror in strange sadness.
"Whatever it is, I will do it for you; only let me know by post."

"I see what you mean--not to come any more.  You are right about
that, for certain.  But your father was good to me, and I loved
him, though I had no right to love any one.  My letter will show
that I wronged him never.  The weight of the world is off my mind
since I have told you every thing; you can send me to the gallows,
if you think fit, but leave it till my mother dies.  Good-by, poor
child.  I have spoiled your life, but only by chance consequence,
not in murder-birth--as I was born."

Before I could answer or call him back, if I even wished to do so,
he was far away, with his long, quiet stride; and, like his life,
his shadow fell, chilling, sombre, cast away.



CHAPTER LIII

BRUNTSEA DEFIANT


Thus at last--by no direct exertion of my own, but by turn after
turn of things to which I blindly gave my little help--the mystery
of my life was solved.  Many things yet remained to be fetched up
to focus and seen round; but the point of points was settled.

Of all concerned, my father alone stood blameless and heroic.  What
tears of shame and pride I shed, for ever having doubted him!--not
doubting his innocence of the crime itself, but his motives for
taking it upon him.  I had been mean enough to dream that my dear
father outraged justice to conceal his own base birth!

That ever such thought should have entered my mind may not make me
charitable to the wicked thoughts of the world at large, but, at
any rate, it ought to do so.  And the man in question, my own
father, who had starved himself to save me!  Better had I been the
most illegal child ever issued into this cold world, than dare to
think so of my father, and then find him the model of every thing.

To hide the perjury, avarice, and cowardice of his father, and to
appease the bitter wrong, he had even bowed to take the dark
suspicion on himself, until his wronged and half-sane brother (to
whom, moreover, he owed his life) should have time to fly from
England.  No doubt he blamed himself as much as he condemned the
wretched criminal, because he had left his father so long unwarned
and so unguarded, and had thoughtlessly used light words about him,
which fell not lightly on a stern, distempered mind.  Hence,
perhaps, the exclamation which had told against him so.

And then when he broke jail--which also told against him terribly--
to revisit his shattered home, it is likely enough that he meant
after that to declare the truth, and stand his trial as a man
should do.  But his wife, perhaps, in her poor weak state, could
not endure the thought of it, knowing how often jury is injury, and
seeing all the weight against him.  She naturally pledged him to
pursue his flight, "for her sake," until she should be better able
to endure his trial, and until he should have more than his own
pure word and character to show.  And probably if he had then been
tried, with so many things against him, and no production of that
poor brother, his tale would have seemed but a flimsy invention,
and "Guilty" would have been the verdict.  And they could not know
that, in such case, the guilty man would have come forward, as we
shall see that he meant to do.

When my father heard of his dear wife's death, and believed, no
doubt, that I was buried with the rest, the gloom of a broken and
fated man, like polar night, settled down on him.  What matter to
him about public opinion or any thing else in the world just now?
The sins of his father were on his head; let them rest there,
rather than be trumpeted by him.  He had nothing to care for; let
him wander about.  And so he did for several years, until I became
a treasure to him--for parental is not intrinsic value--and then,
for my sake, as now appeared, he betook us both to a large kind
land.

Revolving these things sadly, and a great many more which need not
be told, I thought it my duty to go as soon as possible to
Bruntsea, and tell my good and faithful friends what I was loath to
write about.  There, moreover, I could obtain what I wanted to
confirm me--the opinion of an upright, law-abiding, honorable man
about the course I proposed to take.  And there I might hear
something more as to a thing which had troubled me much in the
deepest of my own troubles--the melancholy plight of dear Uncle
Sam.  Wild, and absurd as it may appear to people of no gratitude,
my heart was set upon faring forth in search of the noble Sawyer,
if only it could be reconciled with my duty here in England.  That
such a proceeding would avail but little, seemed now, alas! too
manifest; but a plea of that kind generally means that we have no
mind to do a thing.

Be that as it will, I made what my dear Yankees--to use the Major's
impertinent phrase--call "straight tracks" for that ancient and
obsolete town, rejuvenized now by its Signor.  The cause of my good
friend's silence--not to use that affected word "reticence"--was
quite unknown to me, and disturbed my spirit with futile guesses.

Resolute, therefore, to pierce the bottom of every surviving
mystery, I made claim upon "Mr. Stixon, junior"--as "Stixon's boy"
had now vindicated his right to be called, up to supper-time--and
he with high chivalry responded.  Not yet was he wedded to Miss
Polly Hopkins, the daughter of the pickled-pork man; otherwise
would he or could he have made telegraphic blush at the word
"Bruntsea?"  And would he have been quite so eager to come?

Such things are trifling, compared to our own, which naturally fill
the universe.  I was bound to be a great lady now, and patronize
and regulate and drill all the doings of nature.  So I durst not
even ask, though desiring much to do so, how young Mr. Stixon was
getting on with his delightful Polly.  And his father, as soon as
he found me turned into the mistress, and "his lady" (as he would
have me called thenceforth, whether or no on my part), not another
word would he tell me of the household sentiments, politics, or
romances.  It would have been thought a thing beneath me to put any
nice little questions now, and I was obliged to take up the tone
which others used toward me.  But all the while I longed for
freedom, Uncle Sam, Suan Isco, and even Martin of the Mill.

Law business, however, and other hinderances, kept me from starting
at once for Bruntsea, impatient as I was to do so.  Indeed, it was
not until the morning of the last Saturday in November that I was
able to get away.  The weather had turned to much rain, I remember,
with two or three tempestuous nights, and the woods were almost
bare of leaves, and the Thames looked brown and violent.

In the fly from Newport to Bruntsea I heard great rollers
thundering heavily upon the steep bar of shingle, and such a lake
of water shone in the old bed of the river that I quite believed at
first that the Major had carried out his grand idea, and brought
the river back again.  But the flyman shook his head, and looked
very serious, and told me that he feared bad times were coming.
What I saw was the work of the Lord in heaven, and no man could
prevail against it.  He had always said, though no concern of his--
for he belonged to Newport--that even a British officer could not
fly in the face of the Almighty.  He himself had a brother on the
works, regular employed, and drawing good money, and proud enough
about it; and the times he had told him across a pint of ale--
howsomever, our place was to hope for the best; but the top of the
springs was not come yet, and a pilot out of Newport told him the
water was making uncommon strong; but he did hope the wind had nigh
blowed itself out; if not, they would have to look blessed sharp
tomorrow.  He had heard say that in time of Queen Elizabeth
sixscore of houses was washed clean away, and the river itself
knocked right into the sea; and a thing as had been once might just
come to pass again, though folk was all so clever now they thought
they wor above it.  But, for all that, their grandfathers' goggles
might fit them.  But here we was in Bruntsea town, and, bless his
old eyes--yes!  If I pleased to look along his whip, I might see
ancient pilot come, he did believe, to warn of them!

Following his guidance, I descried a stout old man, in a sailor's
dress, weather-proof hat, and long boots, standing on a low
seawall, and holding vehement converse with some Bruntsea boatmen
and fishermen who were sprawling on the stones as usual.

"Driver, you know him.  Take the lower road," I said, "and ask what
his opinion is."

"No need to ask him," the flyman answered; "old Banks would never
be here, miss, if he was of two opinions.  He hath come to fetch
his daughter out of harm, I doubt, the wife of that there Bishop
Jim, they call him--the chap with two nails to his thumb, you know.
Would you like to hear how they all take it, miss?"

With these words he turned to the right, and drove into Major
Hockin's "Sea Parade."  There we stopped to hear what was going on,
and it proved to be well worth our attention.  The old pilot
perhaps had exhausted reason, and now was beginning to give way to
wrath.  The afternoon was deepening fast, with heavy gray clouds
lowering, showing no definite edge, but streaked with hazy lines,
and spotted by some little murky blurs or blots, like tar pots,
carried slowly.

"Hath Noah's Ark ever told a lie?" the ancient pilot shouted,
pointing with one hand at these, and with a clinched fist at the
sea, whence came puffs of sullen air, and turned his gray locks
backward.  "Mackerel sky when the sun got up, mermaiden's eggs at
noon, and now afore sunset Noah's Arks!  Any of them breweth a gale
of wind, and the three of them bodes a tempest.  And the top of the
springs of the year to-morrow.  Are ye daft, or all gone upon the
spree, my men?  Your fathers would 'a knowed what the new moon
meant.  Is this all that cometh out of larning to read?"

"Have a pinch of 'bacco, old man," said one, "to help you off with
that stiff reel.  What consarn can he be of yourn?"

"Don't you be put out, mate," cried another.  "Never came sea as
could top that bar, and never will in our time.  Go and calk your
old leaky craft, Master Banks."

"We have rode out a good many gales without seeking prophet from
Newport--a place never heerd on when this old town was made."

"Come and wet your old whistle at the 'Hockin Arms,' Banks.  You
must want it, after that long pipe."

"'Hockin Arms,' indeed!" the pilot answered, turning away in a rage
from them.  "What Hockin Arms will there be this time to-morrow?
Hockin legs wanted, more likely, and Hockin wings.  And you poor
grinning ninnies, as ought to have four legs, ye'll be praying that
ye had them to-morrow.  However, ye've had warning, and ye can't
blame me.  The power of the Lord is in the air and sea.  Is this
the sort of stuff ye trust in?"

He set one foot against our Major's wall--an action scarcely honest
while it was so green--and, coming from a hale and very thickset
man, the contemptuous push sent a fathom of it outward.  Rattle,
rattle went the new patent concrete, starting up the lazy-pated
fellows down below.

"You'll try the walls of a jail," cried one.  "You go to Noah's
Ark," shouted another.  The rest bade him go to a place much worse;
but he buttoned his jacket in disdain, and marched away, without
spoiling the effect by any more weak words.

"Right you are," cried my flyman--"right you are, Master Banks.
Them lubbers will sing another song to-morrow.  Gee up, old hoss,
then!"

All this, and the ominous scowl of the sky and menacing roar of the
sea (already crowding with black rollers), disturbed me so that I
could say nothing, until, at the corner of the grand new hotel, we
met Major Hockin himself, attired in a workman's loose jacket, and
carrying a shovel.  He was covered with mud and dried flakes of
froth, and even his short white whiskers were incrusted with
sparkles of brine; but his face was ruddy and smiling, and his
manner as hearty as ever.

"You here, Erema!  Oh, I beg pardon--Baroness Castlewood, if you
please.  My dear, again I congratulate you."

"You have as little cause to do that as I fear I can find in your
case.  You have no news for me from America?  How sad!  But what a
poor plight you yourself are in!"

"Not a bit of it.  At first sight you might think so; and we
certainly have had a very busy time.  Send back the fly.  Leave
your bag at our hotel.  Porter, be quick with Lady Castlewood's
luggage.  One piece of luck befalls me--to receive so often this
beautiful hand.  What a lot of young fellows now would die of
envy--"

"I am glad that you still can talk nonsense," I said; "for I truly
was frightened at this great lake, and so many of your houses even
standing in the water."

"It will do them good.  It will settle the foundations and
crystallize the mortar.  They will look twice as well when they
come out again, and never have rats or black beetles.  We were
foolish enough to be frightened at first; and there may have been
danger a fortnight ago.  But since that tide we have worked day and
night, and every thing is now so stable that fear is simply
ridiculous.  On the whole, it has been a most excellent thing--
quite the making, in fact, of Bruntsea."

"Then Bruntsea must be made of water," I replied, gazing sadly at
the gulf which parted us from the Sea Parade, the Lyceum, and
Baths, the Bastion Promenade, and so on; beyond all which the
streaky turmoil and misty scud of the waves were seen.

"Made of beer, more likely," he retorted, with a laugh.  "If my
fellows worked like horses--which they did--they also drank like
fishes.  Their mouths were so dry with the pickle, they said.  But
the total abstainers were the worst, being out of practice with the
can.  However, let us make no complaints.  We ought to be truly
thankful; and I shall miss the exercise.  That is why you have
heard so little from me.  You see the position at a glance.  I have
never been to Paris at all, Erema.  I have not rubbed up my
parleywoo, with a blast from Mr. Bellows.  I was stopped by a
telegram about this job--acrior illum.  I had some Latin once,
quite enough for the House of Commons, but it all oozed out at my
elbows; and to ladies (by some superstition) it is rude--though
they treat us to bad French enough.  Never mind.  What I want to
say is this, that I have done nothing, but respected your sad
trouble; for you took a wild fancy to that poor bedridden, who
never did you a stroke of good except about Cosmopolitan Jack, and
whose removal has come at the very nick of time.  For what could
you have done for money, with the Yankees cutting each other's
throats, and your nugget quite sure to be annexed, or, at the very
best, squared up in greenbacks?"

"You ought not to speak so, Major Hockin.  If all your plans were
not under water, I should be quite put out with you.  My cousin was
not bedridden; neither was he at all incapable, as you have called
him once or twice.  He was an infinitely superior man to--to what
one generally sees; and when you have heard what I have to tell, in
his place you would have done just as he did.  And as for money,
and 'happy release'--as the people who never want it for themselves
express it--such words simply sicken me; at great times they are so
sordid."

"What is there in this world that is not sordid--to the young in
one sense, and to the old in another?"

Major Hockin so seldom spoke in this didactic way, and I was so
unable to make it out, that, having expected some tiff on his part
at my juvenile arrogance, I was just in the mould for a deep
impression from sudden stamp of philosophy.  I had nothing to say
in reply, and he went up in my opinion greatly.

He knew it; and he said, with touching kindness, "Erema, come and
see your dear aunt Mary.  She has had an attack of rheumatic gout
in her thimble-finger, and her maids have worried her out of her
life, and by far the most brilliant of her cocks (worth 20 pounds
they tell me) breathed his last on Sunday night, with gapes, or
croup, or something.  This is why you have not heard again from
her.  I have been in the trenches day and night, stoning out the
sea with his own stones, by a new form of concrete discovered by
myself.  And unless I am very much mistaken--in fact, I do not
hesitate to say--But such things are not in your line at all.  Let
us go up to the house.  Our job is done, and I think Master Neptune
may pound away in vain.  I have got a new range in the kitchen now,
partly of my own invention; you can roast, or bake, or steam, or
stew, or frizzle kabobs--all by turning a screw.  And not only
that, but you can keep things hot, piping hot, and ripening, as it
were, better than when they first were done.  Instead of any burned
iron taste, or scum on the gravy, or clottiness, they mellow by
waiting, and make their own sauce.  If I ever have time I shall
patent this invention; why, you may burn brick-dust in it, Bath-
brick, hearth-stone, or potsherds!  At any hour of the day or
night, while the sea is in this condition, I may want my dinner;
and there we have it.  We say grace immediately, and down we sit.
Let us take it by surprise, if it can be taken so.  Up through my
chief drive, instanter!  I think that I scarcely ever felt more
hungry.  The thought of that range always sets me off.  And one of
its countless beauties is the noble juicy fragrance."

Major Hockin certainly possessed the art--so meritorious in a host--
of making people hungry; and we mounted the hill with alacrity,
after passing his letter-box, which reminded me of the mysterious
lady.  He pointed to "Desolate Hole," as he called it, and said
that he believed she was there still, though she never came out now
to watch their house.  And a man of dark and repelling aspect had
been seen once or twice by his workmen, during the time of their
night relays, rapidly walking toward Desolate Hole.  How any one
could live in such a place, with the roar and the spray of the sea,
as it had been, at the very door, and through the windows, some
people might understand, but not the Major.

Good Mrs. Hockin received me with her usual warmth and kindness,
and scolded me for having failed to write more to her, as all
people seem to do when conscious of having neglected that duty
themselves.  Then she showed me her thimble-finger, which certainly
was a little swollen; and then she poured forth her gratitude for
her many blessings, as she always did after any little piece of
grumbling.  And I told her that if at her age I were only a quarter
as pleasant and sweet of temper, I should consider myself a
blessing to any man.

After dinner my host produced the locket, which he had kept for the
purpose of showing it to the artist's son in Paris, and which he
admired so intensely that I wished it were mine to bestow on him.
Then I told him that, through a thing wholly unexpected--the
confession of the criminal himself--no journey to Paris was needful
now.  I repeated that strange and gloomy tale, to the loud
accompaniment of a rising wind and roaring sea, while both my
friends listened intently.

"Now what can have led him so to come to you?" they asked; "and
what do you mean to do about it?"

"He came to me, no doubt, to propose some bargain, which could not
be made in my cousin's lifetime.  But the telling of his tale made
him feel so strange that he really could not remember what it was.
As to what I am to do, I must beg for your opinion; such a case is
beyond my decision."  Mrs. Hockin began to reply, but stopped,
looking dutifully at her lord.

"There is no doubt what you are bound to do, at least in one way,"
the Major said.  "You are a British subject, I suppose, and you
must obey the laws of the country.  A man has confessed to you a
murder--no matter whether it was committed twenty years ago or two
minutes; no matter whether it was a savage, cold-blooded,
premeditated crime, or whether there were things to palliate it.
Your course is the same; you must hand him over.  In fact, you
ought never to have let him go."

"How could I help it?" I pleaded, with surprise.  "It was
impossible for me to hold him."

"Then you should have shot him with his own pistol.  He offered it
to you.  You should have grasped it, pointed it at his heart, and
told him that he was a dead man if he stirred."

"Aunt Mary, would you have done that?" I asked.  "It is so easy to
talk of fine things!  But in the first place, I had no wish to stop
him; and in the next, I could not if I had."

"My dear," Mrs. Hockin replied, perceiving my distress at this view
of the subject, "I should have done exactly what you did.  If the
laws of this country ordain that women are to carry them out
against great strong men, who, after all, have been sadly injured,
why, it proves that women ought to make the laws, which to my mind
is simply ridiculous."



CHAPTER LIV

BRUNTSEA DEFEATED


Little sleep had I that night.  Such conflict was in my mind about
the proper thing to be done next, and such a war of the wind
outside, above and between the distant uproar of the long
tumultuous sea.  Of that sound much was intercepted by the dead
bulk of the cliff, but the wind swung fiercely over this, and
rattled through all shelter.  In the morning the storm was furious;
but the Major declared that his weather-glass had turned, which
proved that the gale was breaking.  The top of the tide would be at
one o'clock, and after church we should behold a sight he was
rather proud of--the impotent wrath of the wind and tide against
his patent concrete.

"My dear, I scarcely like such talk," Mrs. Hockin gently
interposed.  "To me it seems almost defiant of the power of the
Lord.  Remember what happened to poor Smeaton--at least I think his
name was Smeaton, or Stanley, was it?  But I dare say you know
best.  He defied the strength of the Lord, like the people at the
mouth of their tent, and he was swallowed up."

"Mary, my dear, get your prayer-book.  Rasper's fly is waiting for
us, and the parson has no manners.  When he drops off, I present to
the living; and I am not at all sure that I shall let George have
it.  He is fond of processions, and all that stuff.  The only
procession in the Church of England is that of the lord of the
manor to his pew.  I will be the master in my own church."

"Of course, dear, of course; so you ought to be.  It always was so
in my father's parish.  But you must not speak so of our poor
George.  He may be 'High-Church,' as they call it; but he knows
what is due to his family, and he has a large one coming."

We set off hastily for the church, through blasts of rain and
buffets of wind, which threatened to overturn the cab, and the
seaward window was white, as in a snowstorm, with pellets of froth,
and the drift of sea-scud.  I tried to look out, but the blur and
the dash obscured the sight of every thing.  And though in this
lower road we were partly sheltered by the pebble ridge, the driver
was several times obliged to pull his poor horse up and face the
wind, for fear of our being blown over.

That ancient church, with its red-tiled spire, stands well up in
the good old town, at the head of a street whose principal object
now certainly is to lead to it.  Three hundred years ago that
street had business of its own to think of, and was brave perhaps
with fine men and maids at the time of the Spanish Armada.  Its
only bravery now was the good old church, and some queer gables,
and a crypt (which was true to itself by being buried up to the
spandrels), and one or two corners where saints used to stand,
until they were pelted out of them, and where fisher-like men, in
the lodging season, stand selling fish caught at Billingsgate.  But
to Bruntsea itself the great glory of that street was rather of
hope than of memory.  Bailiff Hopkins had taken out three latticed
windows, and put in one grand one of plate-glass, with "finishing"
blinds all varnished.  And even on a Sunday morning Bruntsea wanted
to know what ever the bailiff was at behind them.  Some said that
he did all his pickling on a Sunday; and by putting up "spectacle
glass" he had challenged the oldest inhabitant to come and try his
focus.

Despite all the rattle and roar of the wind, we went on in church
as usual.  The vicar had a stout young curate from Durham, who
could outshout any tempest, with a good stone wall between them;
and the Bruntsea folk were of thicker constitution than to care an
old hat for the weather.  Whatever was "sent by the Lord" they took
with a grumble, but no excitement.  The clock in front of the
gallery told the time of the day as five minutes to twelve, when
the vicar, a pleasant old-fashioned man, pronounced his text, which
he always did thrice over to make us sure of it.  And then he
hitched up his old black gown, and directed his gaze at the lord of
the manor, to impress the whole church with authority.  Major
Hockin acknowledged in a proper manner this courtesy of the
minister by rubbing up his crest, and looking even more wide-awake
than usual; whereas Aunt Mary, whose kind heart longed to see her
own son in that pulpit, calmly settled back her shoulders, and
arranged her head and eyes so well as to seem at a distance in rapt
attention, while having a nice little dream of her own.  But
suddenly all was broken up.  The sexton (whose license as warden of
the church, and even whose duty it was to hear the sermon only
fitfully, from the tower arch, where he watched the boys, and
sniffed the bakehouse of his own dinner)--to the consternation of
every body, this faithful man ran up the nave, with his hands above
his head, and shouted,

"All Brownzee be awash, awash"--sounding it so as to rhyme with
"lash"--"the zea, the zea be all over us!"

The clergyman in the pulpit turned and looked through a window
behind him, while all the congregation rose.

"It is too true," the preacher cried; "the sea is in over the bank,
my friends.  Every man must rush to his own home.  The blessing of
the Lord be on you through His fearful visitation!"

He had no time to say more; and we thought it very brave of him to
say that, for his own house was in the lower village, and there he
had a wife and children sick.  In half a minute the church was
empty, and the street below it full of people, striving and
struggling against the blast, and breasting it at an incline like
swimmers, but beaten back ever and anon and hurled against one
another, with tattered umbrellas, hats gone, and bonnets hanging.
And among them, like gulls before the wind, blew dollops of spray
and chunks of froth, with every now and then a slate or pantile.

All this was so bad that scarcely any body found power to speak, or
think, or see.  The Major did his very best to lead us, but could
by no means manage it.  And I screamed into his soundest ear to
pull Aunt Mary into some dry house--for she could not face such
buffeting--and to let me fare for myself as I might.  So we left
Mrs. Hockin in the bailiff's house, though she wanted sadly to come
with us, and on we went to behold the worst.  And thus, by running
the byes of the wind, and craftily hugging the corners, we got to
the foot of the street at last, and then could go no further.

For here was the very sea itself, with furious billows panting.
Before us rolled and ran a fearful surf of crested whiteness, torn
by the screeching squalls, and tossed in clashing tufts and
pinnacles.  And into these came, sweeping over the shattered chine
of shingle, gigantic surges from the outer deep, towering as they
crossed the bar, and combing against the sky-line, then rushing
onward, and driving the huddle of the ponded waves before them.

The tide was yet rising, and at every blow the wreck and the havoc
grew worse and worse.  That long sweep of brick-work, the "Grand
Promenade," bowed and bulged, with wall and window knuckled in and
out, like wattles; the "Sea Parade" was a parade of sea; and a
bathing-machine wheels upward lay, like a wrecked Noah's Ark, on
the top of the "Saline-Silico-Calcareous Baths."

The Major stood by me, while all his constructions "went by the
board," as they say at sea; and verily every thing was at sea.  I
grieved for him so that it was not the spray alone that put salt
drops on my cheeks.  And I could not bear to turn and look at his
good old weather-beaten face.  But he was not the man to brood upon
his woes in silence.  He might have used nicer language, perhaps,
but his inner sense was manful.

"I don't care a damn," he shouted, so that all the women heard him.
"I can only say I am devilish glad that I never let one of those
houses."

There was a little band of seamen, under the shelter of a garden
wall, crouching, or sitting, or standing (or whatever may be the
attitude, acquired by much voyaging and experience of bad weather,
which can not be solved, as to centre of gravity, even by the man
who does it), and these men were so taken with the Major's
manifesto, clinched at once and clarified to them by strong, short
language, that they gave him a loud "hurrah," which flew on the
wings of the wind over house-tops.  So queer and sound is English
feeling that now Major Hockin became in truth what hitherto he was
in title only--the lord and master of Bruntsea.

"A boat! a boat!" he called out again.  "We know not who are
drowning.  The bank still breaks the waves; a stout boat surely
could live inside it."

"Yes, a boat could live well enough in this cockle, though never
among them breakers," old Barnes, the fisherman, answered, who used
to take us out for whiting; "but Lord bless your honor, all the
boats are thumped to pieces, except yonner one, and who can get at
her?"

Before restoring his hands to their proper dwelling-place--his
pockets--he jerked his thumb toward a long white boat, which we had
not seen through the blinding scud.  Bereft of its brethren, or
sisters--for all fluctuating things are feminine--that boat
survived, in virtue of standing a few feet higher than the rest.
But even so, and mounted on the last hump of the pebble ridge, it
was rolling and reeling with stress of the wind and the wash of
wild water under it.

"How nobly our Lyceum stands!" the Major shouted, for any thing
less than a shout was dumb.  "This is the time to try institutions.
I am proud of my foundations."

In answer to his words appeared a huge brown surge, a mountain
ridge, seething backward at the crest with the spread and weight of
onset.  This great wave smote all other waves away, or else
embodied them, and gathered its height against the poor worn pebble
bank, and descended.  A roar distinct above the universal roar
proclaimed it; a crash of conflict shook the earth, and the
shattered bank was swallowed in a world of leaping whiteness.  When
this wild mass dashed onward into the swelling flood before us,
there was no sign of Lyceum left, but stubs of foundation, and a
mangled roof rolling over and over, like a hen-coop.

"Well, that beats every thing I ever saw," exclaimed the gallant
Major.  "What noble timber!  What mortise-work!  No London scamping
there, my lads.  But what comes here?  Why, the very thing we
wanted!  Barnes, look alive, my man.  Run to your house, and get a
pair of oars and a bucket."

It was the boat, the last surviving boat of all that hailed from
Bruntsea.  That monstrous billow had tossed it up like a school-
boy's kite, and dropped it whole, with an upright keel, in the
inland sea, though nearly half full of water.  Driven on by wind
and wave, it labored heavily toward us; and more than once it
seemed certain to sink as it broached to and shipped seas again.
But half a dozen bold fishermen rushed with a rope into the short
angry surf--to which the polled shingle bank still acted as a
powerful breakwater, else all Bruntsea had collapsed--and they
hauled up the boat with a hearty cheer, and ran her up straight
with, "Yo--heave--oh!" and turned her on her side to drain, and
then launched her again, with a bucket and a man to bail out the
rest of the water, and a pair of heavy oars brought down by Barnes,
and nobody knows what other things.

"Naught to steer with.  Rudder gone!" cried one of the men, as the
furious gale drove the boat, athwart the street, back again.

"Wants another oar," said Barnes.  "What a fool I were to bring
only two!"

"Here you are!" shouted Major Hockin.  "One of you help me to pull
up this pole."

Through a shattered gate they waded into a little garden, which had
been the pride of the season at Bruntsea; and there from the ground
they tore up a pole, with a board at the top nailed across it, and
the following not rare legend:  "Lodgings to let.  Inquire within.
First floor front, and back parlors."

"Fust-rate thing to steer with!  Would never have believed you had
the sense!"  So shouted Barnes--a rough man, roughened by the
stress of storm and fright.  "Get into starn-sheets if so liketh.
Ye know, ye may be useful."

"I defy you to push off without my sanction.  Useful, indeed!  I am
the captain of this boat.  All the ground under it is mine.  Did
you think, you set of salted radicals, that I meant to let you go
without me?  And all among my own houses!"

"Look sharp, governor, if you has the pluck, then.  Mind, we are
more like to be swamped than not."

As the boat swung about, Major Hockin jumped in, and so, on the
spur of the moment, did I.  We staggered all about with the heave
and roll, and both would have fallen on the planks, or out over, if
we had not tumbled, with opposite impetus, into the arms of each
other.  Then a great wave burst and soaked us both, and we fell
into sitting on a slippery seat.

Meanwhile two men were tugging at each oar, and Barnes himself
steering with the sign-board; and the head of the boat was kept
against the wind and the billows from our breakwater.  Some of
these seemed resolved (though shorn of depth and height in
crossing) to rush all over us and drown us in the washer-women's
drying ground.  By skill and presence of mind, our captain, Barnes,
foiled all their violence, till we got a little shelter from the
ruins of the "Young Men's Christian Institute."

"Hold all!" cried Barnes; "only keep her head up, while I look
about what there is to do."

The sight was a thing to remember; and being on the better side now
of the scud, because it was flying away from us, we could make out
a great deal more of the trouble which had befallen Bruntsea.  The
stormy fiord which had usurped the ancient track of the river was
about a furlong in width, and troughed with white waves vaulting
over.  And the sea rushed through at the bottom as well, through
scores of yards of pebbles, as it did in quiet weather even, when
the tide was brimming.  We in the tossing boat, with her head to
the inrush of the outer sea, were just like people sitting upon the
floats or rafts of a furious weir; and if any such surge had topped
the ridge as the one which flung our boat to us, there could be no
doubt that we must go down as badly as the Major's houses.
However, we hoped for the best, and gazed at the desolation inland.

Not only the Major's great plan, but all the lower line of old
Bruntsea, was knocked to pieces, and lost to knowledge in freaks of
wind-lashed waters.  Men and women were running about with favorite
bits of furniture, or feather-beds, or babies' cradles, or whatever
they had caught hold of.  The butt ends of the three old streets
that led down toward the sea-ground were dipped, as if playing
seesaw in the surf, and the storm made gangways of them and
lighthouses of the lamp-posts.  The old public-house at the corner
was down, and the waves leaping in at the post-office door, and
wrecking the globes of the chemist.

"Drift and dash, and roar and rush, and the devil let loose in the
thick of it.  My eyes are worn out with it.  Take the glass, Erema,
and tell us who is next to be washed away.  A new set of clothes-
props for Mrs. Mangles I paid for the very day I came back from
town."

With these words, the lord of the submarine manor (whose strength
of spirit amazed me) offered his pet binocular, which he never went
without upon his own domain.  And fisherman Barnes, as we rose and
fell, once more saved us from being "swamped" by his clever way of
paddling through a scallop in the stern, with the board about the
first floor front to let.

The seamen, just keeping way on the boat, sheltered their eyes with
their left hands, and fixed them on the tumultuous scene.

I also gazed through the double glass, which was a very clear one;
but none of us saw any human being at present in any peril.

"Old pilot was right, after all," said one; "but what a good job as
it come o' middle day, and best of all of a Sunday!"

"I have heered say," replied another, "that the like thing come to
pass nigh upon three hunder years agone.  How did you get your
things out, Jem Bishop?"

Jem, the only one of them whose house was in the havoc, regarded
with a sailor's calmness the entry of the sea through his bedroom
window, and was going to favor us with a narrative, when one of his
mates exclaimed,

"What do I see yonner, lads?  Away beyond town altogether.  Seemeth
to me like a fellow swimming.  Miss, will you lend me spy-glass?
Never seed a double-barreled one before.  Can use him with one eye
shut, I s'pose?"

"No good that way, Joe," cried Barnes, with a wink of superior
knowledge, for he often had used this binocular.  "Shut one eye for
one barrel--stands to reason, then, you shut both for two, my son."

"Stow that," said the quick-eyed sailor, as he brought the glass to
bear in a moment.  "It is a man in the water, lads, and swimming to
save the witch, I do believe."

"Bless me!" cried the Major; "how stupid of us!  I never thought
once of that poor woman.  She must be washed out long ago.  Pull
for your lives, my friends.  A guinea apiece if you save her."

"And another from me," I cried.  Whereupon the boat swept round,
and the tough ash bent, and we rushed into no small danger.  For
nearly half a mile had we to pass of raging and boisterous water,
almost as wild as the open sea itself at the breaches of the pebble
ridge.  And the risk of a heavy sea boarding us was fearfully
multiplied by having thus to cross the storm instead of breasting
it.  Useless and helpless, and only in the way, and battered about
by wind and sea, so that my Sunday dress was become a drag, what
folly, what fatuity, what frenzy, I might call it, could ever have
led me to jump into that boat?  "I don't know.  I only know that I
always do it," said my sensible self to its mad sister, as they
both shut their eyes at a great white wave.  "If I possibly
survive, I will try to know better.  But ever from my childhood I
am getting into scrapes."

The boat labored on, with a good many grunts, but not a word from
any one.  More than once we were obliged to fetch up as a great
billow topped the poor shingle bank; and we took so much water on
board that the men said afterward that I saved them.  I only
remember sitting down and working at the bucket with both hands,
till much of the skin was gone, and my arms and many other places
ached.  But what was that to be compared with drowning?

At length we were opposite "Desolate Hole," which was a hole no
longer, but filled and flooded with the churning whirl and reckless
dominance of water.  Tufts and tussocks of shattered brush and
rolling wreck played round it, and the old gray stone of mullioned
windows split the wash like mooring-posts.  We passed and gazed;
but the only sound was the whistling of the tempest, and the only
living sight a sea-gull, weary of his wings, and drowning.

"No living creature can be there," the Major broke our long
silence.  "Land, my friends, if land we may.  We risk our own lives
for nothing."

The men lay back on their oars to fetch the gallant boat to the
wind again, when through a great gap in the ruins they saw a sight
that startled manhood.  At the back of that ruin, on the landward
side, on a wall which, tottered under them, there were two figures
standing.  One a tall man, urging on, the other a woman shrinking.
At a glance, or with a thought, I knew them both.  One was Lord
Castlewood's first love, the other his son and murderer.

Our men shouted with the whole power of their hearts to tell that
miserable pair to wait till succor should be brought to them.  And
the Major stood up and waved his hat, and in doing so tumbled back
again.  I can not tell--how could I tell in the thick of it?--but
an idea or a flit of fancy touched me (and afterward became
conviction) that while the man heard us not at all, and had no
knowledge of us, his mother turned round and saw us all, and faced
the storm in preference.

Whatever the cause may have been, at least she suddenly changed her
attitude.  The man had been pointing to the roof, which threatened
to fall in a mass upon them, while she had been shuddering back
from the depth of eddying waves below her.  But now she drew up her
poor bent figure, and leaned on her son to obey him.

Our boat, with strong arms laboring for life, swept round the old
gable of the ruin; but we were compelled to "give it wide berth,"
as Captain Barnes shouted; and then a black squall of terrific wind
and hail burst forth.  We bowed our heads and drew our bodies to
their tightest compass, and every rib of our boat vibrated as a
violin does; and the oars were beaten flat, and dashed their drip
into fringes like a small-toothed comb.

That great squall was either a whirlwind or the crowning blast of a
hurricane.  It beat the high waves hollow, as if it fell from the
sky upon them; and it snapped off one of our oars at the hilt, so
that two of our men rolled backward.  And when we were able to look
about again the whole roof of "Desolate Hole" was gone, and little
of the walls left standing.  And how we should guide our course, or
even save our lives, we knew not.

We were compelled to bring up--as best we might--with the boat's
head to the sea, and so to keep it by using the steering gear
against the surviving oar.  As for the people we were come to save,
there was no chance whatever of approaching them.  Even without the
mishap to the oar, we never could have reached them.

And indeed when first we saw them again they seemed better off than
ourselves were.  For they were not far from dry land, and the man
(a skillful and powerful swimmer) had a short piece of plank, which
he knew how to use to support his weak companion.

"Brave fellow! fine fellow!" the Major cried, little knowing whom
he was admiring.  "See how he keeps up his presence of mind!  Such
a man as that is worth any thing.  And he cares more for her than
he does for himself.  He shall have the Society's medal.  One more
long and strong stroke, my noble friend.  Oh, great God! what has
befallen him?"

In horror and pity we gazed.  The man had been dashed against
something headlong.  He whirled round and round in white water, his
legs were thrown up, and we saw no more of him.  The woman cast off
the plank, and tossed her helpless arms in search of him.  A
shriek, ringing far on the billowy shore, declared that she had
lost him; and then, without a struggle, she clasped her hands, and
the merciless water swallowed her.

"It is all over," cried Major Hockin, lifting his drenched hat
solemnly.  "The Lord knoweth best.  He has taken them home."



CHAPTER LV

A DEAD LETTER


With that great tornado, the wind took a leap of more points of the
compass than I can tell.  Barnes, the fisherman, said how many; but
I might be quite wrong in repeating it.  One thing, at any rate,
was within my compass--it had been blowing to the top of its
capacity, direct from the sea, but now it began to blow quite as
hard along the shore.  This rough ingratitude of wind to waves,
which had followed each breath of its orders, produced extraordinary
passion, and raked them into pointed wind-cocks.

"Captain, we can't live this out," cried Barnes; "we must run her
ashore at once; tide has turned; we might be blown out to sea, with
one oar, and then the Lord Himself couldn't save us."

Crippled as we were, we contrived to get into a creek, or
backwater, near the Major's gate.  Here the men ran the boat up,
and we all climbed out, stiff, battered, and terrified, but doing
our best to be most truly thankful.

"Go home, Captain, as fast as you can, and take the young lady
along of you," said Mr. Barnes, as we stood and gazed at the
weltering breadth of disaster.  "We are born to the drip, but not
you, Sir; and you are not so young as you was, you know."

"I am younger than ever I was," the lord of the manor answered,
sternly, yet glancing back to make sure of no interruption from his
better half--who had not even heard of his danger.  "None of that
nonsense to me, Barnes.  You know your position, and I know mine.
On board of that boat you took the lead, and that may have misled
you.  I am very much obliged to you, I am sure, for all your skill
and courage, which have saved the lives of all of us.  But on land
you will just obey me."

"Sartinly, Captain.  What's your orders?"

"Nothing at all.  I give no orders.  I only make suggestions.  But
if your experience sees a way to recover those two poor bodies, let
us try it at once--at once, Barnes.  Erema, run home.  This is no
scene for you.  And tell Margaret to put on the double-bottomed
boiler, with the stock she made on Friday, and a peck of patent
pease.  There is nothing to beat pea soup; and truly one never
knows what may happen."

This was only too evident now, and nobody disobeyed him.

Running up his "drive" to deliver that message, at one of the many
bends I saw people from Bruntsea hurrying along a footpath through
the dairy-farm.  While the flood continued this was their only way
to meet the boat's crew.  On the steps of "Smuggler's Castle" (as
Bruntlands House was still called by the wicked) I turned again,
and the new sea-line was fringed with active searchers.  I knew
what they were looking for, but, scared and drenched and shivering
as I was, no more would I go near them.  My duty was rather to go
in and comfort dear Aunt Mary and myself.  In that melancholy quest
I could do no good, but a great deal of harm, perhaps, if any thing
was found, by breaking forth about it.

Mrs. Hockin had not the least idea of the danger we had encountered.
Bailiff Hopkins had sent her home in Rasper's fly by an inland
road, and she kept a good scolding quite ready for her husband, to
distract his mind from disaster.  That trouble had happened she
could not look out of her window without knowing; but could it be
right, at their time of life, to stand in the wet so, and challenge
Providence, and spoil the first turkey-poult of the season?

But when she heard of her husband's peril, in the midst of all his
losses, his self-command, and noble impulse first of all to rescue
life, she burst into tears, and hugged and kissed me, and said the
same thing nearly fifty times.

"Just like him.  Just like my Nicholas.  You thought him a
speculative, selfish man.  Now you see your mistake, Erema."

When her veteran husband came home at last (thoroughly jaded, and
bringing his fishermen to gulp the pea soup and to gollop the
turkey), a small share of mind, but a large one of heart, is
required to imagine her doings.  Enough that the Major kept saying,
"Pooh-pooh!" and the more he said, the less he got of it.

When feelings calmed down, and we returned to facts, our host and
hero (who, in plain truth, had not so wholly eclipsed me in
courage, though of course I expected no praise, and got none, for
people hate courage in a lady), to put it more simply, the Major
himself, making a considerable fuss, as usual--for to my mind he
never could be Uncle Sam--produced from the case of his little
"Church Service," to which he had stuck like a Briton, a sealed and
stamped letter, addressed to me at Castlewood, in Berkshire--
"stamped," not with any post-office tool, but merely with the red
thing which pays the English post.

Sodden and blurred as the writing was, I knew the clear, firm hand,
the same which on the envelope at Shoxford had tempted me to
meanness.  This letter was from Thomas Hoyle; the Major had taken
it from the pocket of his corpse; all doubt about his death was
gone.  When he felt his feet on the very shore, and turned to
support his mother, a violent wave struck the back of his head upon
Major Hockin's pillar-box.

Such sadness came into my heart--though sternly it should have been
gladness--that I begged their pardon, and went away, as if with a
private message.  And wicked as it may have been, to read was more
than once to cry.  The letter began abruptly:

"You know nearly all my story now.  I have only to tell you what
brought me to you, and what my present offer is.  But to make it
clear, I must enlarge a little.

"There was no compact of any kind between your father and myself.
He forbore at first to tell what he must have known, partly,
perhaps, to secure my escape, and partly for other reasons.  If he
had been brought to trial, his duty to his family and himself would
have led him, no doubt, to explain things.  And if that had failed,
I would have returned and surrendered myself.  As things happened,
there was no need.

"Through bad luck, with which I had nothing to do, though doubtless
the whole has been piled on my head, your father's home was
destroyed, and he seems to have lost all care for every thing.  Yet
how much better off was he than I!  Upon me the curse fell at
birth; upon him, after thirty years of ease and happiness.
However, for that very reason, perhaps, he bore it worse than I
did.  He grew imbittered against the world, which had in no way
ill-treated him; whereas its very first principle is to scorn all
such as I am.  He seems to have become a misanthrope, and a
fatalist like myself.  Though it might almost make one believe the
existence of such a thing as justice to see pride pay for its
wickedness thus--the injury to the outcast son recoil upon the
pampered one, and the family arrogance crown itself with the
ignominy of the family.

"In any case, there was no necessity for my interference; and being
denied by fate all sense of duty to a father, I was naturally
driven to double my duty to my mother, whose life was left hanging
upon mine.  So we two for many years wandered about, shunning
islands and insular prejudice.  I also shunned your father, though
(so far as I know) he neither sought me nor took any trouble to
clear himself.  If the one child now left him had been a son, heir
to the family property and so on, he might have behaved quite
otherwise, and he would have been bound to do so.  But having only
a female child, who might never grow up, and, if she did, was very
unlikely to succeed, he must have resolved at least to wait.  And
perhaps he confirmed himself with the reflection that even if
people believed his tale (so long after date and so unvouched), so
far as family annals were concerned, the remedy would be as bad as
the disease.  Moreover, he owed his life to me, at great risk of my
own; and to pay such a debt with the hangman's rope would scarcely
appear quite honorable, even in the best society.

"It is not for me to pretend to give his motives, although from my
knowledge of his character I can guess them pretty well, perhaps.
We went our several ways in the world, neither of us very
fortunate.

"One summer, in the Black Forest, I fell in with an outcast
Englishman, almost as great a vagabond as myself.  He was under the
ban of the law for writing his father's name without license.  He
did not tell me that, or perhaps even I might have despised him,
for I never was dishonest.  But one great bond there was between
us--we both detested laws and men.  My intimacy with him is the one
thing in life which I am ashamed of.  He passed by a false name
then, of course.  But his true name was Montague Hockin.  My mother
was in very weak health then, and her mind for the most part
clouded; and I need not say that she knew nothing of what I had
done for her sake.  That man pretended to take the greatest
interest in her condition, and to know a doctor at Baden who could
cure her.

"We avoided all cities (as he knew well), and lived in simple
villages, subsisting partly upon my work, and partly upon the
little income left by my grandfather, Thomas Hoyle.  But, compared
with Hockin, we were well off; and he did his best to swindle us.
Luckily all my faith in mankind was confined to the feminine
gender, and not much even of that survived.  In a very little time
I saw that people may repudiate law as well from being below as
from being above it.

"Then he came one night, with the finest style and noblest contempt
of every thing.  We must prepare ourselves for great news, and all
our kindness to him would be repaid tenfold in a week or two.  Let
me go into Freyburg that time to-morrow night, and listen.  I asked
him nothing as to what he meant, for I was beginning to weary of
him, as of every body.  However, I thought it just worth while,
having some one who bought my wicker-work, to enter the outskirts
of the town on the following evening, and wait to be told if any
news was stirring.  And the people were amazed at my not knowing
that last night the wife of an English lord--for so they called
him, though no lord yet--had run away with a golden-bearded man,
believed to be also English.

"About that you know more, perhaps, than I do.  But I wish you to
know what that Hockin was, and to clear myself of complicity.  Of
Herbert Castlewood I knew nothing, and I never even saw the lady.
And to say (as Sir Montague Hockin has said) that I plotted all
that wickedness, from spite toward all of the Castlewood name, is
to tell as foul a lie as even he can well indulge in.

"It need not be said that he does not know my story from any word
of mine.  To such a fellow I was not likely to commit my mother's
fate.  But he seems to have guessed at once that there was
something strange in my history; and then, after spying and low
prying at my mother, to have shaped his own conclusion.  Then,
having entirely under his power that young fool who left a kind
husband for him, he conceived a most audacious scheme.  This was no
less than to rob your cousin, the last Lord Castlewood, not of his
wife and jewels and ready money only, but also of all the
disposable portion of the Castlewood estates.  For the lady's
mother had taken good care, like a true Hungarian, to have all the
lands settled upon her daughter, so far as the husband could deal
with them.  And though, at the date of the marriage, he could not
really deal at all with them--your father being still alive--it
appears that his succession (when it afterward took place) was
bound, at any rate, as against himself.  A divorce might have
canceled this--I can not say--but your late cousin was the last
man in the world to incur the needful exposure.  Upon this they
naturally counted.

"The new 'Lady Hockin' (as she called herself, with as much right
as 'Lady Castlewood') flirted about while her beauty lasted; but
even then found her master in a man of deeper wickedness.  But if
her poor husband desired revenge--which he does not seem to have
done, perhaps--he could not have had it better.  She was seized
with a loathsome disease, which devoured her beauty, like Herod and
his glory.  I believe that she still lives, but no one can go near
her; least of all, the fastidious Montague."

At this part of the letter I drew a deep breath, and exclaimed,
"Thank God!" I know not how many times; and perhaps it was a crime
of me to do it even once.

"Finding his nice prospective game destroyed by this little
accident--for he meant to have married the lady after her husband's
death, and set you at defiance; but even he could not do that now,
little as he cares for opinion--what did he do but shift hands
altogether?  He made up his mind to confer the honor of his hand on
you, having seen you somewhere in London, and his tactics became
the very opposite of what they had been hitherto.  Your father's
innocence now must be maintained instead of his guiltiness.

"With this in view, he was fool enough to set the detective police
after me--me, who could snap all their noses off!  For he saw how
your heart was all set on one thing, and expected to have you his
serf forever, by the simple expedient of hanging me.  The
detectives failed, as they always do.  He also failed in his
overtures to you.

"You did your utmost against me also, for which I bear you no
ill-will, but rather admire your courage.  You acted in a
straightforward way, and employed no dirty agency.  Of your simple
devices I had no fear.  However, I thought it as well to keep an
eye upon that Hockin, and a worthy old fool, some relation of his,
who had brought you back from America.  To this end I kept my head-
quarters near him, and established my mother comfortably.  She was
ordered sea air, and has had enough.  To-morrow I shall remove her.
By the time you receive this letter we shall both be far away, and
come back no more; but first I shall punish that Hockin.  Without
personal violence this will be done.

"Now what I propose to you is simple, moderate, and most strictly
just.  My mother's little residue of life must pass in ease and
comfort.  She has wronged no one, but ever been wronged.  Allow her
300 pounds a year, to be paid as I shall direct you.  For myself I
will not take a farthing.  You will also restore, as I shall
direct, the trinket upon which she sets great value, and for which
I sought vainly when we came back to England.  I happen to know
that you have it now.

"In return for these just acts, you have the right to set forth the
whole truth publicly, to proclaim your father's innocence, and (as
people will say) his chivalry; and, which will perhaps rejoice you
also, to hear no more of

"THOMAS HOYLE.

"P.S.--Of course I am trusting your honor in this.  But your
father's daughter can be no sneak; as indeed I have already
proved."



CHAPTER LVI

WITH HIS OWN SWORD


"What a most wonderful letter!" cried the Major, when, after
several careful perusals, I thought it my duty to show it to him.
"He calls me a 'worthy old fool,' does he?  Well, I call him
something a great deal worse--an unworthy skulk, a lunatic, a
subverter of rank, and a Radical!  And because he was a bastard, is
the whole world base?  And to come and live like that in a house of
mine, and pay me no rent, and never even let me see him!  Your
grandfather was quite right, my dear, in giving him the cold
shoulder.  Of course you won't pay him a farthing."

"You forget that he is dead," I answered, "and his poor mother with
him.  At least he behaved well to his mother.  You called him a
hero--when you knew not who he was.  Poor fellow, he is dead!  And,
in spite of all, I can not help being very sorry for him."

"Yes, I dare say.  Women always are.  But you must show a little
common-sense, Erema.  Your grandfather seems to have had too much,
and your father far too little.  We must keep this matter quiet.
Neither the man nor the woman must we know, or a nice stir we shall
have in all the county papers.  There must be an inquest, of
course, upon them both; but none of the fellows read this
direction, for the admirable reason that they can not read.  Our
coming forward could do no good, and just now Bruntsea has other
things to think of; and, first and foremost, my ruin, as they say."

"Please not to talk of that," I exclaimed.  "I can raise any
quantity of money now, and you shall have it without paying
interest.  You wanted the course of the river restored, and now you
have more--you have got the very sea.  You could float the Bridal
Veil itself, I do believe, at Bruntsea."

"You have suggested a fine idea," the Major exclaimed, with
emphasis.  "You certainly should have been an engineer.  It is a
thousand times easier--as every body knows--to keep water in than
to keep it out.  Having burst my barricade, the sea shall stop
inside and pay for it.  Far less capital will be required.  By
Jove, what a fool I must have been not to see the hand of
Providence in all this!  Mary, can you spare me a minute, my dear?
The noblest idea has occurred to me.  Well, never mind, if you are
busy; perhaps I had better not state it crudely, though it is not
true that it happens every hour.  I shall turn it over in my mind
throughout the evening service.  I mean to be there, just to let
them see.  They think that I am crushed, of course.  They will see
their mistake; and, Erema, you may come.  The gale is over, and the
evening bright.  You sit by the fire, Mary, my dear; I shall not
let you out again; keep the silver kettle boiling.  In church I
always think more clearly than where people talk so much.  But when
I come home I require something.  I see, I see.  Instead of an
idle, fashionable lounging-place for nincompoops from London,
instead of flirtation and novel-reading, vulgarity, show, and
indecent attire, and positively immoral bathing, we will now have
industry, commerce, wealth, triumph of mechanism, lofty enterprise,
and international good-will.  A harbor has been the great want of
this coast; see what a thing it is at Newport!  We will now have a
harbor and floating docks, without any muddy, malarious river--all
blue water from the sea; and our fine cliff range shall be studded
with good houses.  And the whole shall be called 'Erema-port.'"

Well, Erema must be getting very near her port, although it was not
at Bruntsea.  Enough for this excellent man and that still more
excellent woman that there they are, as busy and as happy as the
day is long--which imposes some limit upon happiness, perhaps,
inasmuch as to the busy every day is short.  But Mrs. Hockin,
though as full of fowls as ever, gets no White Sultans nor any
other rarity now from Sir Montague Hockin.  That gentleman still is
alive--so far, at least, as we have heard of; but no people owning
any self-respect ever deal with him, to their knowledge.  He
gambled away all his father's estates, and the Major bought the
last of them for his youngest son, a very noble Captain Hockin
(according to his mother's judgment), whom I never had the honor of
seeing.  Sir Montague lives in a sad plight somewhere, and his
cousin still hopes that he may turn honest.

But as to myself and far greater persons, still there are a few
words to be said.  As soon as all necessary things were done at
Bruntsea and at Castlewood, and my father's memory cleared from all
stain, and by simple truth ennobled, in a manner strictly legal and
consistent with heavy expenses, myself having made a long
deposition and received congratulations--as soon as it was
possible, I left them all, and set sail for America.

The rashness of such a plan it is more easy for one to establish
than two to deny.  But what was there in it of peril or of
enterprise compared with what I had been through already?  I could
not keep myself now from going, and reasoned but little about it.

Meanwhile there had been no further tidings of Colonel Gundry or
Firm, or even Martin of the Mill himself.  But one thing I did
which showed some little foresight.  As soon as my mind was made
up, and long before ever I could get away, I wrote to Martin
Clogfast, telling him of my intention, and begging him, if he had
any idea of the armies, or the Sawyer, or even Firm, or any thing
whatever of interest, to write (without losing a day) to me,
directing his letter to a house in New York whose address Major
Hockin gave me.

So many things had to be done, and I listened so foolishly to the
Major (who did his very best to stop me), that it came to be May,
1862 (nearly four years after my father's death), before I could
settle all my plans and start.  For every body said that I was much
too young to take such a journey all by myself, and "what every
body says must be right," whenever there is no exception to prove
the rule.  "Aunt Marys" are not to be found every day, nor even
Major Hockins; and this again helped to throw me back in getting
away from England.  And but for his vast engineering ideas, and
another slight touch of rheumatic gout (brought upon herself by
Mrs. Hockin through setting seven hens in one evening), the Major
himself might have come with me, "to observe the new military
tactics," as well as to look for his cousin Sampson.

In recounting this I seem to be as long as the thing itself was in
accomplishing.  But at last it was done, and most kindly was I
offered the very thing to suit me--permission to join the party of
a well-known British officer, Colonel Cheriton, of the Engineers.
This gentleman, being of the highest repute as a writer upon
military subjects, had leave from the Federal government to observe
the course of this tremendous war.  And perhaps he will publish
some day what seems as yet to be wholly wanting--a calm and
impartial narrative of that unparalleled conflict.  At any rate, he
meant to spare no trouble in a matter so instructive, and he took
his wife and two daughters--very nice girls, who did me a world of
good--to establish them in Washington, or wherever the case might
require.

Lucky as this was for me, I could not leave my dear and faithful
friends without deep sorrow; but we all agreed that it should be
only for a very little time.  We landed first at New York, and
there I found two letters from Martin of the Mill.  In the first he
grumbled much, and told me that nothing was yet known about Uncle
Sam; in the second he grumbled (if possible) more, but gave me some
important news.  To wit, he had received a few lines from the
Sawyer, who had failed as yet to find his grandson, and sadly
lamented the misery he saw, and the shocking destruction of God's
good works.  He said that he could not bring himself to fight (even
if he were young enough) against his own dear countrymen, one of
whom was his own grandson; at the same time he felt that they must
be put down for trying to have things too much their own way.
About slavery, he had seen too much of niggers to take them at all
for his equals, and no white man with any self-respect would desire
to be their brother.  The children of Ham were put down at the
bottom, as their noses and their lips pronounced, according to
Divine revelation; and for sons of Japheth to break up the noblest
nation in the world, on their account, was like rushing in to
inherit their curse.  As sure as his name was Sampson Gundry, those
who had done it would get the worst, though as yet they were doing
wonders.  And there could be no doubt about one thing--which party
it was that began it.  But come what would of it, here he was; and
never would Saw-mills see him again unless he brought Firm Gundry.
But he wanted news of poor Miss 'Rema; and if any came to the
house, they must please to send it to the care of Colonel Baker,
headquarters of the Army of the Potomac.

This was the very thing I wished to know, and I saw now how stupid
I must have been not to have thought of it long ago.  For Colonel
Baker was, to my knowledge, an ancient friend of Uncle Sam, and had
joined the national army at the very outbreak of the war.  Well
known not only in California, but throughout the States, for
gallantry and conduct, this officer had been a great accession to
the Federal cause, when so many wavered, and so he was appointed to
a good command.  But, alas! when I told Colonel Cheriton my news, I
learned from him (who had carefully watched all the incidents of
the struggle) that Uncle Sam's noble friend had fallen in the
battle of Ball's Bluff, while charging at the head of his regiment.

Still, there was hope that some of the officers might know where to
find Uncle Sam, who was not at all a man to be mislaid; and being
allowed to accompany my English friends, I went on to Washington.
We found that city in a highly nervous state, and from time to time
ready to be captured.  General Jackson was almost at the gates, and
the President every day was calling out for men.  The Army of
Virginia had been beaten back to intrenchments before the capital,
and General Lee was invading Maryland.  Battle followed battle,
thick as blows upon a threshing-floor, and though we were always
said to be victorious, the enemy seemed none the more to run away.
In this confusion, what chance had I of discovering even the
Sawyer?

Colonel Cheriton (who must have found me a dreadful thorn in the
flank of his strategy) missed no opportunity of inquiry, as he went
from one valley to another.  For the war seemed to run along the
course of rivers, though it also passed through the forests and
lakes, and went up into the mountains.  Our wonderfully clever and
kind member of the British army was delighted with the movements of
General Lee, who alone showed scientific elegance in slaying his
fellow-countrymen; and the worst of it was that instead of going
after my dear Uncle Sam, Colonel Cheriton was always rushing about
with maps, plans, and telescopes, to follow the tracery of Lee's
campaign.  To treat of such matters is far beyond me, as I am most
thankful to confess.  Neither will I dare to be sorry for a great
man doing what became his duty.  My only complaint against him is
that he kept us in a continual fright.

However, this went by, and so did many other things, though heavily
laden with grief and death; and the one thing we learned was to
disbelieve ninety-nine out of every hundred.  Letters for the
Sawyer were dispatched by me to every likely place for him, and
advertisements put into countless newspapers, but none of them
seemed to go near him.  Old as he was, he avoided feather-beds, and
roamed like a true Californian.  But at last I found him, in a sad,
sad way.

It was after the battle of Chancellorsville, and our army had been
driven back across the Rappahannock.  "Our army," I call it,
because (although we belonged to neither party) fortune had brought
us into contact with these, and knowing more about them, we were
bound to take their side.  And not only that, but to me it appeared
altogether beyond controversy that a man of large mind and long
experience (such as Uncle Sam had) should know much better than his
grandson which cause was the one to fight for.  At the same time
Firm was not at all to be condemned.  And if it was true, as Martin
Clogfast said, that trouble of mind at my absence had driven him
into a prejudiced view, nothing could possibly be more ungracious
than for me to make light of his judgment.

Being twenty years old by this time, I was wiser than I used to be,
and now made a practice of thinking twice before rushing into
peril, as I used to do in California, and to some extent also in
England.  For though my adventures might not have been as strange
as many I myself have heard of (especially from Suan Isco),
nevertheless they had comprised enough of teaching and suffering
also to make me careful about having any more.  And so for a long
time I kept at the furthest distance possible, in such a war, from
the vexing of the air with cannons, till even Colonel Cheriton's
daughters--perfectly soft and peaceful girls--began to despise me
as a coward.  Knowing what I had been through, I indulged their
young opinions.

Therefore they were the more startled when I set forth under a
sudden impulse, or perhaps impatience, for a town very near the
head-quarters of the defeated General Hooker.  As they were so
brave, I asked them whether they would come with me; but although
their father was known to be there, they turned pale at the thought
of it.  This pleased me, and made me more resolute to go; and in
three days' time I was at Falmouth, a town on our side of the
Rappahannock.

Here I saw most miserable sights that made me ashamed of all
trifling fear.  When hundreds and thousands of gallant men were
dying in crippled agony, who or what was I to make any fuss about
my paltry self?  Clumsy as I was, some kind and noble ladies taught
me how to give help among the sufferers.

At first I cried so at every body's pain, while asking why ever
they should have it, that I did some good by putting them up to
bear it rather than distress me so.  And when I began to command
myself (as custom soon enabled me), I did some little good again by
showing them how I cared for them.  Their poor weak eyes, perhaps
never expecting to see a nice thing in the world again, used to
follow me about with a faint, slow roll, and a feeble spark of
jealousy.

That I should have had such a chance of doing good, onefold to
others and a thousandfold to self, at this turn of life, when I was
full of little me, is another of the many most clear indications of
a kind hand over me.  Every day there was better than a year of
ordinary life in breaking the mind from its little selfish turns,
and opening the heart to a larger power.  And all this discipline
was needed.

For one afternoon, when we all were tired, with great heat upon us
suddenly, and the flies beginning to be dreadful, our chief being
rather unwell and fast asleep, the surgeons away, and our beds as
full as they could be, I was called down to reason with an
applicant who would take no denial.  "A rough man, a very rough old
man, and in a most terrible state of mind," said the girl who
brought the message; "and room he would have, or he would know the
reason."

"The reason is not far to seek," I answered, more to myself than
her, as I ran down the stairs to discomfit that old man.  At the
open door, with the hot wind tossing worn white curls and parching
shriveled cheeks, now wearily raising his battered hat, stood my
dear Uncle Sam, the Sawyer.

"Lor' a massy! young lady, be you altogether daft?  In my best of
days, never was I lips for kissing.  And the bootifulest creatur--
Come now, I ain't saved your life, have I now?"

"Yes, fifty times over--fifty thousand times.  Uncle Sam, don't you
know Erema?"

"My eyes be dashed!  And dashed they be, to forget the look of
yours, my dearie.  Seven days have I marched without thanking the
Lord; and hot coals of fire has He poured upon me now, for His
mercy endureth forever.  To think of you--to think of you--as like
my own child as could be--only of more finer breed--here standing
in front of me, like this here!  There!  I never dreamed to do that
again, and would scorn a young man at the sight of it."

The Sawyer was too honest to conceal that he was weeping.  He
simply turned his tanned and weathered face toward the door-post,
not to hide his tears, but reconcile his pride by feigning it.  I
felt that he must be at very low ebb, and all that I had seen of
other people's sorrow had no power to assuage me.  Inside the door,
to keep the hot wind out and hide my eyes from the old man's face,
I had some little quiet sobs, until we could both express
ourselves.

"It is poor Firm, the poor, poor lad!--oh, what hath happened him?
That I should see the day!"

Uncle Sam's deep voice broke into a moan, and he bowed his rough
forehead on his arm, and shook.  Then I took him by the sleeve and
brought him in.

"Not dead--poor Firm, your only one--not dead?" as soon as words
would come, I asked, and trembled for the opening of his lips.

"Not dead--not quite; but ten times worse.  He hath flown into the
face of the Lord, like Saul and his armor-bearer; he hath fallen on
his own sword; and the worst of it is that the darned thing won't
come out again."

"Firm--the last person in the world to do it!  Oh, Uncle Sam,
surely they have told you--"

"No lies--no lie at all, my dear.  And not only that, but he
wanteth now to die--and won't be long first, I reckon.  But no time
to lose, my dear.  The Lord hath sent you to make him happy in his
leaving of the world.  Can 'e raise a bed and a doctor here?  If he
would but groan, I could bear it a bit, instead of bleeding inward.
And for sartin sure, a' would groan nicely, if only by force of
habit, at first sight of a real doctor."

"There are half a dozen here," I said; "or at least close by.  He
shall have my own bed.  But where is he?"

"We have laid 'un in the sand," he answered, simply, "for to dry
his perspiration.  That weak the poor chap is that he streameth
night and day, miss.  Never would you know him for our Firm now,
any more than me for Sampson Gundry.  Ah me! but the Lord is hard
on us!"

Slowly and heavily he went his way to fetch poor Firm to the
hospital; while, with light feet but a heavy heart, I returned to
arouse our managers.  Speedily and well were all things done; and
in half an hour Finn lay upon my bed, with two of the cleverest
surgeons of New York most carefully examining his wasted frame.
These whispered and shook their heads, as in such a case was
indispensable; and listening eagerly, I heard the senior surgeon
say, "No, he could never bear it."  The younger man seemed to think
otherwise, but to give way to the longer experience.  Then dear
Uncle Sam, having bought a new hat at the corner of the street,
came forward.  Knowing too well what excitement is, and how it
changes every one, I lifted my hand for him to go back; but he only
put his great hot web of fingers into mine, and drew me to him
softly, and covered me up with his side.  "He heareth nort, nort,
nort," he whispered to me; and then spoke aloud:

"Gentlemen and ladies--or ladies and gentlemen, is the more correct
form nowadays--have I leave to say a word or two?  Then if I have,
as your manner to me showeth, and heartily thanking you for that
same, my words shall go into an acorn-cup.  This lad, laid out at
your mercy here, was as fine a young fellow as the West hath ever
raised--straight and nimble, and could tell no lie.  Family
reasons, as you will excoose of, drew him to the arms of rebellion.
I may have done, and overdone it myself, in arguing cantrips and
convictions, whereof to my knowledge good never came yet.  At any
rate, off he went anyhow, and the force of nature drew me after
him.  No matter that to you, I dare say; but it would be, if you
was in it.

"Ladies and gentlemen, here he is, and no harm can you make out of
him.  Although he hath fought for the wrong side to our thinking,
bravely hath he fought, and made his way to a colonelship, worth
five thousand dollars, if ever they pay their wages.  Never did I
think that he would earn so much, having never owned gifts of
machinery; and concerning the handling of the dollars, perhaps,
will carry my opinion out.  But where was I wandering of a little
thing like that?

"It hath pleased the Lord, who doeth all things well, when finally
come to look back upon--the Lord hath seen fit to be down on this
young man for going agin his grandfather.  From Californy--a free
State, mind you--he come away to fight for slavery.  And how hath
he magnified his office?  By shooting the biggest man on that side,
the almighty foe of the Union, the foremost captain of Midian--the
general in whom they trusted.  No bullets of ours could touch him;
but by his own weapons he hath fallen.  And soon as Ephraim Gundry
heard it, he did what you see done to him."

Uncle Sam having said his say--which must have cost him dearly--
withdrew from the bed where his grandson's body lay shrunken, lax,
and grimy.  To be sure that it was Firm, I gave one glance--for
Firm had always been straight, tall, and large--and then, in a
miserable mood, I stole to the Sawyer's side to stand with him.
"Am I to blame?  Is this my fault?  For even this am I to blame?"
I whispered; but he did not heed me, and his hands were like hard
stone.

After a long, hot, heavy time, while I was laboring vainly, the
Sawyer also (through exhaustion of excitement) weary, and afraid to
begin again with new bad news, as beaten people expect to do, the
younger surgeon came up to him, and said, "Will you authorize it?"

"To cut 'un up?  To show your museums what a Western lad is?
Never.  By the Blue River he shall have a good grave.  So help me
God, to my own, my man!"

"You misunderstand me.  We have more subjects now than we should
want for fifty years.  War knocks the whole of their value on the
head.  We have fifty bodies as good as this, and are simply obliged
to bury them.  What I mean is, shall we pull the blade out?"

"Can he do any thing with that there blade in him?  I have heard of
a man in Kentucky once--"

"Yes, yes; we know all those stories, Colonel--suit the newspapers,
not the journals.  This fellow has what must kill him inside; he is
worn to a shadow already.  If there it is left, die he must, and
quick stick; inflammation is set up already.  If we extract it, his
chance of surviving is scarcely one in a hundred."

"Let him have the one, then, the one in the hundred, like the
ninety and nine lost sheep.  The Lord can multiply a hundredfold--
some threescore, and some an hundredfold.  I will speak to Him,
gentlemen, while you try the job."



CHAPTER LVII

FEMALE SUFFRAGE


All that could be done by skill and care and love, was done for
Firm.  Our lady manager and head nurse never left him when she
could be spared, and all the other ladies vied in zeal for this
young soldier, so that I could scarcely get near him.  His
grandfather's sad and extraordinary tale was confirmed by a wounded
prisoner.  Poor Ephraim Gundry's rare power of sight had been fatal
perhaps to the cause he fought for, or at least to its greatest
captain.  Returning from desperate victory, the general, wrapped in
the folds of night, and perhaps in the gloom of his own stern
thoughts, while it seemed quite impossible that he should be seen,
encountered the fire of his own troops; and the order to fire was
given by his favorite officer, Colonel Firm Gundry.  When the young
man learned that he had destroyed, by a lingering death, the chief
idol of his heart, he called for a rifle, but all refused him,
knowing too well what his purpose was.  Then under the trees,
without a word or sigh, he set the hilt of his sword upon the
earth, and the point to his heart--as well as he could find it.
The blade passed through him, and then snapped off--But I can not
bear to speak of it.

And now, few people might suppose it, but the substance of which he
was made will be clear, when not only his own knowledge of his case
but also the purest scientific reasoning established a truth more
frankly acknowledged in the New World than in the Old one.  It was
proved that, with a good constitution, it is safer to receive two
wounds than one, even though they may not be at the same time
taken.  Firm had been shot by the captain of Mexican robbers, as
long ago related.  He was dreadfully pulled down at the time, and
few people could have survived it.  But now that stood him in the
very best stead, not only as a lesson of patience, but also in the
question of cartilage.  But not being certain what cartilage is, I
can only refer inquirers to the note-book of the hospital, which
has been printed.

For us it was enough to know that (shattered as he was and must be)
this brave and single-minded warrior struggled for the time
successfully with that great enemy of the human race, to whom the
human race so largely consign one another and themselves.  But some
did say, and emphatically Uncle Sam, that Colonel Firm Gundry--for
a colonel he was now, not by courtesy, but commission--would never
have held up his head to do it, but must have gone on with his
ravings for death, if somebody had not arrived in the nick of time,
and cried over him--a female somebody from old England.

And, even after that, they say that he never would have cared to be
a man again, never would have calmed his conscience with the
reflection, so commonplace and yet so high--that having done our
best according to our lights, we must not dwell always on our
darkness--if once again, and for the residue of life, there had not
been some one to console him--a consolation that need not have, and
is better without, pure reason, coming, as that would come, from a
quarter whence it is never quite welcome.  Enough for me that he
never laid hand to a weapon of war again, and never shall unless
our own home is invaded.

For after many months--each equal to a year of teaching and of
humbling--there seemed to be a good time for me to get away and
attend to my duties in England.  Of these I had been reminded often
by letters, and once by a messenger; but all money matters seemed
dust in the balance where life and death were swinging.  But now
Uncle Sam and his grandson, having their love knit afresh by
disaster, were eager to start for the Saw-mill, and trust all
except their own business to Providence.

I had told them that, when they went westward, my time would be
come for starting eastward; and being unlikely to see them again, I
should hope for good news frequently.  And then I got dear Uncle
Sam by himself, and begged him, for the sake of Firm's happiness,
to keep him as far as he could from Pennsylvania Sylvester.  At the
same time I thought that the very nice young lady who jumped upon
his nose from the window, Miss Annie--I forgot her name, or at any
rate I told him so--would make him a good straightforward wife, so
far as one could tell from having seen her.  And that seemed to
have been settled in their infancy.  And if he would let me know
when it was to be, I had seen a thing in London I should like to
give them.

When I asked the Sawyer to see to this, instead of being sorry, he
seemed quite pleased, and nodded sagaciously, and put his hat on,
as he generally did, to calculate.

"Both of them gals have married long ago," he said, looking at me
with a fine soft gaze; "and bad handfuls their mates have got of
them.  But what made you talk of them, missy--or 'my lady,' as now
you are in old country, I hear--what made you think of them like
that, my dearie?"

"I can't tell what made me think of them.  How can I tell why I
think of every thing?"

"Still, it was an odd thing for your ladyship to say."

"Uncle Sam, I am nobody's ladyship, least of all yours.  What makes
you speak so?  I am your own little wandering child, whose life you
saved, and whose father you loved, and who loses all who love her.
Even from you I am forced to go away.  Oh, why is it always my
fate--my fate?"

"Hush!" said the old man; and I stopped my outburst at his whisper.
"To talk of fate, my dearie, shows either one thing or the other--
that we have no will of our own, or else that we know not how to
guide it.  I never knew a good man talk of fate.  The heathens and
the pagans made it.  The Lord in heaven is enough for me; and He
always hath allowed me my own free-will, though I may not have
handled 'un cleverly.  And He giveth you your own will now, my
missy--to go from us or to stop with us.  And being as you are a
very grand young woman now, owning English land and income paid in
gold instead of greenbacks--the same as our nugget seems likely--to
my ideas it would be wrong if we was so much as to ask you."

"Is that what you are full of, then, and what makes you so
mysterious?  I did think that you knew me better, and I had a right
to hope so."

"Concerning of yourself alone is not what we must think of.  You
might do this, or you might do that, according to what you was
told, or, even more, according to what was denied you.  For poor
honest people, like Firm and me, to deal with such a case is out of
knowledge.  For us it is--go by the will of the Lord, and dead agin
your own desires."

"But, dear Uncle Sam," I cried, feeling that now I had him upon his
own tenterhooks, "you rebuked me as sharply as lies in your nature
for daring to talk about fate just now; but to what else comes your
own conduct, if you are bound to go against your own desire?  If
you have such a lot of freewill, why must you do what you do not
like to do?"

"Well, well, perhaps I was talking rather large.  The will of the
world is upon us as well.  And we must have respect for its
settlements."

"Now let me," I said, with a trembling wish to have every
thing right and maidenly.  "I have seen so much harm from
misunderstandings, and they are so simple when it is too late--
let me ask you one or two questions, Uncle Sam.  You always answer
every body.  And to you a crooked answer is impossible."

"Business is business," the Sawyer said.  "My dear, I contract
accordingly."

"Very well.  Then, in the first place, what do you wish to have
done with me?  Putting aside all the gossip, I mean, of people who
have never even heard of me."

"Why, to take you back to Saw-mill with us, where you always was so
natural."

"In the next place, what does your grandson wish?"

"To take you back to Saw-mill with him, and keep you there till
death do you part, as chanceth to all mortal pairs."

"And now, Uncle Sam, what do I wish?  You say we all have so much
free-will."

"It is natural that you should wish, my dear, to go and be a great
lady, and marry a nobleman of your own rank, and have a lot of
little noblemen."

"Then I fly against nature; and the fault is yours for filling me
so with machinery."

The Sawyer was beaten, and he never said again that a woman can not
argue.



CHAPTER LVIII

BEYOND DESERT, AND DESERTS


From all the carnage, havoc, ruin, hatred, and fury of that wicked
war we set our little convoy forth, with passes procured from
either side.  According to all rules of war, Firm was no doubt a
prisoner; but having saved his life, and taken his word to serve no
more against them, remembering also that he had done them more
service than ten regiments, the Federal authorities were not sorry
to be quit of him.

He, for his part, being of a deep, retentive nature, bore in his
wounded breast a sorrow which would last his lifetime.  To me he
said not a single word about his bitter fortune, and he could not
bring himself to ask me whether I would share it.  Only from his
eyes sometimes I knew what he was thinking; and having passed
through so much grief, I was moved with deep compassion.  Poor Firm
had been trained by his grandfather to a strong, earnest faith in
Providence, and now this compelled him almost to believe that he
had been specially visited.  For flying in the face of his good
grandfather, and selfishly indulging his own stiff neck, his
punishment had been hard, and almost heavier than he could bear.
Whatever might happen to him now, the spring and the flower of his
life were gone; he still might have some calm existence, but never
win another day of cloudless joy.  And if he had only said this, or
thought about it, we might have looked at him with less sadness of
our own.

But he never said any thing about himself, nor gave any opening for
our comfort to come to him.  Only from day to day he behaved gently
and lovingly to both of us, as if his own trouble must be fought
out by himself, and should dim no other happiness.  And this kept
us thinking of his sorrow all the more, so that I could not even
look at him without a flutter of the heart, which was afraid to be
a sigh.

At last, upon the great mountain range, through which we now were
toiling, with the snow little more than a mantle for the peaks, and
a sparkling veil for sunrise, dear Uncle Sam, who had often shown
signs of impatience, drew me apart from the rest.  Straightforward
and blunt as he generally was, he did not seem altogether ready to
begin, but pulled off his hat, and then put it on again, the
weather being now cold and hot by turns.  And while he did this he
was thinking at his utmost, as every full vein of his forehead
declared.  And being at home with his ways, I waited.

"Think you got ahead of me?  No, not you," he exclaimed at last, in
reply to some version of his own of my ideas, which I carefully
made a nonentity under the scrutiny of his keen blue eyes.  "No,
no, missy; you wait a bit.  Uncle Sam was not hatched yesterday,
and it takes fifty young ladies to go round him."

"Is that from your size, Uncle Sam, or your depth?"

"Well, a mixture of both, I do believe.  Now the last thing you
ever would think of, if you lived to be older than Washington's
nurse, is the very thing I mean to put to you.  Only you must
please to take it well, according to my meaning.  You see our Firm
going to a shadow, don't you?  Very well; the fault of that is all
yourn.  Why not up and speak to him?"

"I speak to him every day, Uncle Sam, and I spare no efforts to
fatten him.  I am sure I never dreamed of becoming such a cook.
But soon he will have Suan Isco."

"Old Injun be darned!  It's not the stomach, it's the heart as
wants nourishment with yon poor lad.  He looketh that pitiful at
you sometimes, my faith, I can hardly tell whether to laugh at his
newings or cry at the lean face that does it."

"You are not talking like yourself, Uncle Sam.  And he never does
any thing of the kind.  I am sure there is nothing to laugh at."

"No, no; to be sure not.  I made a mistake.  Heroic is the word, of
course--every thing is heroic."

"It is heroic," I answered, with some vexation at his lightness.
"If you can not see it, I am sorry for you.  I like large things;
and I know of nothing larger than the way poor Firm is going on."

"You to stand up for him!" Colonel Gundry answered, as if he could
scarcely look at me.  "You to talk large of him, my Lady
Castlewood, while you are doing of his heart into small wittles!
Well, I did believe, if no one else, that you were a straightforward
one."

"And what am I doing that is crooked now?"

"Well, not to say crooked, Miss 'Rema; no, no.  Only onconsistent,
when squared up."

"Uncle Sam, you're a puzzle to me to-day.  What is inconsistent?
What is there to square up?"

He fetched a long breath, and looked wondrous wise.  Then, as if
his main object was to irritate me, he made a long stride, and
said, "Soup's a-bilin now."

"Let it boil over, then.  You must say what you mean.  Oh, Uncle
Sam, I only want to do the right!"

"I dessay.  I dessay.  But have you got the pluck, miss?  Our
little missy would 'a done more than that.  But come to be great
lady--why, they take another tune.  With much mind, of course it
might be otherwise.  But none of 'em have any much of that to
spare."

"Your view is a narrow one," I replied, knowing how that would
astonish him.  "You judge by your own experience only; and to do
that shows a sad want of breadth, as the ladies in England express
it."

The Sawyer stared, and then took off his hat, and then felt all
about for his spectacles.  The idea of being regarded by a "female"
from a larger and loftier point of view, made a new sensation in
his system.

"Yes," I continued, with some enjoyment, "let us try to look
largely at all things, Uncle Sam.  And supposing me capable of
that, what is the proper and the lofty course to take?"

He looked at me with a strange twinkle in his eyes, and with three
words discomfited me--"Pop the question."

Much as I had heard of woman's rights, equality of body and mind
with man, and superiority in morals, it did not appear to me that
her privilege could be driven to this extent.  But I shook my head
till all my hair came down; and so if our constitutional right of
voting by color was exercised, on this occasion it claimed the
timid benefit of ballot.

With us a suggestion, for the time discarded, has often double
effect by-and-by; and though it was out of my power to dream of
acting up to such directions, there could be no possible harm in
reviewing such a theory theoretically.

Now nothing beyond this was in my thoughts, nor even so much as
that (safely may I say), when Firm and myself met face to face on
the third day after Uncle Sam's ideas.  Our little caravan, of
which the Sawyer was the captain, being bound for Blue River and
its neighborhood, had quitted the Sacramento track by a fork on the
left not a league from the spot where my father had bidden adieu to
mankind.  And knowing every twist and turn of rock, our drivers
brought us at the camping-time almost to the verge of chaparral.

I knew not exactly how far we were come, but the dust-cloud of
memory was stirring, and though mountains looked smaller than they
used to look, the things done among them seemed larger.  And
wandering forth from the camp to think, when the evening meal was
over, lo! there I stood in that selfsame breach or portal of the
desert in which I stood once by my father's side, with scared and
weary eyes, vainly seeking safety's shattered landmark.  The time
of year was different, being the ripe end of October now; but
though the view was changed in tint, it was even more impressive.
Sombre memories, and deep sense of grandeur, which is always sad,
and solemn lights, and stealing shadows, compassed me with
thoughtfulness.  In the mouth of the gorge was a gray block of
granite, whereupon I sat down to think.

Old thoughts, dull thoughts, thoughts as common as the clouds that
cross the distant plain, and as vague as the wind that moves them--
they please and they pass, and they may have shed kindly influence,
but what are they?  The life that lies before us is, in some way,
too, below us, like yon vast amplitude of plain; but it must be
traversed foot by foot, and laboriously travailed, without the
cloudy vaporing or the high-flown meditation.  And all that must be
done by me, alone, with none to love me, and (which for a woman is
so much worse) nobody ever to have for my own, to cherish, love,
and cling to.

Tier upon tier, and peak over peak, the finest mountains of the
world are soaring into the purple firmament.  Like northern lights,
they flash, or flush, or fade into a reclining gleam; like ladders
of heaven, they bar themselves with cloudy air; and like heaven
itself, they rank their white procession.  Lonely, feeble, puny, I
look up with awe and reverence; the mind pronounces all things
small compared with this magnificence.  Yet what will all such
grandeur do--the self-defensive heart inquires--for puny, feeble,
lonely me?

Before another shadow deepened or another light grew pale, a slow,
uncertain step drew near, and by the merest chance it happened to
be Ephraim Gundry's.  I was quite surprised, and told him so; and
he said that he also was surprised at meeting me in this way.
Remembering how long I had been here, I thought this most
irrational, but checked myself from saying so, because he looked so
poorly.  And more than that, I asked him kindly how he was this
evening, and smoothed my dress to please his eye, and offered him a
chair of rock.  But he took no notice of all these things.

I thought of the time when he would have behaved so very
differently from this, and nothing but downright pride enabled me
to repress vexation.  However, I resolved to behave as kindly as if
he were his own grandfather.

"How grand these mountains are!" I said.  "It must do you good to
see them again.  Even to me it is such a delight.  And what must it
be to you, a native?"

"Yes, I shall wander from them no more.  How I wish that I had
never done so?"

"Have men less courage than women?" I asked, with one glance at his
pale worn face.  "I owe you the debt of life; and this is the place
to think and speak of it.  I used to talk freely of that, you know.
You used to like to hear me speak; but now you are tired of that,
and tired of all the world as well, I fear."

"No, I am tired of nothing, except my own vile degradation.  I am
tired of my want of spirit, that I can not cast my load.  I am
tired of my lack of reason, which should always guide a man.  What
is the use of mind or intellect, reasoning power, or whatever it is
called, if the whole of them can not enable a man to hold out
against a stupid heart?"

"I think you should be proud," I said, while trembling to approach
the subject which never had been touched between us, "at having a
nature so sensitive.  Your evil chance might have been any body's,
and must of course have been somebody's.  But nobody else would
have taken it so--so delightfully as you have done!"

"Delightfully!  Is that the word you use?  May I ask who gets any
delight from it?"

"Why, all who hate the Southern cause," I replied, with a sudden
turn of thought, though I never had meant to use the word.  "Surely
that needs no explanation."

"They are delighted, are they?  Yes, I can very well believe it.
Narrow-minded bigots!  Yes, they are sure to be delighted.  They
call it a just visitation, of course, a righteous retribution.  And
they hope I may never get over it."

"I pray you to take it more gently," I said; "they are very good
men, and wish you no harm.  But they must have their own opinions;
and naturally they think them just."

"Then all their opinions are just wrong.  They hope to see me go
down, to my grave.  They shall not have that pleasure.  I will
outlive every old John Brown of them.  I did not care two cents to
live just now.  Henceforth I will make a point of it.  If I cannot
fight for true freedom any more, having ruined it perhaps already,
the least I can do is to give no more triumph to its bitter
enemies.  I will eat and drink, and begin this very night.  I
suppose you are one of them, as you put their arguments so neatly.
I suppose you consider me a vile slave-driver?"

"You are very ill," I said, with my heart so full of pity that
anger could not enter; "you are very ill, and very weak.  How could
you drive the very best slave now--even such a marvel as Uncle
Tom?"

Firm Gundry smiled; on his lean dry face there shone a little
flicker, which made me think of the time when he bought a jest-
book, published at Cincinnati, to make himself agreeable to my
mind.  And little as I meant it, I smiled also, thinking of the way
he used to come out with his hard-fought jokes, and expect it.

"I wish you were at all as you used to be," he said, looking at me
softly through the courage of his smile, "instead of being such a
grand lady."

"And I wish you were a little more like yourself," I answered,
without thinking; "you used to think always there was nobody like
me."

"Suppose that I am of the same opinion still?  Tenfold, fiftyfold,
a millionfold?"

"To suppose a thing of that sort is a little too absurd, when you
have shown no sign of it."

"For your own dear sake I have shown no sign.  The reason of that
is too clear to explain."

"Then how stupid I must be not to see an atom of it!"

"Why, who would have any thing to say to me--a broken-down man, a
fellow marked out for curses, one who hates even the sight of
himself?  The lowest of the low would shun me."

He turned away from me, and gazed back toward the dismal,
miserable, spectral desert; while I stood facing the fruitful,
delicious, flowery Paradise of all the world.  I thought of the
difference in our lots, and my heart was in misery about him.  Then
I conquered my pride and my littleness and trumpery, and did what
the gentle sweet Eve might have done.  And never have I grieved for
that action since.

With tears on my cheeks quite undissembled, and a breast not
ashamed of fluttering, I ran to Firm Gundry, and took his right
hand, and allowed him no refuge from tender wet eyes.  Then before
he could come to see the meaning of this haste--because of his very
high discipline--I was out of his distance, and sitting on a rock,
and I lifted my eyes, full of eloquence, to his; then I dropped
them, and pulled my hat forward, and said, as calmly as was
possible, "I have done enough.  The rest remains with you, Firm
Gundry."

The rest remained with him.  Enough that I was part of that rest;
and if not the foundation or crown of it, something desirous to be
both, and failing (if fail it ever does) from no want of trial.
Uncle Sam says that I never fail at all, and never did fail in any
thing, unless it was when I found that blamed nugget, for which we
got three wagon-loads of greenbacks; which (when prosperity at last
revives) will pay perhaps for greasing all twelve wheels.

Jowler admits not that failure even.  As soon as he recovered from
canine dementia, approaching very closely to rabies, at seeing me
in the flesh once more (so that the Sierra Nevada rang with
avalanches of barking), he tugged me to the place where his teeth
were set in gold, and proved that he had no hydrophobia.  His teeth
are scanty now, but he still can catch a salmon, and the bright
zeal and loyalty of his soft brown eyes and the sprightly elevation
of his tail are still among dogs as pre-eminent as they are to
mankind inimitable.



Now the war is past, and here we sit by the banks of the soft Blue
River.  The early storm and young conflict of a clouded life are
over.  Still out of sight there may be yet a sea of troubles to
buffet with; but it is not merely a selfish thought that others
will face it with me.  Dark mysteries have been cleared away by
being confronted bravely; and the lesson has been learned that life
(like California flowers) is of infinite variety.  This little
river, ten steps wide, on one side has all lupins, on the other
side all larkspurs.  Can I tell why?  Can any body?  Can even
itself, so full of voice and light, unroll the reason?

Behind us tower the stormy crags, before us spread soft tapestry of
earth and sweep of ocean.  Below us lies my father's grave, whose
sin was not his own, but fell on him, and found him loyal.  To him
was I loyal also, as a daughter should be; and in my lap lies my
reward--for I am no more Erema.



THE END.








End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Erema, by R. D. Blackmore





This eBook was produced by Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.



BERGSON AND HIS PHILOSOPHY

BY

J. ALEXANDER GUNN, M. A.,
FELLOW OF THE UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL

WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY
ALEXANDER MAIR, M. A.,
PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL




CONTENTS


      PREFACE

      INTRODUCTION

   I. LIFE OF BERGSON

  II. THE REALITY OF CHANGE

 III. PERCEPTION

  IV. MEMORY

   V. THE RELATION OF SOUL AND BODY

  VI. TIME-TRUE AND FALSE

 VII. FREEDOM OF THE WILL

VIII. EVOLUTION

  IX. THE GOSPEL OF INTUITION

   X. ETHICAL AND POLITICAL IMPLICATIONS

  XI. RELATION TO RELIGION AND THEOLOGY

 XII. REFLECTIONS

      APPENDIX: BIBLIOGRAPHY

      INDEX




PREFACE

The aim of this little work is practical, and it is put forth in the
hope that it may be useful to the general reader and to the student of
philosophy as an introduction and guide to the study of Bergson's
thought. The war has led many to an interest in philosophy and to a
study of its problems. Few modern thinkers will be found more
fascinating, more suggestive and stimulating than Bergson, and it is
hoped that perusal of the following pages will lead to a study of the
writings of the philosopher himself. This is a work whose primary aim is
the clear exposition of Bergson's ideas, and the arrangement of chapters
has been worked out strictly with that end in view. An account of his
life is prefixed. An up-to-date bibliography is given, mainly to meet
the needs of English readers; all the works of Bergson which have
appeared in England or America are given, and the comprehensive list of
articles is confined to English and American publications. The
concluding chapters endeavour to estimate the value of Bergson's thought
in relation to Politics (especially Syndicalism), Ethics, Religion, and
the development of thought generally.

My thanks are due to Professor Mair, Professor of Philosophy in the
University of Liverpool, for having read the MS. while in course of
preparation, for contributing an introduction, for giving some helpful
criticism and suggestions, and, what is more, for stimulus and
encouragement given over several years of student life.

Professor Bergson has himself expressed his approval of the general form
of treatment, and I am indebted to him for information on a number of
points. To Dr. Gillespie, Professor of Philosophy at Leeds, I am
indebted for a discussion of most of the MS. following the reading of
it. My thanks are also due to Miss Margaret Linn, whose energetic and
careful assistance in preparing the MS. for the press was invaluable. I
wish also to acknowledge kindness shown in supplying information on
certain points in connexion with the bibliography by Mr. F. C.
Nicholson, Librarian of the University of Edinburgh, by Mr. R. Rye,
Librarian to the University of London, and by the University of London
Press. I am grateful to Professor Bergson and to the Delegates of the
Oxford University Press for permission to quote from La Perception du
Changement, the lectures given at Oxford. Further I must acknowledge
permission accorded to me by the English publishers of Bergson's works
to quote passages directly from these authorized translations--To
Messrs. Geo. Allen & Unwin, Ltd. (Time and Free Will and Matter and
Memory), to Messrs. Macmillan & Co., Ltd. (Creative Evolution, Laughter,
Introduction to Metaphysics), and to T. Fisher Unwin, Ltd. (Dreams).
Through the kindness of M. Louis Michaud, the Paris publisher, I have
been enabled to reproduce (from his volume of selections, Henri Bergson:
Choix de textes et etude de systeme philosophique, Gillouin) a
photograph of Bergson hitherto unpublished in this country.

J.A.G.

THE UNIVERSITY, LIVERPOOL
March, 1920




INTRODUCTION

The stir caused in the civilized world by the writings of Bergson,
particularly during the past decade, is evidenced by the volume of the
stream of exposition and comment which has flowed and is still flowing.
If the French were to be tempted to set up, after the German manner, a
Bergson-Archiv they would be in no embarrassment for material, as the
Appendix to this book--limited though it wisely is--will show. Mr. Gunn,
undaunted by all this, makes a further, useful contribution in his
unassuming but workmanlike and well-documented account of the ideas of
the distinguished French thinker. It is designed to serve as an
introduction to Bergson's philosophy for those who are making their
first approach to it, and as such it can be commended.

The eager interest which has been manifested in the writings of M.
Bergson is one more indication, added to the many which history
provides, of the inextinguishable vitality of Philosophy. When the man
with some important thought which bears upon its problems is
forthcoming, the world is ready, indeed is anxious, to listen. Perhaps
there is no period in recorded time in which the thinker, with something
relevant to say on the fundamental questions, has had so large and so
prepared an audience as in our own day. The zest and expectancy with
which men welcome and listen to him is almost touching; it has its
dangerous as well as its admirable aspects. The fine enthusiasm for the
physical and biological sciences, which is so noble an attribute of the
modern mind, has far from exhausted itself, but the almost boundless
hope which for a time accompanied it has notably abated. The study of
the immediate problems centring round the concepts of matter, life, and
energy goes on with undiminished, nay, with intensified, zeal, but in a
more judicious perspective. It begins to be noticed that, far from
leading us to solutions which will bring us to the core of reality and
furnish us with a synthesis which can be taken as the key to experience,
it is carrying the scientific enquirer into places in which he feels the
pressing need of Philosophy rather than the old confidence that he is on
the verge of abolishing it as a superfluity. The former hearty and self-
assured empiricism of science is giving way before the outcome of its
own logic and a new and more promising spirit of reflection on its own
"categories" is abroad. Things are turning out to be very far from what
they seemed. The physicists have come to a point where, it may be to
their astonishment, they often find themselves talking in a way which is
suspiciously like that of the subjective idealist. They have made the
useful discovery that if you sink your shaft deep enough in your search
for reality you come upon Mind. Here they are in a somewhat unfamiliar
region, in which they may possibly find that other instruments and other
methods than those to which they have been accustomed are required. At
any rate, they and the large public which hangs upon their words show a
growing inclination to be respectful to the philosopher and an anxiety
(sometimes an uncritical anxiety) to hear what he has to say.

No one needs to be reminded of the ferment which is moving in the world
of social affairs, of the obscure but powerful tendencies which are
forcing society out of its grooves and leaving it, aspiring but dubious,
in new and uncharted regions. This may affect different minds in
different ways. Some regret it, others rejoice in it; but all are aware
of it. Time-honoured political and economic formulae are become "old
clothes" for an awakened and ardent generation, and before the new
garments are quite ready; the blessed word "reconstruction" is often
mentioned. Men are not satisfied that society has really developed so
successfully as it might have done; many believe that it finds itself in
a cul-de-sac. But what is to be done? The experienced can see that many
of the offered reforms are but the repetition of old mistakes which will
involve us in the unhappy cycle of disillusion and failure. It is not to
be wondered at, therefore, if men everywhere are seeking for a sign, a
glimpse of a scheme of life, a view of reality, a hint of human destiny
and the true outcome of human effort, to be an inspiration and a guide
to them in their pathetic struggle out of the morass in which they, too
obviously, are plunged. If Philosophy has anything to say which is to
the point, then let Philosophy by all means say it. They are ready to
attend. They may indeed expect too much from it, as those who best grasp
the measure of Philosophy's task would be the first to urge.

This is the opportunity of the charlatan. Puzzled and half-desperate, we
strongly feel the influence of the need to believe, are prone to listen
to any gospel. The greater its air of finality and assurance the
stronger is its appeal. But it is the opportunity also of the serious
and competent thinker, and it is fortunate for the world that one of M.
Bergson's quality is forthcoming. He is too wise a man, he knows the
history of human thought too well, he realizes too clearly the extent of
the problem to pretend that his is the last word or that he has in his
pocket the final solution of the puzzle of the universe and the one and
only panacea for human distresses. But he has one of the most subtle and
penetrating intellects acting in and upon the world at this moment, and
is more worthy of attention than all the charlatans. That he has
obtained for himself so great an audience is one of the most striking
and hopeful signs of the present time.

It is the more impressive inasmuch as Bergson cannot be said to be an
easy author. The originality and sweep of his conceptions, the fine and
delicate psychological analysis in which he is so adept and which is
necessary for the development of his ideas--e.g., in his exposition of
duree--make exacting demands upon those readers who wish to closely
follow his thought. An interesting fact is that this is realized most of
all by those who come to Bergson with a long process of philosophical
discipline behind them. It is not surprising when we remember what he is
trying to do, namely, to induce philosophical thought to run in new
channels. The general reader has here an advantage over the other,
inasmuch as he has less to unlearn. In the old words, unless we become
as little children we cannot enter into this kingdom; though it is true
that we do not remain as little children once entry is made. This is a
serious difficulty for the hard-bitten philosopher who at considerable
pains has formed conceptions, acquired a technique, and taken an
orientation towards life and the universe which he cannot dismiss in a
moment. It says much for the charitable spirit of Bergson's fellow-
philosophers that they have given so friendly and hospitable a reception
to his disturbing ideas, and so essentially humane a man as he must have
been touched by this. The Bahnbrecher has his troubles, no doubt, but so
also have those upon whose minds he is endeavouring to operate.
Reinhold, one of Kant's earliest disciples, ruefully stated, according
to Schopenhauer's story, that it was only after having gone through the
Critique of Pure Reason five times with the closest and most scrupulous
attention that he was able to get a grasp of Kant's real meaning. Now,
after the lapse of a century and a half, Kant to many is child's play
compared with Bergson, who differs more fundamentally from Kant than the
Scoto-German thinker did from Leibniz and Hume. But this need not alarm
the general reader who, innocent of any very articulate philosophical
preconceptions, may indeed find in the very "novelty" of Bergson's
teaching a powerful attraction, inasmuch as it gives effective
expression to thoughts and tendencies moving dimly and half-formed in
the consciousness of our own epoch, felt rather than thought. In this
sense Bergson may be said to have produced a "philosophy for the times."
In one respect Bergson has a marked advantage over Kant, and indeed over
most other philosophers, namely, in his recognized masterly control over
the instrument of language. There is a minimum of jargon, nothing turgid
or crabbed. He reminds us most, in the skill and charm of his
expression, of Plato and Berkeley among the philosophers. He does not
work with so fine and biting a point as his distinguished countryman and
fellow-philosopher, Anatole France, but he has, nevertheless, a burin at
command of remarkable quality. He is a master of the succinct and
memorable phrase in which an idea is etched out for us in a few strokes.
Already, in his lifetime, a number of terms stamped with the impress of
Bergson's thought have passed into international currency. In this
connexion, has it been remarked that while an Englishman gave to the
French the term "struggle for life," a Frenchman has given to us the
term elan vital? It is worthy of passing notice and gives rise to
reflections on the respective national temperaments, fanciful perhaps,
but interesting. It is not, however, under the figure of the etcher's
art or of the process of the mint that we can fully represent Bergson's
resources of style. These suggest staccato effects, hard outlines, and
that does not at all represent the prose of this writer. It is a fine,
delicately interwoven, tissue-like fabric, pliant and supple. If one
were in the secret of M. Bergson's private thoughts, it might be
discovered that he does not admire his style so much as others do, for
his whole manner of thought must, one suspects, have led him often to
attempt to express the inexpressible. The ocean of life, that fluide
bienfaisant in which we are immersed, has no doubt often proved too
fluid even for him. "Only the understanding has a language," he almost
ruefully declares in L'Evolution creatrice; and the understanding is,
for him, compared with intuition peu de chose. Yet we can say that in
what he has achieved his success is remarkable. The web of language
which he weaves seems to fit and follow the movements of his thought as
the skin ripples over the moving muscles of the thoroughbred. And this
is not an accidental or trivial fact. M. Bergson may possibly agree with
Seneca that "too much attention to style does not become a philosopher,"
but the quality of his thought and temperament does not allow him to
express himself otherwise than lucidly. Take this, almost at random, as
a characteristic example. It must be given, of course, in the original:

L'intelligence humaine, telle que nous la representons, n'est point du
tout celle que nous montrait Platon dans l'allegorie de la caverne. Elle
n'a pas plus pour fonction de regarder passer des ombres vaines que de
contempler, en se retournant derriere elle, l'astre eblouissant. Elle a
autre chose a faire. Atteles comme des boeufs de labour, a une lourde
tache, nous sentons le jeu de nos muscles et de nos articulations, le
poids de la charrue et la resistance du sol: agir et se savoir agir,
entrer en contact avec la realite et meme la vivre, mais dans la measure
seulement ou elle interesse l'oeuvre qui s'accomplit et le sillon qui se
creuse, voila la fonction de l'intelligence humaine."

That is sufficiently clear; we may legitimately doubt whether it is an
adequate account of the function of the human intelligence, but we
cannot be in any doubt as to what the view is; and more than that, once
we have become acquainted with it, we are not likely to forget it.

For the student as yet unpractised in philosophical reflection,
Bergson's skill and clarity of statement, his fertility in illustration,
his frequent and picturesque use of analogy may be a pitfall. It all
sounds so convincing and right, as Bergson puts it, that the critical
faculty is put to sleep. There is peril in this, particularly here,
where we have to deal with so bold and even revolutionary a doctrine. If
we are able to retain our independence of judgment we are bound sooner
or later, in spite of Bergson's persuasiveness, to have our misgivings.
After all, we may begin to reflect, he has been too successful, he has
proved too much. In attempting to use, as he was bound to do, the
intelligence to discredit the intelligence he has been attempting the
impossible. He has only succeeded in demonstrating the authority, the
magisterial power, of the intelligence. No step in Philosophy can be
taken without it. What are Life, Consciousness, Evolution, even
Movement, as these terms are employed by Bergson, but the symbolization
of concepts which on his own showing are the peculiar products of the
human understanding or intelligence? It seems, indeed, on reflection,
the oddest thing that Philosophy should be employed in the service of an
anti-intellectual, or as it would be truer to call it a supra-
intellectual, attitude. Philosophy is a thinking view of things. It
represents the most persistent effort of the human intelligence to
satisfy its own needs, to attempt to solve the problems which it has
created: in the familiar phrase, to heal the wounds which it has itself
made. The intellect, therefore, telling itself that it is incompetent
for this purpose, is a strange, and not truly impressive, spectacle.

We are not enabled to recover from the sense of impotency thus created
by being referred to "intuition." Bergson is not the first to try this
way out. It would be misleading, no doubt, to identify him with the
members of the Scottish School of a hundred years ago or with Jacobi; he
reaches his conclusion in another way, and that conclusion is
differently framed; nevertheless, in essence there is a similarity, and
Hegel's comments[Footnote: Smaller Logic, Wallace's translation, c. v.]
on Bergson's forerunners will often be found to have point with
reference to Bergson himself.

It is hardly conceivable that any careful observer of human experience
would deny the presence and power of intuition in that experience. The
fact is too patent. Many who would not give the place to intuition which
is assigned to it by Bergson would be ready to say that there may be
more in the thrilling and passionate intuitive moments than Philosophy,
after an age-long and painful effort, has been able to express. All
knowledge, indeed, may be said to be rooted in intuition. Many a thinker
has been supported and inspired through weary years of inquiry and
reflection by a mother-idea which has come to him, if not unsought yet
uncompelled, in a flash of insight. But that is the beginning, not the
end, of his task. It is but the raw material of knowledge, knowledge in
potentia. To invert the order is to destroy Philosophy not to serve it,
is, indeed, a mere counsel of desperation. An intuitive Philosophy so-
called finds itself sooner or later, generally sooner, in a blind alley.
Practically, it gives rise to all kinds of crude and wasteful effort. It
is not an accident that Georges Sorel in his Reflexions sur la Violence
takes his "philosophy" from Bergson or, at least, leans on him. There
are intuitions and intuitions, as every wise man knows, as William James
once ruefully admitted after his adventures with nitrous oxide, or as
the eaters of hashish will confess. To follow all our intuitions would
lead us into the wildest dervish dance of thought and action and leave
us spent and disheartened at the end. "Agnosticism" would be too mild a
term for the result. Our intuitions have to be tried and tested; there
is a thorny and difficult path of criticism to be traversed before we
can philosophically endorse them and find peace of mind. What Hoffding
says is in a sense quite true: "When we pass into intuition we pass into
a state without problems." But that is, as Hoffding intends us to
understand, not because all problems are thereby solved, but because
they have not yet emerged. If we consent to remain at that point, we
refuse to make the acquaintance of Philosophy; if we recognize the
problems that are really latent there, we soon realize that the business
of Philosophy is yet to be transacted.

The fact is that in this part of his doctrine--and it is an important
part--the brilliant French writer, in his endeavours to make
philosophizing more concrete and practical, makes it too abstract.
Intuition is not a process over against and quite distinct from
conceptual thought. Both are moments in the total process of man's
attempt to come to terms with the universe, and too great emphasis on
either distorts and falsifies the situation in which we find ourselves
on this planet. The insistence on intuition is doubtless due, at bottom,
to Bergson's admiration for the activity in the creative artist. The
border-line between Art and Philosophy becomes almost an imaginary line
with him. In the one case as in the other we have, according to him, to
get inside the object by a sort of sympathy. True, there is this
difference, he says, that aesthetic intuition achieves only the
individual--which is doubtful--whereas the philosophic intuition is to
be conceived as a "recherche orientee dans la meme sens que l'art,
indeed, but qui prendrait pour objet la vie en general." He fails to
note, it may be observed, that the expression of the aesthetic
intuition, that is to say, Art, is always fixed and static. This in view
of other aspects of his doctrine is remarkable. But apart from this
attempt to practically identify Art and Philosophy--a hopeless attempt--
there is, of course, available as a means of explanation the well-known
and not entirely deplorable tendency of the protestant and innovator to
overstate his case, to bring out by strong emphasis the aspect with
which he is chiefly concerned and which he thinks has been unduly
neglected. This, as hinted, has its merits, and not only or chiefly for
Philosophy, but also, and perhaps primarily, for the conduct of life. If
he convinces men, should they need convincing, that they cannot be saved
by the discursive reason alone, he will have done a good service to his
generation, and to the philosophers among them who may (though they
ought not to) be tempted to ignore the intuitive element in experience.

The same tendency to over-emphasis can be observed elsewhere. It is
noticeable, for instance, in his discussions of Change, which are so
marked and important a feature in his writings. His Philosophy has been
called, with his approval apparently, the Philosophy of Change, though
it might have been called, still more truly and suggestively, the
Philosophy of Creation. It is this latter phase of it which has so
enormously interested and stimulated the world. As to his treatment of
Change, it reveals Bergson in one of his happiest moods. It is difficult
to restrain one's praise in speaking of the subtle and resourceful way
in which he handles this tantalizing and elusive question. It is a
stroke of genius. The student of Philosophy, of course, at once thinks
of Heraclitus; but Bergson is not merely another Heraclitus any more
than he is just an echo of Jacobi. He places Change in a new light,
enables us to grasp its character with a success which, if he had no
other claim to remembrance, would ensure for him an honourable place in
the History of Philosophy. In the process he makes but a mouthful of
Zeno and his eternal puzzles. But, as Mr. Gunn also points
out,[Footnote: See p. 142.] Change cannot be the last word in our
characterization of Reality. Pure Change is not only unthinkable--that
perhaps Bergson would allow--but it is something which cannot be
experienced. There must be points of reference--a starting point and an
ending point at least. Pure Change, as is the way with "pure" anything,
turns into its contradictory. Paradoxical though it may seem, it ends as
static. It becomes the One and Indivisible. This, at least, was
recognized by Heraclitus and is expressed by him in his figure of the
Great Year.

It is not my purpose, however, to usurp the function of the author of
this useful handbook to Bergson. The extent of my introductory remarks
is an almost involuntary tribute to the material and provocative nature
of Bergson's discussions, just as the frequent use by the author of this
book of the actual words of Bergson are a tribute to the excellence and
essential rightness of his style. The Frenchman, himself a free and
candid spirit, would be the last to require unquestioning docility in
others. He knows that thereby is the philosophic breath choked out of
us. If we read him in the spirit in which he would wish to be read, we
shall find, however much we may diverge from him on particular issues,
that our labour has been far from wasted. He undoubtedly calls for
considerable effort from the student who takes him, as he ought to be
taken, seriously; but it is effort well worth while. He, perhaps, shines
even more as a psychologist than as a philosopher--at least in the time-
honoured sense. He has an almost uncanny introspective insight and, as
has been said, a power of rendering its result in language which creates
in the reader a sense of excitement and adventure not to be excelled by
the ablest romancer. Fadaises, which are to be met with in philosophical
works as elsewhere, are not to be frequently encountered in his
writings. There is always the fresh breeze of original thought blowing
here. He is by nature as well as by doctrine the sworn foe of
conventionality. Though he may not give us all we would wish, in our
haste to be all-wise, let us yet be grateful to him for this, that he
has the purpose and also the power to shake us out of complacency, to
compel us to recast our philosophical account. In this he is supremely
serviceable to his generation, and is deserving of the gratitude of all
who care for Philosophy. For, while Philosophy cannot die, it may be
allowed to fall into a comatose condition; and this is the unpardonable
sin.
                                   ALEXANDER MAIR

    LIVERPOOL UNIVERSITY


This huge vision of time and motion, of a mighty world which is always
becoming, always changing, growing, striving, and wherein the word of
power is not law, but life, has captured the modern imagination no less
than the modern intellect. It lights with its splendour the patient
discoveries of science. It casts a new radiance on theology, ethics and
art. It gives meaning to some of our deepest instincts, our strangest
and least explicable tendencies. But above and beyond all this, it lifts
the awful weight which determinism had laid upon our spirits and fills
the future with hope; for beyond the struggle and suffering inseparable
from life's flux, as we know it, it reports to us, though we may not
hear them, "the thunder of new wings."

                                                 Evelyn Underhill



CHAPTER I

LIFE OF BERGSON


Birth and education--Teaches at Clermont-Ferrand--Les donnees immediates
de la conscience--Matiere et Memoire--Chair of Greek Philosophy, then of
Modern Philosophy, College de France--L'Evolution creatrice--Relations
with William James--Visits England and America--Popularity--Neo-
Catholics and Syndicalists--Election to Academie francaise--War-work--
L'Energie spirituelle.


Bergson's life has been the quiet and uneventful one of a French
professor, the chief landmarks in it being the publication of his three
principal works, first, in 1889, the Essai sur les donnees immediates de
la conscience, then Matiere et Memoire in 1896, and L'Evolution
creatrice in 1907. On October 18th, 1859, Henri Louis Bergson was born
in Paris in the Rue Lamartine, not far from the Opera House.[Footnote:
He was not born in England as Albert Steenbergen erroneously states in
his work, Henri Bergsons Intuitive Philosophie, Jena, 1909, p. 2, nor in
1852, the date given by Miss Stebbing in her Pragmatism and French
Voluntarism.] He is descended from a prominent Jewish family of Poland,
with a blend of Irish blood from his mother's side. His family lived in
London for a few years after his birth, and he obtained an early
familiarity with the English language from his mother. Before he was
nine years old his parents crossed the Channel and settled in France,
Henri becoming a naturalized citizen of the Republic.

In Paris from 1868 to 1878 he attended the Lycee Fontaine, now known as
the Lycee Condorcet. While there he obtained a prize for his scientific
work and also won a prize when he was eighteen for the solution of a
mathematical problem. This was in 1877, and his solution was published
the following year in Annales de Mathematiques. It is of interest as
being his first published work. After some hesitation over his career,
as to whether it should lie in the sphere of the sciences or that of
"the humanities," he decided in favour of the latter, and when nineteen
years of age, he entered the famous Ecole Normale Superieure. While
there he obtained the degree of Licencie-es-Lettres, and this was
followed by that of Agrege de philosophie in 1881.

The same year he received a teaching appointment at the Lycee in Angers,
the ancient capital of Anjou. Two years later he settled at the Lycee
Blaise-Pascal in Clermont-Ferrand, chief town of the Puy de Dome
department, whose name is more known to motorists than to philosophers.
The year after his arrival at Clermont-Ferrand he displayed his ability
in "the humanities" by the publication of an excellent edition of
extracts from Lucretius, with a critical study of the text and the
philosophy of the poet (1884), a work whose repeated editions are
sufficient evidence of its useful place in the promotion of classical
study among the youth of France. While teaching and lecturing in this
beautiful part of his country (the Auvergne region), Bergson found time
for private study and original work. He was engaged on his Essai sur les
donnees immediates de la conscience. This essay, which, in its English
translation, bears the more definite and descriptive title, Time and
Free Will, was submitted, along with a short Latin Thesis on Aristotle,
for the degree of Docteur-es-Lettres, to which he was admitted by the
University of Paris in 1889. The work was published in the same year by
Felix Alcan, the Paris publisher, in his series La Bibliotheque de
philosophie contemporaine.

It is interesting to note that Bergson dedicated this volume to Jules
Lachelier, then ministre de l'instruction publique, who was an ardent
disciple of Ravaisson and the author of a rather important philosophical
work Du fondement de l'Induction (1871), who in his view of things
endeavoured "to substitute everywhere force for inertia, life for death,
and liberty for fatalism."[Footnote: Lachelier was born in 1832,
Ravaisson in 1813. Bergson owed much to both of these teachers of the
Ecole Normale Superieure. Cf. his memorial address on Ravaisson, who
died in 1900. (See Bibliography under 1904.)]

Bergson now settled again in Paris, and after teaching for some months
at the Municipal College, known as the College Rollin, he received an
appointment at the Lycee Henri-Quatre, where he remained for eight
years. In 1896 he published his second large work, entitled Matiere et
Memoire. This rather difficult, but brilliant, work investigates the
function of the brain, undertakes an analysis of perception and memory,
leading up to a careful consideration of the problems of the relation of
body and mind. Bergson, we know, has spent years of research in
preparation for each of his three large works. This is especially
obvious in Matiere et Memoire, where he shows a very thorough
acquaintance with the extensive amount of pathological investigation
which has been carried out in recent years, and for which France is
justly entitled to very honourable mention.

In 1898 Bergson became Maitre de conferences at his Alma Mater, L'Ecole
Normale Superieure, and was later promoted to a Professorship. The year
1900 saw him installed as Professor at the College de France, where he
accepted the Chair of Greek Philosophy in succession to Charles
L'Eveque. The College de France, founded in 1530, by Francois I, is less
ancient, and until recent years has been less prominent in general
repute than the Sorbonne, which traces back its history to the middle of
the thirteenth century. Nevertheless, it is one of the intellectual
headquarters of France, indeed of the whole world. While the Sorbonne is
now the seat of the University of Paris, the College is an independent
institution under the control of the Ministre de l'Instruction publique.
The lectures given by the very eminent professors who fill its forty-
three chairs are free and open to the general public, and are attended
mainly by a large number of women students and by the senior students
from the University. The largest lecture room in the College was given
to Bergson, but this became quite inadequate to accommodate his hearers.

At the First International Congress of Philosophy, which was held in
Paris, during the first five days of August, 1900, Bergson read a short,
but important, paper, Sur les origines psychologiques de notre croyance
a la loi de causalite. In 1901 Felix Alcan published in book form a work
which had just previously appeared in the Revue de Paris entitled Le
Rire, one of the most important of his minor productions. This essay on
the meaning of the Comic was based on a lecture which he had given in
his early days in the Auvergne. The study of it is essential to an
understanding of Bergson's views of life, and its passages dealing with
the place of the artistic in life are valuable. In 1901 he was elected
to the Academie des Sciences morales et politiques, and became a member
of the Institute. In 1903 he contributed to the Revue de metaphysique et
de morale a very important essay entitled Introduction a la
metaphysique, which is useful as a preface to the study of his three
large books.

On the death of Gabriel Tarde, the eminent sociologist, in 1904, Bergson
succeeded him in the Chair of Modern Philosophy. From the 4th to the 8th
of September of that year he was at Geneva attending the Second
International Congress of Philosophy, when he lectured on Le Paralogisme
psycho-physiologique, or, to quote its new title, Le Cerveau et la
Pensee: une illusion philosophique. An illness prevented his visiting
Germany to attend the Third Congress held at Heidelberg.

His third large work--his greatest book--L'Evolution creatrice, appeared
in 1907, and is undoubtedly, of all his works, the one which is most
widely known and most discussed. It constitutes one of the most profound
and original contributions to the philosophical consideration of the
theory of Evolution. Un livre comme L'Evolution creatrice, remarks
Imbart de la Tour, n'est pas seulment une oeuvre, mais une date, celle
d'une direction nouvelle imprimee a la pensee. By 1918, Alcan, the
publisher, had issued twenty-one editions, making an average of two
editions per annum for ten years. Since the appearance of this book,
Bergson's popularity has increased enormously, not only in academic
circles, but among the general reading public.

He came to London in 1908 and visited William James, the American
philosopher of Harvard, who was Bergson's senior by seventeen years, and
who was instrumental in calling the attention of the Anglo-American
public to the work of the French professor. This was an interesting
meeting and we find James' impression of Bergson given in his Letters
under date of October 4, 1908. "So modest and unpretending a man but
such a genius intellectually! I have the strongest suspicions that the
tendency which he has brought to a focus, will end by prevailing, and
that the present epoch will be a sort of turning point in the history of
philosophy."

As in some quarters erroneous ideas prevail regarding both the
historical and intellectual relation between James and Bergson, it may
be useful to call attention to some of the facts here. As early as 1880
James contributed an article in French to the periodical La Critique
philosophique, of Renouvier and Pillon, entitled Le Sentiment de
l'Effort.[Footnote: Cf. his Principles of Psychology, Vol. II., chap
xxvi.] Four years later a couple of articles by him appeared in Mind:
What is an Emotion?[Footnote: Mind, 1884, pp. 188-205.] and On some
Omissions of Introspective Psychology.[Footnote: Mind, 1884, pp. 1-26.]
Of these articles the first two were quoted by Bergson in his work of
1889, Les donnees immediates de la conscience. In the following years
1890-91 appeared the two volumes of James' monumental work, The
Principles of Psychology, in which he refers to a pathological
phenomenon observed by Bergson. Some writers taking merely these dates
into consideration, and overlooking the fact that James' investigations
had been proceeding since 1870, registered from time to time by various
articles which culminated in The Principles, have mistakenly assigned to
Bergson's ideas priority in time.[Footnote: For example A. Chaumeix:
William James (Revue des Deux Mondes, Oct, 1910), and J. Bourdeau:
Nouvelles modes en philosophie, Journal de Debats, Feb., 1907. Cf.
Flournoy: La philosophie de William James. (Eng. Trans. Holt and James,
pp. 198-206).] On the other hand insinuations have been made to the
effect that Bergson owes the germ-ideas of his first book to the 1884
article by James On Some Omissions of Introspective Psychology, which he
neither refers to nor quotes. This particular article deals with the
conception of thought as a stream of consciousness, which intellect
distorts by framing into concepts. We must not be misled by parallels.
Bergson has replied to this insinuation by denying that he had any
knowledge of the article by James when he wrote Les donnees immediates
de la conscience.[Footnote: Relation a William James et a James Ward.
Art. in Revue philosophique, Aug., 1905, lx., p. 229.] The two thinkers
appear to have developed independently until almost the close of the
century. In truth they are much further apart in their intellectual
position than is frequently supposed.[Footnote: The reader who desires
to follow the various views of the relation of Bergson and James will
find the following works useful. Kallen (a pupil of James): William
James and Henri Bergson: a study in contrasting theories of life.
Stebbing: Pragmatism and French Voluntarism. Caldwell: Pragmatism and
Idealism (last chap). Perry: Present Philosophical Tendencies. Boutroux:
William James (Eng. Tr.). Flournoy: La philosophie de James (Eng. Tr.).
And J. E. Turner: An Examination of William James' Philosophy.] Both
have succeeded in appealing to audiences far beyond the purely academic
sphere, but only in their mutual rejection of "intellectualism" as final
is there real harmony or unanimity between them. It will not do to press
too closely analogies between the Radical Empiricism of the American and
the Doctrine of Intuition of the Frenchman. Although James obtains a
certain priority in point of time in the development and enunciation of
his ideas, we must remember that he confessed that he was baffled by
many of Bergson's notions. James certainly neglected many of the deeper
metaphysical aspects of Bergson's thought, which did not harmonize with
his own, and are even in direct contradiction. In addition to this
Bergson is no pragmatist, for him "utility," so far from being a test of
truth, is rather the reverse, a synonym for error.

Nevertheless, William James hailed Bergson as an ally very
enthusiastically. Early in the century (1903) we find him remarking in
his correspondence: "I have been re-reading Bergson's books, and nothing
that I have read since years has so excited and stimulated my thoughts.
I am sure that that philosophy has a great future, it breaks through old
cadres and brings things into a solution from which new crystals can be
got." The most noteworthy tributes paid by him to Bergson were those
made in the Hibbert Lectures (A Pluralistic Universe), which James gave
at Manchester College, Oxford, shortly after he and Bergson met in
London. He there remarked upon the encouragement he had received from
Bergson's thought, and referred to the confidence he had in being "able
to lean on Bergson's authority." [Footnote: A Pluralistic Universe, pp.
214-15. Cf. the whole of Lecture V. The Compounding of Consciousness,
pp. 181-221, and Lecture VI. Bergson and His Critique of
Intellectualism, pp. 225-273.] "Open Bergson, and new horizons loom on
every page you read. It is like the breath of the morning and the song
of birds. It tells of reality itself, instead of merely reiterating what
dusty-minded professors have written about what other previous
professors have thought. Nothing in Bergson is shop-worn or at second-
hand." [Footnote: Lecture VI., p. 265.] The influence of Bergson had led
him "to renounce the intellectualist method and the current notion that
logic is an adequate measure of what can or cannot be." [Footnote: A
Pluralistic Universe, p. 212.] It had induced him, he continued, "TO
GIVE UP THE LOGIC, squarely and irrevocably" as a method, for he found
that "reality, life, experience, concreteness, immediacy, use what word
you will, exceeds our logic, overflows, and surrounds it." [Footnote: A
Pluralistic Universe, p. 212.]

Naturally, these remarks, which appeared in book form in 1909, directed
many English and American readers to an investigation of Bergson's
philosophy for themselves. A certain handicap existed in that his
greatest work had not then been translated into English. James, however,
encouraged and assisted Dr. Arthur Mitchell in his preparation of the
English translation of L'Evolution creatrice. In August of 1910 James
died. It was his intention, had he lived to see the completion of the
translation, to introduce it to the English reading public by a
prefatory note of appreciation. In the following year the translation
was completed and still greater interest in Bergson and his work was the
result. By a coincidence, in that same year (1911), Bergson penned for
the French translation of James' book, Pragmatism,[Footnote: Le
Pragmatisme: Translated by Le Brun. Paris, Flammarion.] a preface of
sixteen pages, entitled Verite et Realite. In it he expressed
sympathetic appreciation of James' work, coupled with certain important
reservations.

In April (5th to 11th) Bergson attended the Fourth International
Congress of Philosophy held at Bologna, in Italy, where he gave a
brilliant address on L'Intuition philosophique. In response to
invitations received he came again to England in May of that year, and
has paid us several subsequent visits. These visits have always been
noteworthy events and have been marked by important deliverances. Many
of these contain important contributions to thought and shed new light
on many passages in his three large works, Time and Free Will, Matter
and Memory, and Creative Evolution. Although necessarily brief
statements, they are of more recent date than his books, and thus show
how this acute thinker can develop and enrich his thought and take
advantage of such an opportunity to make clear to an English audience
the fundamental principles of his philosophy.

He visited Oxford and delivered at the University, on the 26th and 27th
of May, two lectures entitled La Perception du Changement, which were
published in French in the same year by the Clarendon Press. As Bergson
has a delightful gift of lucid and brief exposition, when the occasion
demands such treatment, these lectures on Change form a most valuable
synopsis or brief survey of the fundamental principles of his thought,
and serve the student or general reader alike as an excellent
introduction to the study of the larger volumes. Oxford honoured its
distinguished visitor by conferring upon him the degree of Doctor of
Science. Two days later he delivered the Huxley Lecture at Birmingham
University, taking for his subject Life and Consciousness. This
subsequently appeared in The Hibbert Journal (Oct., 1911), and since
revised, forms the first essay in the collected volume L'Energie
spirituelle or Mind-Energy. In October he was again in England, where he
had an enthusiastic reception, and delivered at London University
(University College) four lectures on La Nature de l'Ame. In 1913 he
visited the United States of America, at the invitation of Columbia
University, New York, and lectured in several American cities, where he
was welcomed by very large audiences. In February, at Columbia
University, he lectured both in French and English, taking as his
subjects: Spiritualite et Liberte and The Method of Philosophy. Being
again in England in May of the same year, he accepted the Presidency of
the British Society for Psychical Research, and delivered to the Society
an impressive address: Fantomes des Vivants et Recherche psychique.

Meanwhile, his popularity increased, and translations of his works began
to appear in a number of languages, English, German, Italian, Danish,
Swedish, Magyar, Polish and Russian. In 1914 he was honoured by his
fellow-countrymen in being elected as a member of the Academie
francaise. He was also made President of the Academie des Sciences
morales et politiques, and in addition he became Officier de la Legion
d'Honneur, and Officier de l'Instruction publique. He found disciples of
many varied types, and in France movements such as Neo-Catholicism or
Modernism on the one hand and Syndicalism on the other, endeavoured to
absorb and to appropriate for their own immediate use and propaganda
some of the central ideas of his teaching. That important continental
organ of socialist and syndicalist theory, Le Mouvement socialiste,
suggested that the realism of Karl Marx and Prudhon is hostile to all
forms of intellectualism, and that, therefore, supporters of Marxian
socialism should welcome a philosophy such as that of Bergson. Other
writers, in their eagerness, asserted the collaboration of the Chair of
Philosophy at the College de France with the aims of the Confederation
Generale du Travail and the Industrial Workers of the World. It was
claimed that there is harmony between the flute of personal
philosophical meditation and the trumpet of social revolution. These
statements are considered in the chapter dealing with the political
implications of Bergson's thought.

While social revolutionaries were endeavouring to make the most out of
Bergson, many leaders of religious thought, particularly the more
liberal-minded theologians of all creeds, e.g., the Modernists and Neo-
Catholic Party in his own country, showed a keen interest in his
writings, and many of them endeavoured to find encouragement and
stimulus in his work. The Roman Catholic Church, however, which still
believes that finality was reached in philosophy with the work of Thomas
Aquinas, in the thirteenth century, and consequently makes that
mediaeval philosophy her official, orthodox, and dogmatic view, took the
step of banning Bergson's three books by placing them upon the Index
(Decree of June 1, 1914).

It was arranged by the Scottish Universities that Bergson should deliver
in 1914 the famous Gifford Lectures, and one course was planned for the
spring and another for the autumn. The first course, consisting of
eleven lectures, under the title of The Problem of Personality, was
delivered at Edinburgh University in the Spring of that year.

Then came the War. The course of lectures planned for the autumn months
had to be abandoned. Bergson has not, however, been silent during the
conflict, and he has given some inspiring addresses. As early as
November 4th, 1914, he wrote an article entitled La force qui s'use et
celle qui ne s'use pas, which appeared in that unique and interesting
periodical of the poilus, Le Bulletin des Armees de la Republique
Francaise. A presidential address delivered in December, 1914, to the
Academie des sciences morales et politiques, had for its title La
Significance de la Guerre. This, together with the preceding article,
has been translated and published in England as The Meaning of the War.
Bergson contributed also to the publication arranged by The Daily
Telegraph in honour of the King of the Belgians, King Albert's Book
(Christmas, 1914). In 1915 he was succeeded in the office of President
of the Academie des Sciences morales et politiques by M. Alexandre
Ribot, and then delivered a discourse on The Evolution of German
Imperialism. Meanwhile he found time to issue at the request of the
Minister of Public Instruction a delightful little summary of French
Philosophy. Bergson did a large amount of travelling and lecturing in
America during the war. He was there when the French Mission under M.
Viviani paid a visit in April and May of 1917, following upon America's
entry into the conflict. M. Viviani's book La Mission francaise en
Amerique, 1917, contains a preface by Bergson.

Early in 1918 he was officially received by the Academie francaise,
taking his seat among "The Select Forty" as successor to M. Emile
Ollivier, the author of the large and notable historical work L'Empire
liberal. A session was held in January in his honour at which he
delivered an address on Ollivier.

In the War, Bergson saw the conflict of Mind and Matter, or rather of
Life and Mechanism; and thus he shows us in action the central idea of
his own philosophy. To no other philosopher has it fallen, during his
lifetime, to have his philosophical principles so vividly and so
terribly tested. We are too close to the smoking crucible of war to be
aware of all that has been involved in it. Even those who have helped in
the making of history are too near to it to regard it historically, much
less philosophically. Yet one cannot help feeling that the defeat of
German militarism has been the proof in action of the validity of much
of Bergson's thought.

As many of Bergson's contributions to French periodicals are not readily
accessible, he agreed to the request of his friends that these should be
collected and published in two volumes. The first of these was being
planned when war broke out. The conclusion of strife has been marked by
the appearance of this delayed volume in 1919. It bears the title
L'Energie spirituelle: Essais et Conferences. The noted expounder of
Bergson's philosophy in England, Dr. Wildon Carr, has prepared an
English Translation under the title Mind-Energy. The volume opens with
the Huxley Memorial Lecture of 1911, Life and Consciousness, in a
revised and developed form under the title Consciousness and Life. Signs
of Bergson's growing interest in social ethics and in the idea of a
future life of personal survival are manifested. The lecture before the
Society for Psychical Research is included, as is also the one given in
France, L'Ame et le Corps, which contains the substance of the four
London lectures on the Soul. The seventh and last article is a reprint
of Bergson's famous lecture to the Congress of Philosophy at Geneva in
1904, Le paralogisme psycho-physiologique, which now appears as Le
Cerveau et la Pensee: une illusion philosophique. Other articles are on
the False Recognition, on Dreams, and Intellectual Effort. The volume is
a most welcome production and serves to bring together what Bergson has
written on the concept of mental force, and on his view of "tension" and
"detension" as applied to the relation of matter and mind.

It is Bergson's intention to follow up this collection shortly by
another on the Method of Philosophy, dealing with the problems of
Intuition. For this he is preparing an important introduction, dealing
with recent developments in philosophy. This second volume will include
the Lectures on The Perception of Change given at Oxford, The
Introduction to Metaphysics, and the brilliant paper Philosophical
Intuition. In June, 1920, Cambridge honoured him with the degree of
Doctor of Letters. In order that he may be able to devote his full time
to the great new work he is preparing on ethics, religion, and
sociology, Bergson has been relieved of the duties attached to the Chair
of Modern Philosophy at the College de France. He still holds this
chair, but no longer delivers lectures, his place being taken by his
brilliant pupil Edouard Le Roy. Living with his wife and daughter in a
modest house in a quiet street near the Porte d'Auteuil in Paris,
Bergson is now working as keenly and vigorously as ever.




CHAPTER II

THE REALITY OF CHANGE


Fundamental in Bergson's philosophy. We are surrounded by changes--we
ourselves change--Belief in change--Simplicity of change--Immobility is
composite and relative--All movement is indivisible. The fallacy of
"states"--Intellect loves the static--Life is dynamic--Change, the very
stuff of life, constitutes reality.


Throughout the history of thought we find that the prevailing
philosophies have always reflected some of the characteristics of their
time. For instance, in those periods when, as historians tell us, the
tendency towards unity, conformity, system, order, and authority was
strong, we find philosophy reflecting these conditions by emphasizing
the unity of the universe; while in those periods in which established
order, system, and authority were disturbed, the philosophy of the time
emphasizes the idea of multiplicity as opposed to the unity of the
universe, laying stress on freedom, creative action, spontaneity of
effort, and the reality of change. There can be little doubt that this
is the chief reason why Bergson's philosophy has found such an amount of
acceptance in a comparatively short period. The response to his thought
may be explained very largely by this, that already his fundamental
ideas existed, although implicit, unexpressed, in the minds of a great
multitude of thoughtful people, to whom the static conceptions of the
universe were inadequate and false.

We must not, on the other hand, overlook the fact that Bergson's
statements have in their turn given an emphasis to all aspects of
thought which take account of the reality of change and which realize
its importance in all spheres. A writer on world politics very aptly
reminds us that "life is change, and a League of Peace that aimed at
preserving peace by forbidding change would be a tyranny as oppressive
as any Napoleonic dictatorship. These problems called for periodic
change. The peril of our future is that, while the need for change is
instinctively grasped by some peoples as the fundamental fact of world-
politics, to perceive it costs others a difficult effort of
thought."[Footnote: H. N. Brailsford on Peace and Change, Chap. 3 of his
Book A League of Nations.] However difficult it may be for some
individuals and for some nations to grasp it, the great fact is there--
the reality of change is undeniable.

Bergson himself would give to his philosophy the title, The Philosophy
of Change, and this for a very good reason, for the principle of Change
and an insistence on its reality lies at the root of his
thought.[Footnote: He suggested this as a sub-title to Dr. H. Wildon
Carr for his little work Henri Bergson (People's Books). Dr. Wildon
Carr's later and larger work bears this as its full title.] "We know
that everything changes," we find him saying in his London lectures,
"but it is mere words. From the earliest times recorded in the history
of philosophy, philosophers have never stopped saying that everything
changes; but, when the moment came for the practical application of this
proposition, they acted as if they believed that at the bottom of things
there is immobility and invariability. The greatest difficulties of
philosophy are due to not taking account of the fact that Change and
Movement are universal. It is not enough to say that everything changes
and moves--we must believe it."[Footnote: Second of the four lectures on
La Nature de l'Ame delivered at London University, Oct. 21, 1911. From
report in The Times for Oct. 23, 1911, p. 4.] In order to think Change
and to see it, a whole mass of prejudices must be swept aside--some
artificial, the products of speculative philosophy, and others the
natural product of common-sense. We tend to regard immobility as a more
simple affair than movement. But what we call immobility is really
composite and is merely relative, being a relation between movements.
If, for example, there are two trains running in the same direction on
parallel lines at exactly the same speed, opposite one another, then the
passengers in each train, when observing the other train, will regard
the trains as motionless. So, generally, immobility is only apparent,
Change is real. We tend to be misled by language; we speak, for
instance, of 'the state of things'; but what we call a state is the
appearance which a change assumes in the eyes of a being who, himself,
changes according to an identical or analogous rhythm. "Take, for
example," says Bergson, "a summer day. We are stretched on the grass, we
look around us--everything is at rest--there is absolute immobility--no
change. But the grass is growing, the leaves of the trees are developing
or decaying--we ourselves are growing older all the time. That which
seems rest, simplicity itself, is but a composite of our ageing with the
changes which takes place in the grass, in the leaves, in all that is
around us. Change, then, is simple, while 'the state of things' as we
call it, is composite. Every stable state is the result of the co-
existence between that change and the change of the person who perceives
it."[Footnote: La Nature de l'Ame, lecture 2.]

It is an axiom in the philosophy of Bergson that all change or movement
is indivisible. He asserts this expressly in Matter and
Memory,[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 246 ff. (Fr. p. 207 ff).] and
again in the second lecture on The Perception of Change he deals with
the indivisibility of movement somewhat fully, submitting it to a
careful analysis, from which the following quotation is an extract--"My
hand is at the point A. I move it to the point B, traversing the
interval AB. I say that this movement from A to B is a simple thing--
each of us has the sensation of this, direct and immediate. Doubtless,
while we carry our hand over from A to B, we say to ourselves that we
could stop it at an intermediate point, but then that would no longer be
the same movement. There would then be two movements, with an interval
of rest. Neither from within, by the muscular sense, nor from without,
by sight, should we have the same perception. If we leave our movement
from A to B such as it is, we feel it undivided, and we must declare it
indivisible. It is true that when I look at my hand, going from A to B,
traversing the interval AB, I say to myself 'the interval AB can be
divided into as many parts as I wish, therefore the movement from A to B
can be divided into as many parts as I like, since this movement covers
this interval,' or, again, 'At each moment of its passing, the moving
object passes over a certain point, therefore we can distinguish in the
movement as many stopping-places as we wish--therefore the movement is
infinitely divisible.' But let us reflect on this for a minute. How can
the movement possibly coincide with the space which it traverses? How
can the moving coincide with the motionless? How can the object which
moves be said to 'be' at any point in its path? It passes over, or, in
other words, it could 'be' there. It would 'be' there if it stopped
there, but, if it stopped there, it is no longer the same movement with
which we are dealing. It is always at one bound that a trajectory is
traversed when, on its course, there is no stoppage. The bound may last
a few seconds, or it may last for weeks, months, or years, but it is
unique and cannot be decomposed. Only, when once the passage has been
made, as the path is in space, and space is infinitely divisible, we
picture to ourselves the movement itself as infinitely divisible. We
like to imagine it thus, because, in a movement it is not the change of
position which interests us, it is the positions themselves which the
moving object has left, which it will take up, which it might assume if
it were to stop in its course. We have need of immobility, and the more
we succeed in presenting to ourselves the movement as coinciding with
the space which it traverses, the better we think we understand it.
Really, there is no true immobility, if we imply by that, an absence of
movement."[Footnote: Translated from La Perception du Changement, pp.
19-20.] This immobility of which we have need for the purposes of action
and of practical life, we erect into an absolute reality. It is of
course convenient to our sense of sight to lay hold of objects in this
way; as pioneer of the sense of touch, it prepares our action on the
external world. But, although for all practical purposes we require the
notion of immobility as part of our mental equipment, it does not at all
help us to grasp reality. Then we habitually regard movement as
something superadded to the motionless. This is quite legitimate in the
world of affairs; but when we bring this habit into the world of
speculation, we misconceive reality, we create lightheartedly insoluble
problems, and close our eyes to what is most alive in the real world.
For us movement is one position, then another position, and so on
indefinitely. It is true that we say there must be something else, viz.,
the actual passing across the interval which separates those positions.
But such a conception of Change is quite false. All true change or
movement is indivisible. We, by constructing fictitious states and
trying to compose movement out of them, endeavour to make a process
coincide with a thing--a movement with an immobility. This is the way to
arrive at dilemmas, antinomies, and blind-alleys of thought. The puzzles
of Zeno about "Achilles and the Tortoise" and "The Moving Arrow" are
classical examples of the error involved in treating movement as
divisible.[Footnote: Bergson in Matter and Memory examines Zeno's four
puzzles: "The Dichotomy," "Achilles and the Tortoise," "The Arrow" and
"The Stadium."] If movement is not everything, it is nothing, and if we
postulate, to begin with, that the motionless is real, then we shall be
incapable of grasping reality. The philosophies of Plato, of Aristotle,
and of Plotinus were developed from the thesis that there is more in the
immutable than in the moving, and that it is by way of diminution that
we pass from the stable to the unstable.

The main reason why it is such a difficult matter for us to grasp the
reality of continuous change is owing to the limitations of our
intellectual nature. "We are made in order to act, as much as and more
than in order to think--or, rather, when we follow the bent of our
nature, it is in order to act that we think."[Footnote: Creative
Evolution, p. 313 (Fr. p. 321).] Intellect is always trying to carve out
for itself stable forms because it is primarily fitted for action, and
"is characterized by a natural inability to comprehend life" and grasp
Change.[Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 174 (Fr. p. 179).] Our
intellect loves the solid and the static, but life itself is not static-
-it is dynamic. We might say that the intellect takes views across the
ever-moving scene, snapshots of reality. It acts like the camera of the
cinematograph operator, which is capable only of producing photographs,
successive and static, in a series upon a ribbon. To grasp reality, we
have to do what the cinematograph does with the film--that is, introduce
or rather, re-introduce movement.[Footnote: Creative Evolution, pp. 320-
324 (Fr. pp. 328-332).] The stiff photograph is an abstraction bereft of
movement, so, too, our intellectual views of the world and of our own
nature are static instead of being dynamic. Human life is not made up of
childhood, adolescence, manhood, and old age as "states," although we
tend to speak of it in this way. Life is not a thing, nor the state of a
thing--it is a continuous movement or change. The soul itself is a
movement, not an entity. In the physical world, light, when examined,
proves itself to be a movement. Even physical science, bound, as it
would seem, to assert the fixity and rigidity of matter, is now of the
opinion that matter is not the solid thing we are apt to think it. The
experiments of Kelvin and Lodge and the discovery of radium, have
brought forward a new theory of matter; the old-fashioned base, the
atom, is now regarded as being essentially movement; matter is as
wonderful and mysterious in its character as spirit. Further we must
note that the researches of Einstein, culminating in the formulation of
his general Theory of Relativity and his special Theory of Gravitation,
which are arousing such interest at the present time, threaten very
seriously the older static views of the universe and seem to frustrate
any efforts to find and denote any stability therein.[Footnote: Consult
on this Dr. Einstein's own work of which the translation by R. W. Lawson
is just published: Relativity: The Special and the General Theory.
Methuen, 1920.] In the light of these discoveries, Bergson's views on
the reality of Change seem less paradoxical than they might formerly
have appeared. The reality of Change is, for Bergson, absolute, and on
this, as a fundamental point, he constructs his thought. In conjunction
with his study of Memory, it leads up to his discussions of Real Time
(la duree), of Freedom, and of Creative Evolution. We must then, at the
outset of any study of Bergson's philosophy, obtain a grasp of this
universal 'becoming'--a vision of the reality of Change. Then we shall
realize that Change is substantial, that it constitutes the very stuff
of life. "There are changes, but there are not things that change;
change does not need a support. There are movements, but there are not,
necessarily, constant objects which are moved; movement does not imply
something that is movable."[Footnote: Translated from La Perception du
Changement, Lecture 2, p. 24.]

To emphasize and to illustrate this point, so fundamental in his
thought, Bergson turns to music. "Let us listen," he says, "to a melody,
letting ourselves be swayed by it; do we not have the clear perception
of a movement which is not attached to any mobility--of a change devoid
of anything which changes? The change is self-sufficient, it is the
thing itself. It avails nothing to say that it takes time, for it is
indivisible; if the melody were to stop sooner, it would not be any
longer the same volume of sound, but another, equally indivisible.
Doubtless we have a tendency to divide it and to represent it to
ourselves as a linking together of distinct notes instead of the
uninterrupted continuity of the melody. But why? Simply because our
auditive perception has assumed the habit of saturating itself with
visual images. We hear the melody across the vision which the conductor
of the orchestra can have of it in looking at his score. We represent to
ourselves notes linked on to notes on an imaginary sheet of paper. We
think of a keyboard on which one plays, of the bow of a violin which
comes and goes, of the musicians, each one of whom plays his part in
conjunction with the others. Let us abstract these spatial images; there
remains pure change, self-sufficing, in no way attached to a 'thing'
which changes."[Footnote: Translated from La Perception du Changement,
pp. 24-25.]

We must conceive reality as a continual flux, then immobility will seem
a superficial abstraction hypostatized into states, concepts, and
substances, and the old difficulties raised by the ancients, in regard
to the problem of Change, will vanish, along with the problems attached
to the notion of "substance" in modern thought, because there is nothing
substantial but Change. Apart from Change there is no reality. We shall
see that all is movement, that we ourselves are movement--part of an
elan, a poussee formidable, which carries with it all things and all
creatures, and that in this eternity--not of immutability but of life
and Change--"we live and move and have our being."[Footnote: La
Perception du Changement, concluding paragraph, p. 37.]




CHAPTER III

PERCEPTION


Images as data--Nerves, afferent and efferent, cannot beget images, nor
can the brain give rise to representations--All our perception relative
to action. Denial of this involves the fallacies of Idealism or of
Realism--Perception and knowledge--Physiological data--Zone of
indetermination--"Pure" perception--Memory and Perception.


From the study of Change we are led on to a consideration of the
problems connected with our perception of the external world, which has
its roots in change. These problems have given rise to some very
opposing views--the classic warfare between Realism and Idealism.
Bergson is of neither school, but holds that they each rest on
misconceptions, a wrong emphasis on certain facts. He invites us to
follow him closely while he investigates the problems of Perception in
his own way.

"We will assume for the moment that we know nothing of theories of
matter and theories of spirit, nothing of the discussions as to the
reality or ideality of the external world. Here I am in the presence of
images, in the vaguest sense of the word, images perceived when my
senses are opened to them, unperceived when they are closed. ... Now of
these images there is ONE which is distinct from all the others, in that
I do not know it only from without by perceptions, but from within by
affections; it is my body."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 1 (Fr. p.
1).] Further examination shows me that these affections "always
interpose themselves between the excitations from without and the
movement which I am about to execute."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 1
(Fr. p. 1).] Indeed all seems to take place as if, in this aggregate of
images which I call the universe, nothing really new could happen except
through the medium of certain particular images, the type of which is
furnished me by my body."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 3 (Fr. p. 2).]
Reference to physiology shows in the structure of human bodies afferent
nerves which transmit a disturbance to nerve centres, and also efferent
nerves which conduct from other centres movement to the periphery, thus
setting in motion the body in whole or in part. When we make enquiries
from the physiologist or the psychologist with regard to the origin of
these images and representations, we are sometimes told that, as the
centrifugal movements of the nervous system can evoke movement of the
body, so the centripetal movements--at least some of them--give rise to
the representation, mental picture, or perception of the external world.
Yet we must remember that the brain, the nerves, and the disturbance of
the nerves are, after all, only images among others. So it is absurd to
state that one image, say the brain, begets the others, for "the brain
is part of the material world, but the material world is not part of the
brain. Eliminate the image which bears the name 'material world,' and
you destroy, at the same time, the brain and the cerebral disturbances
which are parts of it. Suppose, on the contrary, that these two images,
the brain and the cerebral disturbance, vanish; ex hypothesi you efface
only these, that is to say, very little--an insignificant detail from an
immense picture--the picture in its totality, that is to say, the whole
universe remains. To make of the brain the condition on which the whole
image depends is a contradiction in terms, since the brain is, by
hypothesis, a part of this image."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 4
(Fr. pp. 3-4).] The data of perception are external images, then my
body, and changes brought about by my body in the surrounding images.
The external images transmit movement to my body, it gives back movement
to them. My body or part of my body, i.e., my brain, could not beget a
whole or part of my representation of the external world. "You may say
that my body is matter or that it is an image--the word is of no
importance. If it is matter, it is a part of the material world, and the
material world consequently exists around it and without it. If it is an
image--that image can give but what has been put into it, and since it
is, by hypothesis, the image of my body only, it would be absurd to
expect to get from it that of the whole universe. My body, an object
destined to move other objects, is then a centre of action; it cannot
give birth to a representation."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 5 (Fr.
p. 4).] The body, however, is privileged, since it appears to choose
within certain limits certain reactions from possible ones. It exercises
a real influence on other images, deciding which step to take among
several which may be possible. It judges which course is advantageous or
dangerous to itself, by the nature of the images which reach it. The
objects which surround my body reflect its possible action upon them.
All our perception has reference, primarily, to action, not to
speculation.[Footnote: Cf. Creative Evolution, p. 313 (Fr. p. 321).] The
brain centres are concerned with motor reaction rather than with
conscious perception, "the brain is an instrument of action and not of
representation."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 83 (Fr. p. 69).]
Therefore, in the study of the problems of perception, the starting-
point should be action and not sensation. All the confusions,
inconsistencies and absurdities of statement, made in regard to our
knowledge of the external world, have here their origin. Many
philosophers and psychologists "show us a brain, analogous in its
essence to the rest of the material universe, consequently an image, if
the universe is an image. Then, since they want the internal movements
of this brain to create or determine the representation of the whole
material world--an image infinitely greater than that of the cerebral
vibrations--they maintain that these molecular movements, and movement
in general, are not images like others, but something which is either
more or less than an image--in any case is of another nature than an
image--and from which representation will issue as by a miracle. Thus
matter is made into something radically different from representation,
something of which, consequently, we have no image; over against it they
place a consciousness empty of images, of which we are unable to form
any idea. Lastly, to fill consciousness, they invent an incomprehensible
action of this formless matter upon this matterless thought."[Footnote:
Matter and Memory, p. 9 (Fr. pp. 7-8).]

The problem at issue between Realists and Idealists turns on the fact
that there are two systems of images in existence. "Here is a system of
images which I term 'my perception of the universe,' and which may be
entirely altered by a very slight change in the privileged image--my
body. This image occupies the centre. By it all the others are
conditioned; at each of its movements everything changes as though by a
turn of a kaleidoscope. Here, on the other hand, are the same images,
but referred each one to itself, influencing each other no doubt, but in
such a manner that the effect is always in proportion to the cause; this
is what I term the 'universe.'"[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 12 (Fr.
p. 10).] The question is, "How is it that the same images can belong at
the same time to two different systems--the one in which each image
varies for itself and in the well-defined measure that it is patient of
the real action of surrounding images--the other in which all change for
a single image and in the varying measure that they reflect the eventual
action of this privileged image?"[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 13
(Fr. p. 11).] We may style one the system of science, the other the
system of consciousness. Now, Realism and Idealism are both incapable of
explaining why there are two such systems at all. Subjective Idealism
derives the system of science from that of consciousness, while
materialistic Realism derives the system of consciousness from that of
science. They have, however, this common meeting-place, that they both
regard Perception as speculative in character--for each of them "to
perceive" is to "know." Now this is just the postulate which Bergson
disputes. The office of perception, according to him, is to give us, not
knowledge, but the conditions necessary for action.[Footnote: Notre
croyance a la loi de causalite (Revue de metaphysique et de morale,
1900), p. 658.] A little examination shows us that distance stands for
the degree in which other bodies are protected, as it were, against the
action of my body against them, and equally too for the degree in which
my body is protected from them.[Footnote: Le Souvenir du present et la
fausse reconnaissance in L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 117-161 (Mind-
Energy), or Revue philosophique, 1908, pp. 561-593.] Perception is
utilitarian in character and has reference to bodily action, and we
detach from all the images coming to us those which interest us
practically.

Bergson then examines the physiological aspects of the perceptual
process. Beginning with reflex actions and the development of the
nervous system, he goes on to discuss the functions of the spinal cord
and the brain. He finds in regard to these last two that "there is only
a difference of degree--there can be no difference in kind--between what
is called the perceptive faculty of the brain and the reflex functions
of the spinal cord. The cord transforms into movements the stimulation
received, the brain prolongs into reactions which are merely nascent,
but in the one case as in the other, the function of the nerve substance
is to conduct, to co-ordinate, or to inhibit movements.[Footnote: Matter
and Memory, pp. 10-11 (Fr. p. 9).] As we rise in the organic series we
find a division of physiological labour. Nerve cells appear, are
diversified and tend to group themselves into a system; at the same time
the animal reacts by more varied movements to external stimulation. But
even when the stimulation received is not at once prolonged into
movement, it appears merely to await its occasion; and the same
impression which makes the organism aware of changes in the environment,
determines it or prepares it to adapt itself to them. No doubt there is
in the higher vertebrates a radical distinction between pure automatism,
of which the seat is mainly in the spinal cord, and voluntary activity
which requires the intervention of the brain. It might be imagined that
the impression received, instead of expanding into more movements
spiritualizes itself into consciousness. But as soon as we compare the
structure of the spinal cord with that of the brain, we are bound to
infer that there is merely a difference of complication, and not a
difference in kind, between the functions of the brain and the reflex
activity of the medullary system."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, pp. 17-
18 (Fr. p. 15).] The brain is no more than a kind of central telephone
exchange, its office is to allow communication or to delay it. It adds
nothing to what it receives, it is simply a centre where perceptions get
into touch with motor mechanisms. Sometimes the function of the brain is
to conduct the movement received to a chosen organ of reaction, while at
other times it opens to the movement the totality of the motor tracks.
The brain appears as an instrument of analysis in regard to movements
received by it, but an instrument of selection in regard to the
movements executed. In either case, its office is limited to the
transmission and division of movements. In the lower organisms,
stimulation takes the form of immediate contact. For example, a jelly-
fish feels a danger when anything touches it, and reacts immediately.
The more immediate the reaction has to be, the more it resembles simple
contact. Higher up the scale, sight and hearing enable the individual to
enter into relation with a greater number of objects and with objects at
a distance. This gives rise to an amount of uncertainty, "a zone of
indetermination," where hesitation and choice come into play. Hence,
says Bergson: "Perception is master of space in the exact measure in
which action is master of time."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 23 (Fr.
p. 19).]

In the paper read before the First International Congress of Philosophy
at Paris in 1900, on Our Belief in the Law of Causality,[Footnote: Notre
croyance a la loi de causalite (Revue de metaphysique et de morale,
Sept., 1900, pp. 655-660).] Bergson showed that it has its root in the
co-ordination of our tactile impressions with our visual impressions.
This co-ordination becomes a continuity which generates motor habits or
tendencies to action.

There now comes up for consideration the question as to why this
relation of the organism, to more or less distinct objects, takes the
particular form of conscious perception, and further, why does
everything happen as if this consciousness were born of the internal
movements of the cerebral substance? To answer this question, we must
turn to perceptual processes, as these occur in our everyday life. We
find at once that "there is no perception which is not full of memories.
With the immediate and present data of our senses, we mingle a thousand
details out of our past experience."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 24
(Fr. p. 20).] To such an extent is this true that the immediate data of
perception serve as a sign to bring much more to the mind. Psychological
experiments have conclusively proved that we never actually perceive all
that we imagine to be there. Hence arise illusions, examples of which
may be easily thought of--incorrect proof-reading is one, while another
common one is the mistake of taking one person for another because of
some similarity of dress. What is actually perceived is but a fraction
of what we are looking at and acts normally as a suggestion for the
whole. Now, although it is true that, in practice, Perception and Memory
are never found absolutely separate in their purity, yet it is necessary
to distinguish them from one another absolutely in any investigation of
a psychological nature. If, instead of a perception impregnated with
memory-images, nothing survived from the past, then we should have
"pure" perception, not coloured by anything in the individual's past
history, and so a kind of impersonal perception. However unreal it may
seem, such a perception is at the root of our knowledge of things and
individual accidents are merely grafted on to this impersonal or "pure"
perception. Just because philosophers have overlooked it, and because
they have failed to distinguish it from that which memory contributes to
it, they have regarded Perception as a kind of interior and subjective
vision, differing from Memory only by its greater intensity and not
differing in nature. In reality, however, Perception and Memory differ
fundamentally.

Our conscious perception is just our power of choice, reflected from
things as though by a mirror, so that representation arises from the
omission of that in the totality of matter which has no bearing on our
needs and consequently no interest for us. "There is for images merely a
difference of degree and not of kind between 'being' and 'being
consciously perceived.'"[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 30 (Fr. p.
25).] Consciousness--in regard to external perception--is explained by
this indeterminateness and this choice. "But there is in this necessary
poverty of conscious perception, something that is positive, that
foretells spirit; it is, in the etymological sense of the word,
discernment.'"[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 31 (Fr. p. 26).] The
chief difficulty in dealing with the problems of Perception, is to
explain "not how Perception arises, but how it is limited, since it
should be the image of the whole and is in fact reduced to the image of
that which interests you."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 34 (Fr. p.
29).] We only make an insuperable difficulty if we imagine Perception to
be a kind of photographic view of things, taken from a fixed point by
that special apparatus which is called an organ of perception--a
photograph which would then be developed in the brain-matter by some
unknown chemical and psychical process. "Everything happens as though
your perception were a result of the internal motions of the brain and
issued in some sort from the cortical centres. It could not actually
come from them since the brain is an image like others, enveloped in the
mass of other images, and it would be absurd that the container should
issue from the content. But since the structure of the brain is like the
detailed plan of the movements among which you have the choice, and
since that part of the external images which appears to return upon
itself, in order to constitute perception, includes precisely all the
points of the universe which these movements could affect, conscious
perception and cerebral movement are in strict correspondence. The
reciprocal dependence of these two terms is therefore simply due to the
fact that both are functions of a third, which is the indetermination of
the Will."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 35 (Fr. p. 29).]

Moreover, we must recognize that the image is formed and perceived in
the object, not in the brain, even although it would seem that rays of
light coming from a point P are perceived along the path of the sensori-
motor processes in the brain and are afterwards projected into P. There
is not, however, an unextended image which forms itself in consciousness
and then projects itself into the position P. Really, the point P, and
the rays which it emits, together with the retina and nervous elements
affected in the process of perception, all form a single whole. The
point P is an indispensable factor in this whole and it is really in P
and not anywhere else that the image of P is formed and
perceived.[Footnote: Cf. Matter and Memory, p. 37 (Fr p. 31), also paper
entitled Notre croyance a la loi de causalite in the Revue de
metaphysique et de morale, 1900, p. 658.]

In the field of "pure" perception, that is to say, perception
unadulterated by the addition of memory-images, there can arise no image
without an object. "Sensation is essentially due to what is actually
present."[Footnote: Le Souvenir du present et la fausse reconnaissance,
p. 579 of Revue philosophique, Dec., 1908; also L'Energie spirituelle,
p. 141 (Mind-Energy).] Exactly how external stimuli, such as rays of a
certain speed and length, come to give us a certain image, e.g., the
sensation "red" or the sound of "middle C," we shall never understand.
"No trace of the movements themselves can be actually perceived in the
sensation which translates them."[Footnote: Time and Free Will, pp. 34-
35 (Fr. p. 26).] We only make trouble by regarding sensations in an
isolated manner and attempting to construct Perception from them. "Our
sensations are to our perceptions, that which the real action of our
body is to its possible or virtual action."[Footnote: Matter and Memory,
p. 58 (Fr. p. 48).] Thus, everything happens as if the external images
were reflected by our body into surrounding space. This is why the
surface of the body, which forms the common limit of the external and
internal, is the only portion of space which is both perceived and felt.
Just as external objects are perceived by me where they are, in
themselves and not in me, so my affective states (e.g. pains--which are
local, unavailing efforts) are experienced where they occur, in my body.
Consider the system of images which we term the "external world." My
body is one of them and around it is grouped the representation, i.e.,
its eventual influence on others. Within it occurs affection, i.e., its
actual effort upon itself. It is because of this distinction between
images and sensations that we affirm that the totality of perceived
images subsists, even if our body disappears, whereas we cannot
annihilate our body without destroying our sensations. In practice, our
"pure" perception is adulterated with affection, as well as with
memories. To understand Perception, however, we must--as previously
insisted upon--study it with reference to action. It is false to suppose
"that perception and sensation exist for their own sake; the philosopher
ascribes to them an entirely speculative function,"[Footnote: Matter and
Memory, p. 311 (Fr p. 261).] a proceeding which gives rise to the
fallacies of Realism and Idealism.

It has been said that the choice of perceptions from among images in
general is the effect of a "discernment" which foreshadows spirit. But
to touch the reality of spirit, we must place ourselves at the point
where an individual consciousness continues and retains the past in a
present, enriched by it.[Footnote: See Chapter VI on la duree. Time--
True and False.] Perception we never meet in its pure state; it is
always mingled with memories. The rose has a different scent for you
from that which it has for me, just because the scent of the rose bears
with it all the memories of all the roses we have ever experienced, each
of us individually.[Footnote: Time and Free Will, pp. 161-162 (Fr. p.
124).] Memory, however mingled with Perception, is nevertheless
fundamentally different in character.[Footnote: Le Souvenir du present
et la fausse reconnaissance, Revue philosophique, Dec., 1908, p. 580;
also L'Effort intellectuel, Revue philosophique, Jan., 1902, p. 23;
L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 141 and 197 (Mind-Energy).] "When we pass
from 'pure' Perception to Memory, we definitely abandon matter for
spirit."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 313 (Fr. p. 263).]




CHAPTER IV

MEMORY


Definition--Two forms--memorizing power related to habit; recalling
power or "pure" memory. Is memory a function of the brain?--Pathological
Phenomena. Memory something other than merely a function of the brain.
The "Box" theory--Memory records everything--Dreams--The well-balanced
mind--Memory a manifestation of spirit.


The importance of Memory is recognized by all persons--whether
psychologists or not. At the present time there is a growing interest in
systems of memory-training offered to the public, which aim at mental
efficiency as a means to success in life. Indeed, from the tone of some
advertisements seen in the press, one might be prompted to think that
Memory itself was the sole factor determining success in either a
professional or a business career. Yet, although we are likely to regard
this as a somewhat exaggerated statement, nevertheless we cannot deny
the very great importance of the power of Memory. How often, in everyday
life, we hear people excuse themselves by remarking "My memory failed
me" or "played me false" or, more bluntly, "I forgot all about that."
Without doubt, Memory is a most vital factor, though not the only one in
mental efficiency.[Footnote: The true ideal of mental efficiency must
include power of Will as well as of Memory.] It is an element in mental
life which puzzles both the specialist in psychology and the layman.
"What is this wonderfully subtle power of mind?" "How do we remember?"
Even the mind, untrained in psychological investigation, cannot help
asking such questions in moments of reflection; but for the psychologist
they are questions of very vital significance in his science. For
Bergson, as psychologist, Memory is naturally, a subject of great
importance. We must note, however, that for Bergson, as metaphysician,
it plays an even more important role, since his study of Memory and
conclusions as to its nature lead him on to a discussion of the relation
of soul and body, spirit and matter. His second large work, which
appeared in 1896, bears the title Matiere et Memoire. For him, Memory is
a pivot on which turns a whole scheme of relationships--material and
spiritual. He wrote in 1910 a new introduction for the English
Translation of this work. He there says that "among all the facts
capable of throwing light on the psycho-physiological relation, those
which concern Memory, whether in the normal or the pathological state,
hold a privileged position."[Footnote: Introduction to Matter and
Memory, p. xii.] Let us then, prior to passing on to the consideration
of the problem of the relation of soul and body, examine what Bergson
has to say on the subject of Memory.

At the outset, we may define Memory as the return to consciousness of
some experience, accompanied by the awareness that it has been present
earlier at a definite time and place.[Footnote: The above is to be taken
as a definition of the normal memory. In a subtle psychological analysis
in the paper entitled Le Souvenir du present et la fausse reconnaissance
in L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 117-161 (Mind-Energy), Bergson considers
cases of an abnormal or fictitious memory, coinciding with perception in
rather a strange manner. This does not, however, affect the validity of
the above definition.] Bergson first of all draws attention to a
distinction between two different forms of Memory, the nature of which
will be best brought out by considering two examples. We are fond of
giving to children or young persons at school selections from the plays
of Shakespeare, "to be learned by heart," as we say. We praise the boy
or girl who can repeat a long passage perfectly, and we regard that
scholar as gifted with a good memory. To illustrate the second type of
case, suppose a question to be put to that boy asking him what he saw on
the last half-holiday when he took a ramble in the country. He may, or
may not, be able to tell us much of his adventures on that occasion, for
whatever he can recall is due to a mental operation of a different
character from that which enabled him to learn his lesson. There is here
no question of learning by rote, of memorizing, but of capacity to
recall to mind a past experience. The boy who is clever at memorizing a
passage from Shakespeare may not have a good memory at all for recalling
past events. To understand why this is so we must examine these two
forms of Memory more closely and refer to Bergson's own words: "I study
a lesson, and in order to learn it by heart I read it a first time,
accentuating every line; I then repeat it a certain number of times. At
each repetition there is progress; the words are more and more linked
together, and at last make a continuous whole. When that moment comes,
it is said that I know my lesson by heart, that it is imprinted on my
memory. I consider now how the lesson has been learnt and picture to
myself the successive phases of the process. Each several reading then
recurs to me with its own individuality. It is distinguished from those
which preceded or followed it, by the place which it occupied in time;
in short, each reading stands out before my mind as a definite event in
my history. Again it will be said that these images are recollections,
that they are imprinted on my Memory. The same words then are used in
both cases. Do they mean the same thing? The memory of the lesson which
is remembered, in the sense of learned by heart, has ALL the marks of a
habit. Like a habit, it is acquired by the repetition of the same
effort. Like every habitual bodily exercise, it is stored up in a
mechanism which is set in motion as a whole by an initial impulse, in a
closed system of automatic movements, which succeed each other in the
same order and together take the same length of time. The memory of each
several reading, on the contrary, has NONE of the marks of a habit, it
is like an event in my life; it is a case of spontaneous recollection as
distinct from mere learnt recollection. Now a learnt recollection passes
out of time in the measure that the lesson is better known; it becomes
more and more impersonal, more and more foreign to our past
life."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, pp. 89-90 (Fr. pp. 75-76).] This
quotation makes clear that of these two forms of Memory, it is the power
of spontaneous recollection which is Memory par excellence and
constitutes "real" Memory. The other, to which psychologists usually
have devoted most of their attention in discussing the problem of
Memory, is habit interpreted as Memory, rather than Memory itself.
Having thus made clear this valuable and fundamental distinction--"one
of the best things in Bergson"[Footnote: Bertrand Russell's remark in
his Philosophy of Bergson, p. 7.]--and having shown that in practical
life the automatic memory necessarily plays an important part, often
inhibiting "pure" Memory, Bergson proceeds to examine and criticize
certain views of Memory itself, and endeavours finally to demonstrate to
us what he himself considers it to be.

He takes up the cudgels to attack the view which aims at blending Memory
with Perception, as being of like kind. Memory, he argues, must be
distinguished from Perception, however much we admit (and rightly) that
memories enter into and colour all our perceptions. They are quite
different in their nature. A remembrance is the representation of an
absent object. We distinguish between hearing a faint tap at the door,
and the faint memory of a loud one. We cannot admit the validity of the
statement that there is only a difference of intensity between
Perception and Recollection. "As our perception of a present object is
something of that object itself, our representation of the absent
object, as in Memory, must be a phenomenon of quite other order than
Perception, since between presence and absence there are no degrees, no
intermediate stages."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 315 (Fr. p. 264).]
If we maintain that recollection is merely a weakened form of Perception
we must note the consequences of such a thesis. "If recollection is only
a weakened Perception, inversely, Perception must be something like an
intenser Memory. Now, the germ of English Idealism is to be found here.
This Idealism consists in finding only a difference of degree and not of
kind, between the reality of the object perceived, and the ideality of
the object conceived."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 318 (Fr. p.
267).] The maintenance of such a doctrine involves the further
remarkable contention that "we construct matter from our own interior
states and that perception is only a true hallucination."[Footnote:
Matter and Memory, p 318 (Fr. p. 267).] Such a theory will not harmonize
with the experienced difference between Perceptions and
Memories.[Footnote: Le Souvenir du present et la fausse reconnaissance,
Revue philosophique, Dec., 1908, p. 568; also L'Energie spirituelle
(Mind-Energy).] We do not mistake the perception of a slight sound for
the recollection of a loud noise, as has already been remarked. The
consciousness of a recollection "never occurs as a weak state which we
try to relegate to the past so soon as we become aware of its weakness.
How indeed, unless we already possess the representation of a past,
previously lived, could we relegate to it the less intense psychical
states, when it would be so simple to set them alongside of strong
states as a present experience more confused, beside a present
experience more distinct?"[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 319 (Fr. p.
268).] The truth is that Memory does not consist in a regression from
the present into the past, but on the contrary, in a progress from the
past to the present. Memory is radically distinct from Perception, in
its character.

Bergson then passes on to discuss other views of Memory, and in
particular, those which deal with the nature of Memory and its relation
to the brain. It is stated dogmatically by some that Memory is a
function of the brain. Others claim, in opposition to this, that Memory
is something other than a function of the brain. Between two such
statements as these, compromise or reconciliation is obviously
impossible. It is then for experience to decide between these two
conflicting views. This empirical appeal Bergson does not shirk. He has
made a most comprehensive and intensive study of pathological phenomena
relating to the mental malady known as aphasia. This particular type of
disorder belongs to a whole class of mental diseases known as amnesia.
Now amnesia (in Greek, "forgetfulness") is literally any loss or defect
of the Memory. Aphasia (in Greek "absence of speech") is a total or
partial loss of the power of speech, either in its spoken or written
form. The term covers the loss of the power of expression by spoken
words, but is often extended to include both word-deafness, i.e., the
misunderstanding of what is said, and word-blindness--the inability to
read words. An inability to execute the movements necessary to express
oneself, either by gesture, writing, or speech, is styled "motor
aphasia," to distinguish it from the inability to understand familiar
gestures and written or spoken words, which is known as "sensory-
aphasia." The commonest causes of this disease are lesions, affecting
the special nerve centres, due to haemorrhage or the development of
tumours, being in the one case rapid, in the other a gradual
development. Of course any severe excitement, fright or illness,
involving a disturbance of the normal circulation in the cerebral
centres, may produce asphasia. During the war, it has been one of the
afflictions of a large number of the victims of "shell-shock." But,
whatever be the cause, the patient is reduced mentally to an elementary
state, resembling that of a child, and needs re-educating in the
elements of language.

Now, from his careful study of the pathological phenomena, manifested in
these cases, Bergson draws some very important conclusions in regard to
the nature of Memory and its relation to the brain. In 1896, when he
brought out his work Matiere et Memoire, in Paris, the general view was
against his conclusions and his opinions were ridiculed. By 1910, a
marked change had come about and he was able to refer to this in the new
introduction.[Footnote: See Bibliography, p. 158.] His view was no
longer considered paradoxical. The conception of aphasia, once
classical, universally admitted, believed to be unshakeable, had been
considerably shaken in that period of fourteen years. Localization, and
reference to centres would not, it was found, explain things
sufficiently.[Footnote: The work of Pierre Janet was largely influential
also in bringing about this change of view.] This involved a too rigid
and mechanical conception of the brain as a mere "box," and Bergson
attacks it very forcibly under the name of "the box theory." "All the
arguments," he says, "from fact which may be invoked in favour of a
probable accumulation of memories in the cortical substance, are drawn
from local disorders of memory. But if recollections were really
deposited in the brain, to definite gaps in memory characteristic
lesions of the brain would correspond. Now in those forms of amnesia in
which a whole period of our past existence, for example, is abruptly and
entirely obliterated from memory, we do not observe any precise cerebral
lesion; and on the contrary, in those disorders of memory where cerebral
localization is distinct and certain, that is to say, in the different
types of aphasia, and in the diseases of visual or auditory recognition,
we do not find that certain definite recollections are, as it were, torn
from their seat, but that it is the whole faculty of remembering that is
more or less diminished in vitality, as if the subject had more or less
difficulty in bringing his recollections into contact with the present
situation."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 315 (Fr. pp. 264-265).] But
as it is a fact that the past survives under two distinct forms, viz.,
"motor mechanisms" and "independent recollections," we find that this
explains why "in all cases where a lesion of the brain attacks a certain
category of recollections, the affected recollections do not resemble
each other by all belonging to the same period, or by any logical
relationship to one another, but simply in that they are all auditive or
all visual or all motor. That which is damaged appears to be the various
sensorial or motor areas, or more often still, those appendages which
permit of their being set going from within the cortex rather than the
recollections themselves."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 317 (Fr. p.
266).] Going even further than this, by the study of the recognition of
words, and of sensory-aphasia, Bergson shows that "recognition is in no
way affected by a mechanical awakening of memories that are asleep in
the brain. It implies, on the contrary, a more or less high degree of
tension in consciousness, which goes to fetch pure recollections in pure
memory, in order to materialize them progressively, by contact with the
present perception."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 317 (Fr. p. 266).]

In the face of all this mass of evidence and thoroughness of argument
which Bergson brings forward, we are led to conclude that Memory is
indeed something other than a function of the brain. Criticizing Wundt's
view,[Footnote: As expressed in his Grundzuge der physiologische
psychologie, vol. I., pp. 320-327. See Matter and Memory, p. 164 (Fr. p.
137).]Bergson contends that no trace of an image can remain in the
substance of the brain and no centre of apperception can exist. "There
is not in the brain a region in which memories congeal and accumulate.
The alleged destruction of memories by an injury to the brain is but a
break in the continuous progress by which they actualize
themselves."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 160 (Fr. p. 134).] It is
then futile to ask in what spot past memories are stored. To look for
them in any place would be as meaningless as asking to see traces of the
telephonic message upon the telephone wire.

"Memory," it has been said, "is a faculty which loses nothing and
records everything."[Footnote: Ball, quoted by Rouillard, Les Amnesies,
Paris, 1885, p. 25; Matter and Memory, p. 201 (Fr. p. 168).] This is
only too true, although normally we do not recognize it. But we can
never be sure that we have absolutely forgotten anything. Illness,
producing delirium, may provoke us to speak of things we had thought
were gone beyond recall and which perhaps we even wish were beyond
recall. A somnambulistic state or even a dream may show us memory
extending far further back than we could ordinarily imagine. The facing
of death in battle, we know, recalls to many, with extreme vividness,
scenes of early childhood which they had deemed long since forgotten.
"There is nothing," says Bergson, "more instructive in this regard than
what happens in cases of sudden suffocation--in men drowned or hanged.
The man, when brought to life again, states that he saw in a very short
time all the forgotten events of his life, passing before him with great
rapidity, with their smallest circumstances, and in the very order in
which they occurred."[Footnote: La Perception du Changement, pp. 30-31,
and Matter and Memory, p 200 (Fr p 168).] Hence we can never be
absolutely sure that we have forgotten anything although at any given
time we may be unable to recall it to mind. There is an unconscious
memory.[Footnote: Cf. Samuel Butler's Unconscious Memory.] Speaking of
the profound and yet undeniable reality of the unconscious, Bergson
says,[Footnote: Matter and Memory, pp 181-182 (Fr. pp. 152-153). See
also Le Souvenir du present et la fausse reconnaissance, Revue
philosophique, Dec., 1908, p. 592, and L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 159-
161 (Mind-Energy).] "Our unwillingness to conceive unconscious psychical
states, is due, above all, to the fact that we hold consciousness to be
the essential property of psychical states, so that a psychical state
cannot, it seems, cease to be conscious without ceasing to exist. But if
consciousness is but the characteristic note of the present, that is to
say, of the actually lived, in short, of the active, then that which
does not act may cease to belong to consciousness without therefore
ceasing to exist in some manner. In other words, in the psychological
domain, consciousness may not be the synonym of existence, but only of
real action or of immediate efficacy; limiting thus the meaning of the
term, we shall have less difficulty in representing to ourselves a
psychical state which is unconscious, that is to say, ineffective.
Whatever idea we may frame of consciousness in itself, such as it would
be if it could work untrammelled, we cannot deny that in a being which
has bodily functions, the chief office of consciousness is to preside
over action and to enlighten choice. Therefore it throws light on the
immediate antecedents of the decision and on those past recollections
which can usefully combine with it; all else remains in shadow." But we
have no more right to say that the past effaces itself as soon as
perceived than to suppose that material objects cease to exist when we
cease to perceive them. Memory, to use a geometrical illustration which
Bergson himself employs, comes into action like the point of a cone
pressing against a plane. The plane denotes the present need,
particularly in relation to bodily action, while the cone stands for all
our total past. Much of this past, indeed most of it, only endures as
unconscious Memory, but it is always capable of coming to the apex of
the cone, i.e., coming into consciousness. So we may say that there are
different planes of Memory, conic sections, if we keep up the original
metaphor, and the largest of these contains all our past. This may be
well described as "the plane of dream."[Footnote: See Matter and Memory,
p. 222 (Fr. p. 186) and the paper L'Effort intellectuel, Revue
philosophique, Jan., 1902, pp. 2 and 25, L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 165
and 199 (Mind-Energy).]

This connexion of Memory with dreams is more fully brought out by
Bergson in his lecture before the Institut psychologique international,
five years after the publication of Matiere et Memoire, entitled Le
Reve. [Footnote: Delivered March 26, 1901. See Bibliography, p. 153.]
The following is a brief summary of the view there set forth. Memories,
and only memories, weave the web of our dreams. They are "such stuff as
dreams are made on." Often we do not recognize them. They may be very
old memories, forgotten during waking hours, drawn from the most obscure
depths of our past, or memories of objects we have perceived
distractedly, almost unconsciously, while awake. They may be fragments
of broken memories, composing an incoherent and unrecognizable whole. In
a waking state our memories are closely connected with our present
situation (unless we be given to day-dreams!). In an animal memory
serves to recall to him the advantageous or injurious consequences which
have formerly arisen in a like situation, and so aids his present
action. In man, memory forms a solid whole, a pyramid whose point is
inserted precisely into our present action. But behind the memories
which are involved in our occupations, there are others, thousands of
others, stored below the scene illuminated by consciousness. "Yes, I
believe indeed," says Bergson, "that all our past life is there,
preserved even to the most infinitesimal details, and that we forget
nothing and that all that we have ever felt, perceived, thought, willed,
from the first awakening of our consciousness, survives indestructibly."
[Footnote: Dreams, p. 37. For this discussion in full, see pages 34-39,
or see L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 100-103 (Mind-Energy).] Of course, in
action I have something else to do than occupy myself with these. But
suppose I become disinterested in present action--that I fall asleep--
then the obstacle (my attention to action) removed, these memories try
to raise the trap-door--they all want to get through. From the multitude
which are called, which will be chosen? When I was awake, only those
were admitted which bore on the present situation. Now, in sleep, more
vague images occupy my vision, more indecisive sounds reach my ear, more
indistinct touches come to my body, and more vague sensations come from
my internal organs. Hence those memories which can assimilate themselves
to some element in this vague mass of very indistinct sensations manage
to get through. When such union is effected, between memory and
sensation, we have a dream.

In order that a recollection should be brought to mind, it is necessary
that it should descend from the height of pure memory to the precise
point where action is taking place. Such a power is the mark of the
well-balanced mind, pursuing a via media between impulsiveness on the
one hand, and dreaminess on the other. "The characteristic of the man of
action," says Bergson in this connexion, "is the promptitude with which
he summons to the help of a given situation all the memories which have
reference to it. To live only in the present, to respond to a stimulus
by the immediate reaction which prolongs it, is the mark of the lower
animals; the man who proceeds in this way is a man of impulse. But he
who lives in the past, for the mere pleasure of living there, and in
whom recollections emerge into the light of consciousness, without any
advantage for the present situation, is hardly better fitted for action;
here we have no man of impulse, but a dreamer. Between these two
extremes lies the happy disposition of a memory docile enough to follow
with precision all the outlines of the present situation, but energetic
enough to resist all other appeal. Good sense or practical sense, is
probably nothing but this."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 198 (Fr. pp.
166-167).]

In the paper L'Effort intellectuel, contributed in 1902 to the Revue
philosophique, and now reprinted in L'Energie spirituelle,[Footnote: Pp.
163-202. See also Mind-Energy.]Bergson gives an analysis of what is
involved in intellectual effort. There is at first, he shows, something
conceived quite generally, an idea vague and abstract, a schema which
has to be completed by distinct images. In thought there is a movement
of the mind from the plane of the schema to the plane of the concrete
image. Various images endeavour to fit themselves into the schema, or
the schema may adapt itself to the reception of the images. These double
efforts to secure adaptation and cooperation may both encounter
resistance from the other, a situation which is known to us as
hesitation, accompanied by the awareness of obstacles, thus involving
intellectual effort.

Memory then, Bergson wishes us to realize, in response to his treatment
of it, is no mere function of the brain; it is something infinitely more
subtle, infinitely more elusive, and more wondrous. Our memories are not
stored in the brain like letters in a filing cabinet, and all our past
survives indestructibly as Memory, even though in the form of
unconscious memory. We must recognize Memory to be a spiritual fact and
so regard it as a pivot on which turn many discussions of vital
importance when we come to investigate the problem of the relation of
soul and body. For "Memory must be, in principle, a power absolutely
independent of matter. If then, spirit is a reality, it is here, in the
phenomenon of Memory that we may come into touch with it
experimentally."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 81 (Fr. p. 68).]
"Memory," he would remind us finally, "is just the intersection of mind
and matter."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, Introduction, p. xii.] "A
remembrance cannot be the result of a state of the brain. The state of
the brain continues the remembrance; it gives it a hold on the present
by the materiality which it confers upon it, but pure memory is a
spiritual manifestation. With Memory, we are, in very truth, in the
domain of spirit."[Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 320 (Fr. p. 268).]




CHAPTER V

THE RELATION OF SOUL AND BODY


The hypothesis of Psycho-physical Parallelism--Not to be accepted
uncritically--Bergson opposes it, and shows the hypothesis to rest on a
confusion of terms. Bergson against Epiphenomenalism--Soul-life unique
and wider than the brain--Telepathy, subconscious action and psychical
research--Souls and survival.


For philosophy in general, and for psychology in particular, the problem
of the relation of soul and body has prime significance, and moreover,
it is a problem with which each of us is acquainted intimately and
practically, even if we know little or nothing of the academic
discussions, or of the technical terms representing various views. It is
very frequently the terminology which turns the plain man away from the
consideration of philosophical problems; but he has some conception,
however crude it may be, of his soul or his mind and of his body. These
terms are familiar to him, but the sight of a phrase like "psycho-
physical parallelism" rather daunts him. Really, it stands for quite a
simple thing, and is just the official label used to designate the
theory commonly held by scientific men of all kinds, to describe the
relation of soul and body. Put more precisely, it is just the assertion
that brain and consciousness work on parallel lines.

Bergson does not accept the hypothesis of psycho-physical parallelism.
In the first of his four lectures on La Nature de l'Ame, given at London
University in 1911, we find him criticizing the notion that
consciousness has no independence of its own, that it merely expresses
certain states of the brain, that the content of a fact of consciousness
is to be found wholly in the corresponding cerebral state. It is true
that we should not find many physiologists or philosophers who would
tell us now that "the brain secretes thought as the liver secretes
bile."[Footnote: Cabanis (1757-1808). Rapports du physique et du morale
de l'homme, 1802. See quotation by William James in Human Immortality.
Note (4) in his Appendix.] But there was an idea that, if we could see
through the skull and observe what takes place in the brain, if we had
an enormously powerful microscope which would permit us to follow the
movements of the molecules, atoms, electrons, of the brain, and if we
had the key to the correspondence between these phenomena and the mind,
we should know all the thoughts and wishes of the person to whom the
brain belonged--we should see what took place in his soul, as a
telegraph operator could read by the oscillation of his needles the
meaning of a message which was sent through his instrument. The notion
of an equality or parallelism between conscious activity and cerebral
activity, was commonly adopted by modern physiology, and it was adopted
without discussion as a scientific notion by the majority of
philosophers. Yet the experimental basis of this theory is extremely
slight, indeed altogether insufficient, and in reality the theory is a
metaphysical conception, resulting from the views of the seventeenth
century thinkers who had hopes of "a universal mathematic." The idea had
been accepted that all was capable of determination in the psychical as
well as the physical world, inasmuch as the psychical was only a reflex
of the physical. Parallelism was adopted by science because of its
convenience.[Footnote: See The Times of Oct. 21, 1911.] Bergson,
however, pointed out that philosophy ought not to accept it without
criticism, and maintained, moreover, that it could not stand the
criticism that might be brought against it. Relation of soul and body
was undeniable, but that it was a parallel or equivalent relation he
denied most emphatically. That criticism he had launched himself with
great vigour in 1901 at a Meeting of the Societe francaise de
philosophie,[Footnote: See Bibliography, p. 153.] and on a more
memorable occasion, at the International Congress of Philosophy at
Geneva in 1904.[Footnote: See Bibliography, p. 154.] Before the
Philosophical Society he lectured on Le Parallelisme psycho-physique et
la Metaphysique positive, and propounded the following propositions:

1. If psycho-physical parallelism is neither rigorous nor complete, if
to every determined thought there does not correspond an absolutely
determined state (si a toute pensee determinee ne correspond pas un etat
cerebral determine absolument), it will be the business of experience to
mark with increasing accuracy the precise points at which parallelism
begins and ends.

2. If this empirical inquiry is possible, it will measure more and more
exactly the separation between the thought and the physical conditions
in which this thought is exercised. In other words, it will give us a
progressive knowledge of the relation of man as a thinking being to man
as a living being, and therefore of what may be termed "the meaning of
Life."

3. If this meaning of Life can be empirically determined more and more
exactly, and completely, a positive metaphysic is possible: that is to
say, a metaphysic which cannot be contested and which will admit of a
direct and indefinite progress; such a metaphysic would escape the
objections urged against a transcendental metaphysic, and would be
strictly scientific in form.

After having propounded these propositions, he defended them by
recalling much of the data considered in his work Matiere et Memoire
which he had published five years previously and which has been examined
in the previous chapter. The onus of proof lay, said Bergson, with the
upholders of parallelism. It is a purely metaphysical hypothesis
unwarrantable in his opinion as a dogma. He distinguishes between
correspondence--which he of course admits--and parallelism, to which he
is opposed. We never think without a certain substratum of cerebral
activity, but what the relation is precisely, between brain and
consciousness, is one for long and patient research: it cannot be
determined a priori and asserted dogmatically. Until such investigation
has been carried out, it behoves us to be undogmatic and not to allege
more than the facts absolutely warrant, that is to say, a relation of
correspondence. Parallelism is far too simple an explanation to be a
true one. Before the International Congress, Bergson launched another
attack on parallelism which caused quite a little sensation among those
present. Says M. E. Chartier, in his report: La lecture de ce memoire,
lecture qui commandait l'attention a provoque chez presque tous les
auditeurs un mouvement de surprise et d'inquietude. [Footnote: The paper
Le Paralogisme psycho-physiologique is given in Revue de metaphysique et
de morale, Nov., 1904, pp. 895-908. The Discussion in the Congress is
given on pp. 1027-1037. This was reissued under the title Le Cerveau et
la Pensee: une illusion philosophique in the collected volume of essays
and lectures, published in 1919, L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 203-223
(Mind-Energy).] He there set out to show that Parallelism cannot be
consistently stated from any point of view, for it rests on a fallacious
argument--on a fundamental contradiction. To grasp Bergson's points in
this argument, the reading of this paper in the original, as a whole, is
necessary. It is difficult to condense it and keep its clearness of
thought. Briefly, it amounts to this, that the formulation of the
doctrine of Parallelism rests on an ambiguity in the terms employed in
its statement, that it contains a subtle dialectical artifice by which
we pass surreptitiously from one system of notation to another ignoring
the substitution: logically, we ought to keep to one system of notation
throughout. The two systems are: Idealism and Realism. Bergson attempts
to show that neither of these separately can admit Parallelism, and that
Parallelism cannot be formulated except by a confusion of the two--by a
process of mental see-sawing as it were, which of course we are not
entitled to perform, Idealism and Realism being two opposed and
contradictory views of reality. For the Idealist, things external to the
mind are images, and of these the brain is one. Yet the images are in
the brain. This amounts to saying that the whole is contained in the
part. We tend, however, to avoid this by passing to a pseudo-realistic
position by saying that the brain is a thing and not an image. This is
passing over to the other system of notation. For the Realist it is the
essence of reality to suppose that there are things behind
representations. Some Realists maintain that the brain actually creates
the representation, which is the doctrine of Epiphenomenalism: while
others hold the view of the Occasionalists, and others posit one reality
underlying both. All however agree in upholding Parallelism. In the
hands of the Realist, the theory is equivalent to asserting that a
relation between two terms is equal to one of them. This involves
contradiction and Realism then crosses over to the other system of
notation. It cannot do without Idealism: science itself oscillates from
the one system to the other. We cannot admit Parallelism as a dogma--as
a metaphysical truth--however useful it may be as a working hypothesis.

Bergson then proceeds to state and to criticize some of the mischievous
ideas which arise from Parallelism. There is the idea of a brain-soul,
of a spot where the soul lives or where the brain thinks--which we have
not quite abandoned since Descartes named the pineal gland as the seat
of the soul. Then there is the false idea that all causality is
mechanistic and that there is nothing in the universe which is not
mathematically calculable. There is the confusion of representations and
of things. There is the false notion that we may argue that if two
wholes are bound together there must be an equivalent relation of the
parts. Bergson points out in this connexion that the absence or the
presence of a screw can stop a machine or keep it going, but the parts
of the screw do not correspond to the parts of the machine. In his new
introduction to Matiere et Memoire, he said, "There is a close connexion
between a state of consciousness and the brain: this we do not dispute.
But there is also a close connexion between a coat and the nail on which
it hangs, for if the nail is pulled out the coat falls to the ground.
Shall we say then that the shape of the nail gives us the shape of the
coat or in any way corresponds to it? No more are we entitled to
conclude because the psychical fact is hung on to a cerebral state that
there is any parallelism between the two series psychical and
physiological." [Footnote: There must be an awkward misprint "physical"
for "psychical" in the English translation, p. xi.] Our observation and
experience, and science itself, strictly speaking, do not allow us to
assert more than that there exists a certain CORRESPONDENCE between
brain and consciousness. The psychical and the physical are inter-
dependent but not parallel.

Bergson however has more to assert than merely the inadequacy and
falsity of Parallelism or Epiphenomenalism. This last theory merely adds
consciousness to physical facts as a kind of phosphorescent gleam,
resembling, in Bergson's words, a "streak of light following the
movement of a match rubbed along a wall in the dark." [Footnote: L'Ame
et le Corps, pp. 12-13, in Le Materialisme actuel, or pp. 35-36 of
L'Energie spirituelle (Mind-Energy).] He maintains, as against all this,
the irreducibility of the mental, our utter inability to interpret
consciousness in terms of anything else, the life of the soul being
unique. He further claims that this psychical life is wider and richer
than we commonly suppose. The brain is the organ of attention to life.
What was said in regard to memory and the brain is applicable to all our
mental life. The mind or soul is wider than the brain in every
direction, and the brain's activity corresponds to no more than an
infinitesimal part of the activity of the mind. [Footnote: L'Ame et le
Corps, Le Materialisme actuel, p. 45, L'Energie spirituelle, p. 61.]
This is expressed more clearly in his Presidential Address to the
British Society for Psychical Research at the Aeolian Hall, London,
1913, where he remarked, "The cerebral life is to the mental life what
the movements of the baton of a conductor are to the symphony."
[Footnote: The Times, May 29, 1913.] Such a remark contains fruitful
suggestions to all engaged in Psychical Research, and to all persons
interested in the fascinating study of telepathy. Bergson is of the
opinion that we are far less definitely cut off from each other, soul
from soul, than we are body from body. "It is space," he says, "which
creates multiplicity and distinction. It is by their bodies that the
different human personalities are radically distinct. But if it is
demonstrated that human consciousness is partially independent of the
human brain, since the cerebral life represents only a small part of the
mental life, it is very possible that the separation between the various
human consciousnesses or souls, may not be so radical as it seems to
be." [Footnote: The Times, May 29, 1913.] There may be, he suggests, in
the psychical world, a process analogous to what is known in the
physical world as "endosmosis." Pleading for an impartial and frank
investigation of telepathy, he pointed out that it was probable, or at
least possible, that it was taking place constantly as a subtle and sub-
conscious influence of soul on soul, but too feebly to be noticed by
active consciousness, or it was neutralized by certain obstacles. We
have no right to deny its possibility on the plea of its being
supernatural, or against natural law, for our ignorance does not entitle
us to say what may be natural or not. If telepathy does not square at
all well with our preconceived notions, it may be more true that our
preconceived notions are false than that telepathy is fictitious;
especially will this be so if our notion of the relation of soul and
body be based on Parallelism. We must overcome this prejudice and seek
to make others set it aside. Telepathy and the sub-conscious mental life
combine to make us realize the wonder of the soul. It is not spatial, it
is spiritual. Bergson insists strongly on the unity of our conscious
life. Merely associationist theories are vicious in this respect: they
try to resolve the whole into parts, and then neglect the whole in their
concentration on the parts. All psychological investigation incurs this
risk of dealing with abstractions. "Psychology, in fact, proceeds like
all the other sciences by analysis. It resolves the self which has been
given to it at first in a simple intuition, into sensations, feelings,
ideas, etc., which it studies separately. It substitutes then for the
self a series of elements which form the facts of psychology. But are
these elements really parts? That is the whole question, and it is
because it has been evaded that the problem of human personality has so
often been stated in insoluble terms." [Footnote: Introduction to
Metaphysics, p. 21.] "Personality cannot be composed of psychical states
even if there be added to them a kind of thread for the purpose of
joining the states together." [Footnote: Introduction to Metaphysics, p.
25.] We shall never make the soul fit into a category or succeed in
applying concepts to our inner life. The life of the soul is wider than
the brain and wider than all intellectual constructions or moulds we may
attempt to form. It is a creative force capable of producing novelty in
the world: it creates actions and can, in addition, create itself.

Philosophy shows us "the life of the body just where it really is, on
the road that leads to the life of the spirit"; our powers of sense
impression and of intelligence are both instruments in the service of
the will. With a little will one can do much if one places the will in
the right direction. For this force of will which is the essence of the
soul or personality has these exceptional characteristics, that its
intensity depends on its direction, and that its quality may become the
creator of quantity. [Footnote: See the lectures La Nature de l'Ame.]
The brain and the body in general are instruments of the soul. The brain
orients the mind toward action, it is the point of attachment between
the spirit and its material environment. It is like the point of a knife
to the blade--it enables it to penetrate into the realm of action or, to
give another of Bergson's metaphors, it is like the prow of the ship,
enabling the soul to penetrate the billows of reality. Yet, for all
that, it limits and confines the life of the spirit; it narrows vision
as do the blinkers which we put on horses. We must, however, abandon the
notion of any rigid and determined parallelism between soul and body and
accustom ourselves to the fact that the life of the mind is wider than
the limits of cerebral activity. And further, there is this to consider-
-"The more we become accustomed to this idea of a consciousness which
overflows the organ we call the brain, then the more natural and
probable we find the hypothesis that the soul survives the body. For
were the mental exactly modelled on the cerebral, we might have to admit
that consciousness must share the fate of the body and die with it."
[Footnote: New York Times, Sept. 27, 1914.] "But the destiny of
consciousness is not bound up with the destiny of cerebral matter."
[Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 285 (Fr. p. 293).] "Although the data
is not yet sufficient to warrant more than an affirmation of high
probability," [Footnote: Louis Levine's interview with Bergson, New York
Times, Feb. 22, 1914. Quoted by Miller, Bergson and Religion, p. 268.]
yet it leaves the way open for a belief in a future life and creates a
presumption in favour of a faith in immortality. "Humanity," as Bergson
remarks, "may, in its evolution, overcome the most formidable of its
obstacles, perhaps even death." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 286
(Fr. p. 294). In Life and Consciousness he says we may admit that in man
at any rate "Consciousness pursues its path beyond this earthly life"
Cf. also conclusion to La Conscience el la Vie in L'Energie spirituelle,
p. 29, and to L'Ame et le Corps, in the same vol., p. 63.]

The great error of the spiritual philosophers has been the idea that by
isolating the spiritual life from all the rest, by suspending it in
space, as high as possible above the earth, they were placing it beyond
attack; as if they were not, thereby, simply exposing it to be taken as
an effect of mirage! Certainly they are right to believe in the absolute
reality of the person and in his independence of matter: but science is
there which shows the inter-dependence of conscious life and cerebral
activity. When a strong instinct assures the probability of personal
survival, they are right not to close their ears to its voice; but if
there exist "souls" capable of an independent life, whence do they come?
When, how, and why do they enter into this body which we see arise quite
naturally from a mixed cell derived from the bodies of its two parents?
[Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 283 (Fr. p. 291).] At the close of the
Lectures on La Nature de l'Ame, Bergson suggests, by referring to an
allegory of Plotinus, in regard to the origin of souls, that in the
beginning there was a general interpenetration of souls which was
equivalent to the very principle of life, and that the history of the
evolution of life on this planet shows this principle striving until
man's consciousness has been developed, and thus personalities have been
able to constitute themselves. "Souls are being created which, in a
sense, pre-existed. They are nothing else but the little rills into
which the great river of life divides itself, flowing through the great
body of humanity." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 284 (Fr. p. 292).]




CHAPTER VI

TIME--TRUE AND FALSE


Our ordinary conception of Time false because it is spatial and
homogeneous--Real Time (la duree) not spatial or homogeneous--Flow of
consciousness a qualitative multiplicity--The real self and the external
self. La duree and the life of the self--No repetition--Personality and
the accumulation of experience-Change and la duree as vital elements in
the universe.


For any proper understanding of Bergson's thought, it is necessary to
grasp his views regarding Time, for they are fundamental factors in his
philosophy and serve to distinguish it specially from that of previous
thinkers. It is interesting to note however, in passing, that Dr. Ward,
in his Realm of Ends, claims to have anticipated Bergson's view of
Concrete Time. In discussing the relation of such Time to the conception
of God, he says, "I think I may fairly claim to have anticipated him
(Bergson) to some extent. In 1886 I had written a long paragraph on this
topic." [Footnote: See The Realm of Ends' foot-note on pp. 306-7. Ward
is referring to his famous article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica,
eleventh edition, Psychology, p. 577 (now revised and issued in book
form as Psychological Principles).] Be this as it may, no philosopher
has made so much of this view of Time as Bergson. One might say it is
the corner-stone of his philosophy, for practically the whole of it is
built upon his conception of Time. His first large work, Essai sur les
donnees immediates de la conscience, or, to give it its better title, in
English, Time and Free Will, appeared in 1889.

Our ordinary conception of Time, that which comes to us from the
physical sciences, is, Bergson maintains, a false one. It is false
because so far from being temporal in character, it is spatial. We look
upon space as a homogeneous medium without boundaries; yet we look on
Time too, as just such another medium, homogeneous and unlimited. Now
here is an obvious difficulty, for since homogeneity consists in being
without qualities, it is difficult to see how one homogeneity can be
distinguished from another. This difficulty is usually avoided by the
assertion that homogeneity takes two forms, one in which its contents
co-exist, and another in which they follow one another. Space, then, we
say, is that homogeneous medium in which we are aware of side-by-
sideness, Time--that homogeneous medium in which we are aware of an
element of succession. But this surely we are not entitled to maintain,
for we are then distinguishing two supposed homogeneities by asserting a
difference of quality in them. To do so is to take away homogeneity. We
must think again and seek a way out of this difficulty. Let us admit
space to be a homogeneous medium without bounds. Then every homogeneous
medium without bounds must be space. What, then, becomes of Time?--for
on this showing, Time becomes space. Yes, says Bergson, that is so, for
our common view of Time is a false one, being really a hybrid
conception, a spurious concept due to the illicit introduction of the
idea of space, and to our application of the notion of space, which is
applicable to physical objects, to states of consciousness, to which it
is really inapplicable. Objects occupying space are marked out as
external to one another, but this cannot be said of conscious states.
Yet, in our ordinary speech and conventional view of things, we think of
conscious states as separated from one another and as spread out like
"things," in a fictitious, homogeneous medium to which we give the name
Time. Bergson says, "At any rate, we cannot finally admit two forms of
the homogeneous, Time and Space, without first seeking whether one of
them cannot be reduced to the other. Now, externality is the
distinguishing mark of things which occupy space, while states of
consciousness are not essentially external to one another and become so
only by being spread out in Time regarded as a homogeneous medium. If,
then, one of these two supposed forms of the homogeneous, viz., Time and
Space, is derived from the other, we can surmise a priori that the idea
of space is the fundamental datum. Time, conceived under the form of an
unbounded and homogeneous medium, is nothing but the ghost of space,
haunting the reflective consciousness." [Footnote: Time and Free Will,
p. 98 (Fr. p. 75).] Bergson remarks that Kant's great mistake was to
take Time as a homogeneous medium. [Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 232
(Fr. p. 178).]

Having asserted the falsity of the view of Time ordinarily held, Bergson
proceeds to make clear to us his view of what Real Time is--an
undertaking by no means easy for him, endeavouring to lay before us the
subtleties of this problem, nor for us who endeavour to interpret his
language and grasp his meaning. We are indeed here face to face with
what is one of the most difficult sections of his philosophy. An initial
difficulty meets us in giving a definite name to the Time which Bergson
regards as so real, as opposed to the spatial falsity, masquerading as
Time, whose true colours he has revealed. In the original French text
Bergson employs the term duree to convey his meaning. But for the
translation of this into English there is no term which will suffice and
which will adequately convey to the reader, without further exposition,
the wealth of meaning intended to be conveyed. "Duration" is usually
employed by translators as the nearest approach possible in English. The
inadequacy of language is never more keenly felt than in dealing with
fundamental problems of thought. Its chief mischief is its all-too-
frequent ambiguity. In the following remarks the original French term la
duree will be used in preference to the English word "Duration."

The distinction between the false Time and true Time may be regarded as
a distinction between mathematical Time and living Time, or between
abstract and concrete Time. This living, concrete Time is that true Time
of which Bergson endeavours to give us a conception as la duree. He has
criticized the abstract mathematical Time, his attack having been made
to open up the way for a treatment of what he really considers Time to
be. Now, from the arguments previously mentioned, it follows that Time,
Real Time, which is radically different from space, cannot be any
homogeneous medium. It is heterogeneous in character. We are aware of it
in relation to ourselves, for it has reference not to the existence of a
multiplicity of material objects in space, but to a multiplicity of a
quite different nature, entirely non-spatial, viz., that of conscious
states. Being non-spatial, such a multiplicity cannot be composed of
elements which are external to one another as are the objects existing
in space. States of consciousness are not in any way external to one
another. Indeed, they interpenetrate to such a degree that even the use
of the word "state" is apt to be misleading. As we saw in the chapter on
The Reality of Change, there can be strictly no states of consciousness,
for consciousness is not static but dynamic. Language and conventional
figures of speech, of which the word "state" itself is a good example,
serve to cut up consciousness artificially, but, in reality, it is, as
William James termed it, "a stream" and herein lies the essence of
Bergson's duree--the Real as opposed to the False Time. "Pure Duration"
(la duree pure), he says, "is the form which the succession of our
conscious states assumes when our Ego lets itself live, when it refrains
from separating its present state from its former states. For this
purpose, it need not be entirely absorbed in the passing sensation or
idea, for then, on the contrary, it would no longer 'endure.' Nor need
it forget its former states; it is enough that in recalling these
states, it does not set them alongside its actual state as one point
alongside another, but forms both the past and the present states into
an organic whole, as happens when we recall the notes of a tune,
melting, so to speak, into one another. Might it not be said that even
if these notes succeed one another, yet, we perceive them in one
another, and that their totality may be compared to a living being whose
parts, although distinct, permeate one another just because they are so
closely connected?" [Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 100 (Fr. p. 76).]
Such a duration is Real Time. Unfortunately, we, obsessed by the idea of
space, introduce it unwittingly and set our states of consciousness side
by side in such a way as to perceive them alongside one another; in a
word, we project them into space and we express duree in terms of
extensity and succession thus takes the form of a continuous line or a
chain--the parts of which touch without interpenetrating one another.
[Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 100 (Fr. p. 76).] Thus is brought to
birth that mongrel form, that hybrid conception of False Time criticized
above. Real Time, la duree, is not, however, susceptible like False Time
to measurement, for it is, strictly speaking, not quantitative in
character, but is rather a qualitative multiplicity. "Real Duration (la
duree reele) is just what has always been called Time, but it is Time
perceived as indivisible." [Footnote: La Perception du Changement, p.
26. Cf. the whole of the Second Lecture.] Certainly pure consciousness
does not perceive Time as a sum of units of duration, for, left to
itself, it has no means and even no reason to measure Time, but a
feeling which lasted only half the number of days, for example, would no
longer be the same feeling for it. It is true that when we give this
feeling a certain name, when we treat it as a thing, we believe that we
can diminish its duration by half, for example, and also halve the
duration of all the rest of our history. It seems that it would still be
the same life only on a reduced scale. But we forget that states of
consciousness are processes and not things; that they are alive and
therefore constantly changing, and that, in consequence, it is
impossible to cut off a moment from them without making them poorer by
the loss of some impression and thus altering their quality. [Footnote:
Time and Free Will, p. 196 (Fr. p. 150).] La duree appears as a "wholly
qualitative multiplicity, an absolute heterogeneity of elements which
pass over into one another." [Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 229 (Fr.
p. 176).] Such a time cannot be measured by clocks or dials but only by
conscious beings, for "it is the very stuff of which life and
consciousness are made." Intellect does not grasp Real Time--we can only
have an intuition of it. "We do not think Real Time--but we live it
because life transcends intellect."

In order to bring out the distinctly qualitative character of such a
conception of Time, Bergson says, "When we hear a series of blows of a
hammer, the sounds form an indivisible melody in so far as they are pure
sensations, and here again give rise to a dynamic progress; but, knowing
that the same objective cause is at work, we cut up this progress into
phases which we then regard as identical; and this multiplicity of
elements no longer being conceivable except by being set out in space--
since they have now become identical--we are, necessarily, led to the
idea of a homogeneous Time, the symbolical image of la duree."
[Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 125 (Fr. pp. 94-95).] "Whilst I am
writing these lines," he continues, "the hour strikes on a neighbouring
clock, but my inattentive ear does not perceive it until several strokes
have made themselves heard. Hence, I have not counted them and yet I
only have to turn my attention backwards, to count up the four strokes
which have already sounded, and add them to those which I hear. If,
then, I question myself carefully on what has just taken place, I
perceive that the first four sounds had struck my ear and even affected
my consciousness, but that the sensations produced by each one of them,
instead of being set side by side, had melted into one another in such a
way as to give the whole a peculiar quality, to make a kind of musical
phrase out of it. In order, then, to estimate retrospectively, the
number of strokes sounded, I tried to reconstruct this phrase in
thought; my imagination made one stroke, then two, then three, and as
long as it did not reach the exact number, four, my feeling, when
consulted, was qualitatively different. It had thus ascertained, in its
own way, the succession of four strokes, but quite otherwise than by a
process of addition and without bringing in the image of a juxtaposition
of distinct terms. In a word, the number of strokes was perceived as a
quality and not as a quantity; it is thus that la duree is presented to
immediate consciousness and it retains this form so long as it does not
give place to a symbolical representation, derived from extensity."
[Footnote: Time and Free Will, pp. 127-8 (Fr. pp. 96-97).] In these
words Bergson endeavours to drive home his contention that la duree is
essentially qualitative. He is well aware of the results of "the breach
between quality and quantity," between true duration and pure extensity.
He sees its implications in regard to vital problems of the self, of
causality and of freedom. Its specific bearing on the problems of
freedom and causality we shall discuss in the following chapter. As
regards the self, Bergson recognizes that we have much to gain by
keeping up the illusion through which we make our conscious states share
in the reciprocal externality of outer things, because this distinctness
and solidification enables us to give them fixed names in spite of their
instability, and distinct names in spite of their interpenetration.
Above all it enables us to objectify them, to throw them out into the
current of social life. But just for this very reason we are in danger
of living our lives superficially and of covering up our real self. We
are generally content with what is but a shadow of the real self,
projected into space. Consciousness, goaded on by an insatiable desire
to separate, substitutes the symbol for the reality or perceives the
reality only through the symbol. As the self thus refracted and thereby
broken in pieces, is much better adapted to the requirements of social
life in general, and of language in particular, consciousness prefers it
and gradually loses sight of the fundamental self which is a qualitative
multiplicity of conscious states flowing, interpenetrating, melting into
one another, and forming an organic whole, a living unity or
personality. It is through a consideration of la duree and what it
implies that Bergson is led on to the distinction of two selves in each
of us.

Towards the close of his essay on Time and Free Will, he points out that
there are finally two different selves, a fundamental self and a social
self. We reach the former by deep introspection which leads us to grasp
our inner states as living things, constantly becoming, never amenable
to measure, which permeate one another and of which the succession in la
duree has nothing in common with side-by-sideness. But the moments at
which we thus grasp ourselves are rare; the greater part of our time we
live outside ourselves, hardly perceiving anything of ourselves but our
own ghost--a colourless shadow which is but the social representation of
the real and largely concealed Ego. Hence our life unfolds in space
rather than in time. We live for the external world rather than for
ourselves, we speak rather than think, we are "acted" rather than "act"
ourselves. To act freely, however, is to recover possession of one's
real self and to get back into la duree reele. [Footnote: Time and Free
Will, p. 232 (Fr. p. 178).]

Real Time, then, is a living reality, not discrete, not spatial in
character--an utter contrast to that fictitious Time with which so many
thinkers have busied themselves, setting up "as concrete reality the
distinct moments of a Time which they have reduced to powder, while the
unity which enables us to call the grains 'powder' they hold to be much
more artificial. Others place themselves in the eternal. But as their
eternity remains, notwithstanding, abstract since it is empty, being the
eternity of a concept which by hypothesis excludes from itself the
opposing concept, one does not see how this eternity would permit of an
indefinite number of moments co-existing in it, an eternity of death,
since it is nothing else than the movement emptied of the mobility which
made its life." [Footnote: An Introduction to Metaphysics, pp. 51-54.]
The true view of Time, as la duree, would make us see it as a duration
which expands, contracts, and intensifies itself more and more; at the
limit would be eternity, no longer conceptual eternity, which is an
eternity of death, but an eternity of life and change--a living, and
therefore still moving, eternity in which our own particular duree would
be included as the vibrations are in light, [Footnote: Speaking in
Matter and Memory on the Tension of la duree, Bergson calls attention to
the "trillions of vibrations" which give rise to our sensation of red
light, p. 272 (Fr. p. 229) Cf. La Conscience et la Vie in L'Energie
spirituelle, p. 16.] an eternity which would be the concentration of all
duree. Altering the old classical phrase sub specie aeternitatis, to
suit his special view of Time, Bergson urges us to strive to perceive
all things sub specie durationis. [Footnote: La Perception du
Changement, p. 36.]

Finally, Bergson reminds us that if our existence were composed of
separate states, with an impassive Ego to unite them, for us there would
be no duration, for an Ego which does not change, does not endure. La
duree, however, is the foundation of our being and is, as we feel, the
very substance of the world in which we live. Associating his view of
Real Time with the reality of change, he points out that nothing is more
resistant or more substantial than la duree, for our duree is not merely
one instant replacing another--if it were there would never be anything
but the present, no prolonging of the past into the actual, no growth of
personality, and no evolution of the universe. La duree is the
continuous progress of the past which gnaws into the future and which
swells as it advances, leaving on all things its bite, or the mark of
its tooth. This being so, consciousness cannot go through the same state
twice; history does never really repeat itself. Our personality is being
built up each instant with its accumulated experience; it shoots, grows,
and ripens without ceasing. We are reminded of George Eliot's lines:

     "Our past still travels with us from afar
      And what we have been makes us what we are."

For our consciousness this is what we mean by the term "exist." "For a
conscious being, to exist is to change, to change is to mature, and to
go on creating oneself endlessly." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 8
(Fr. p. 8).] Real Time has, then, a very vital meaning for us as
conscious beings, indeed for all that lives, for the organism which
lives is a thing that "endures." "Wherever anything lives," says
Bergson, "there is a register in which Time is being inscribed. This, it
will be said, is only a metaphor. It is of the very essence of mechanism
in fact, to consider as metaphorical every expression which attributes
to Time an effective action and a reality of its own. In vain does
immediate experience show us that the very basis of our conscious
existence is Memory--that is to say, the prolongation of the past into
the present, or in a word, duree, acting and irreversible." [Footnote:
Creative Evolution, p. 17 (Fr. pp. 17-18).] Time is falsely assumed to
have just as much reality for a living being as for an hour-glass. But
if Time does nothing, it is nothing. It is, however, in Bergson's view,
vital to the whole of the universe. He expressly denies that la duree is
merely subjective; the universe "endures" as a whole. In Time and Free
Will it did not seem to matter whether we regarded our inner life as
having duree or as actually being duree. In the first instance, if we
have duree it is then only an aspect of reality, but if our personality
itself is duree, then Time is reality itself. He develops this last
point of view more explicitly in his later works, and la duree is
identified not only with the reality of change, but with memory and with
spirit. [Footnote: La Perception du Changement, Lecture 2.] In it he
finds the substance of a universe whose reality is change. "God," said
Plato, "being unable to make the world eternal, gave it Time--a moving
image of reality." Bergson himself quotes this remark of Plato, and
seems to have a vision like that of Rosetti's "Blessed Damozel," who
        ...... "saw
      Time like a pulse shake fierce
      Through all the worlds."

The more we study Time, the more we may grasp this vision ourselves, and
then we shall comprehend that la duree implies invention, the creation
of new forms, the continual elaboration of the absolutely new--in short,
an evolution which is creative.




CHAPTER VII

FREEDOM OF THE WILL


Spirit of man revolts from physical and psychological determinism--
Former examined and rejected--The latter more subtle--Vice of
"associationism"--Psychology without a self. Condemnation of
psychological determinism--Room for freedom--The self in action--
Astronomical forecasts--Foreseeableness of any human action impossible--
Human wills centres of indetermination--Not all our acts free--True
freedom, self-determination.


Before passing on to an examination of Bergson's treatment of Evolution,
we must consider his discussion of the problem of Freedom of the Will.
Few problems which have occupied the attention of philosophers have been
more discussed or have given rise to more controversy than that of
Freedom. This is, of course, natural as the question at issue is one of
very great importance, not merely as speculative, but also in the realm
of action. We ask ourselves: "Are we really free?" Can we will either of
two or more possibilities which are put before us, or, on the other
hand, is everything fixed, predestined in such a way that an all-knowing
consciousness could foretell from our past what course our future action
would take?

The study of the physical sciences has led to a general acceptance of a
principle of causality which is of such a kind that there seems no place
in the universe for human freedom. Further, there is a type of
psychology which gives rise to the belief that even mental occurrences
are as determined as those of the physical world, thus leaving no room
for autonomy of the Will. But even when presented with the arguments
which make up the case for physical or psychological determinism, the
spirit of man revolts from it, refuses to accept it as final, and
believes that, in some way or other, the case for Freedom may be
maintained. It is at this point that Bergson offers us some help in the
solution of the problem, by his Essai sur les donnees immediates de la
conscience, better described by its English title Time and Free Will.

The arguments for physical determinism are based on the view that
Freedom is incompatible with the fundamental properties of matter, and
in particular, with the principle of the conservation of energy. This
principle "has been assumed to admit of no exception; there is not an
atom either in the nervous system or in the whole of the universe whose
position is not determined by the sum of the mechanical actions which
the other atoms exert upon it. And the mathematician who knew the
position of the molecules or atoms of a human organism at a given
moment, as well as the position and motion of all the atoms in the
universe, capable of influencing it, could calculate with unfailing
certainty the past, present, and future actions of the person to whom
this organism belonged, just as one predicts an astronomical
phenomenon." [Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 144 (Fr. p. 110).] Now,
it follows that if we admit the universal applicability of such a theory
as that of the conservation of energy, we are maintaining that the whole
universe is capable of explanation on purely mechanical principles,
inherent in the units of which the universe is composed. Hence, the
relative position of all units at a given moment, whatever be their
nature, strictly determines what their position will be in the
succeeding moments, and this mechanistic succession goes on like a
Juggernaut car with crushing unrelentlessness, giving rise to a rigid
fatalism:

     "The moving finger writes; and having writ
      Moves on: nor all thy Piety nor Wit
      Shall lure it back to cancel half a line,
      Nor all thy tears wash out a Word of it."

Is there no way out of this cramping circle? We feel vaguely,
intuitively, that there is. Bergson points out to us a way. Even if we
admit, he says, that the direction and the velocity of every atom of
matter in the universe (including cerebral matter, i.e., the brain,
which is a material thing) are strictly determined, it would not at all
follow from the acceptance of this theorem that our mental life is
subject to the same necessity. For that to be the case, we should have
to show absolutely that a strictly determined psychical state
corresponds to a definite cerebral state. This, as we have seen, has not
been proved. It is admitted that to some psychical states of a limited
kind certain cerebral states do correspond, but we have no warrant
whatever for concluding that, because the physiological and the
psychological series exhibit some corresponding terms, the two series
are absolutely parallel. "To extend this parallelism to the series
themselves, in their totality, is to settle a priori the problem of
freedom." [Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 147 (Fr. pp. 112-113).] How
far the two series do run parallel is a question--as we saw in the
chapter on the relation of Soul and Body--for experience, observation,
and experiment to decide. The cases which are parallel are limited, and
involve facts which are independent of the power of the Will.

Bergson then proceeds to an examination of the more subtle and plausible
case for psychological determinism. A very large number of our actions
are due to some motive. There you have it, says the psychological
determinist. Your so-called Freedom of the Will is a fiction; in reality
it is merely the strongest motive which prevails and you imagine that
you "freely willed it." But then we must ask him to define "strongest,"
and here is the fallacy of his argument, for there is no other test of
which is the strongest motive, than that it has prevailed. Such
statements do not help to solve the difficulty at all, for they avoid it
and attempt to conceal it; they are due to a conception of mind which is
both false and mischievous, viz., Associationism. This view regards the
self as a collection of psychical states. The existing state of
consciousness is regarded as necessitated by the preceding states. As,
however, even the associationist is aware that these states differ from
one another in quality, he cannot attempt to deduce any one of them a
priori from its predecessors. He therefore endeavours to find a link
connecting the two states. That there is such a link as the simple
"association of ideas" Bergson would not think of denying. What he does
deny however, very emphatically, is the associationist statement that
this relation which explains the transition is the cause of it. Even
when admitting a certain truth in the associationist view, it is
difficult to maintain that an act is absolutely determined by its
motive, and our conscious states by one another. The real mischief of
this view lies, however, in the fact, that it misrepresents the self by
making it merely a collection of psychical states. John Stuart Mill
says, in his Examination of Sir William Hamilton's Philosophy: "I could
have abstained from murder if my aversion to the crime and my dread of
its consequences had been weaker than the temptation which impelled me
to commit it." [Footnote: Quoted by Bergson, Time and Free Will, p. 159
(Fr. p. 122).] Here desire, aversion, fear, and temptation are regarded
as clear cut phenomena, external to the self which experiences them, and
this leads to a curious balancing of pain and pleasure on purely
utilitarian lines, turning the mind into a calculating machine such as
one might find in a shop or counting-house, and taking no account of the
character of the self that "wills." There is, really, in such a system
of psychology, no room for self-expression, indeed, no meaning left for
the term "self." It is only an inaccurate psychology, misled by
language, which tries to show us the soul determined by sympathy,
aversion, or hate, as though by so many forces pressing upon it from
without. These feelings, provided that they go deep enough, make up the
whole soul; in them the character of the individual expresses itself,
since the whole content of the personality or soul is reflected in each
of them. Then my character is "me." "To say that the soul is determined
under the influence of any one of these feelings, is thus to recognize
that it is self-determined. The associationist reduces the self to an
aggregate of conscious states, sensations, feelings, and ideas. But if
he sees in these various states no more than is expressed in their name,
if he retains only their impersonal aspect, he may set them side by side
for ever without getting anything but a phantom self, the shadow of the
Ego, projecting itself into space. If, on the contrary, he takes these
psychical states with the particular colouring which they assume in the
case of a definite person, and which comes to each of them by reflection
from all the others, then there is no need to associate a number of
conscious states in order to rebuild the person, for the whole
personality is in a single one of them, provided that we know how to
choose it. And the outward manifestation of this inner state will be
just what is called a free act, since the self alone will have been the
author of it and since it will express the whole of the self."
[Footnote: Time and Free Will, pp. 165-166 (Fr. pp. 126-127).] There is
then room in the universe for a Freedom of the human Will, a definite
creative activity, delivering us from the bonds of grim necessity and
fate in which the physical sciences and the associationist psychology
alike would bind us. Freedom, then, is a fact, and among the facts which
we observe, asserts Bergson, there is none clearer. [Footnote: Time and
Free Will, p. 221 (Fr. p. 169).] There are, however, one or two things
which bear vitally upon the question of Freedom and which tend to
obscure the issue. Of these, the foremost is that once we have acted in
a particular manner we look back upon our actions and try to explain
them with particular reference to their immediate antecedents. Here is
where the mischief which gives rise to the whole controversy has its
origin. We make static what is essentially dynamic in character. We call
a process a thing. There is no such "thing" as Freedom; it is a relation
between the self and its action. Indeed, it is only characteristic of a
self IN ACTION, and so is really indefinable. Viewed after the action,
it presents a different aspect; it has then become historical, an event
in the past, and so we try to explain it as being caused by former
events or conditions. This casting of it on to a fixed, rigid plan,
gives action the appearance of having characteristics related to space
rather than to time, in the real sense. As already shown in the previous
chapter, this is due entirely to our intellectual habit of thinking in
terms of space, by mathematical time, rather than in terms of living
time or la duree.

Another point which causes serious confusion in the controversy is the
notion that because, when an act has been performed, its antecedents may
be reckoned up and their value and relative importance or influence
assigned, this is equivalent to saying the actor could not have acted in
any other way than he did, and, further, that his final act could have
been foretold from the events which led up to it. It is a fact that in
the realm of physical science we can foretell the future with accuracy.
The astronomer predicts the precise moment and place in which Halley's
comet will become visible from our earth. It is also a fact that we say
of men and women who are our intimate friends: "I knew he (or she) would
do such and such a thing" or "It's just like him." We base our judgment
on our intimate acquaintance with the character of our friend, but this,
as Bergson points out, "is not so much to predict the future conduct of
our friend as to pass a judgment on his present character--that is to
say, on his past." [Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 184 (Fr. p. 140).]
For, although our feelings and our ideas are constantly changing, yet we
feel warranted in regarding our friend's character as stable, as
reliable. But, as Mill remarked in his Logic: "There can be no science
of human nature," because, although we trust in the reliability of our
friend, although we have faith in his future actions, we do not, and can
not, know them. "Tout comprendre c'est tout pardonner." To say that, if
we knew all the conditions, motives, fears, and temptations which led up
to the actions of another, we could foretell what he would do, amounts
to saying that, to do so, we should have actually to become that other
person, and so arrive at the point where we act as he did because we are
him. For Paul to foretell Peter's act, Paul would simply have to become
Peter. [Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 187 (Fr. p. 144).] The very
reasons which render it possible to foretell an astronomical phenomenon
are the very ones which prevent us from determining in advance an act
which springs from our free activity. For the future of the material
universe, although contemporaneous with the future of a conscious being,
has no analogy to it. The astronomer regards time from the point of view
of mathematics. He is concerned with points placed in a homogeneous
time, points which mark the beginning or end of certain intervals. He
does not concern himself with the interval in its actual duration. This
is proved by the fact that, could all velocities in the universe be
doubled, the astronomical formulae would remain unaffected, for the
coincidences with which that science deals would still take place, but
at intervals half as long. To the astronomer as such, this would make no
difference, but we, in ourselves, would find that our day did not give
us the full experience. Situations which arose as a result of the
introduction of "summer time" serve to make this point clear. As then we
find that time means two different things for the astronomer and the
psychologist, the one being concerned with the points at the extremities
of intervals, and the other with the enduring reality of the intervals
themselves, we can see why astronomical phenomena are capable of
prediction and see too that, for the same reason, events in the realm of
human action cannot be so predicted and therefore the future is not
predetermined but is being made.

Upon exactly parallel lines lie the references to causality in the
controversy. In the physical realm events may recur, but in the mental
realm the same thing can never happen again because we are living in
real, flowing time, or la duree, and our conscious states are changing.
Admitting that there is that in experience which warrants the
application of the principle of causality, taking that principle as the
statement that physical phenomena once perceived can recur, and that a
given phenomenon, happening only after certain conditions, will recur
when those precise conditions are repeated, [Footnote: See the brief
paper Notre croyance a la loi de causalite, Revue de metaphysique et de
morale, 1900.] still it remains open whether such a regularity of
succession is ever possible in the human consciousness, and so the
assertion of the principle of causality proves nothing against Freedom.
We may admit that the principle is based on experience--but what kind of
experience? Consideration of this question leads us to assert that the
principle of causality only tends to accentuate the difference between
objects in a realm wherein regular succession may be observed and
predicted and a realm where it may not be observed or predicted, the
realm of the self. Just because I endure and change I do not necessarily
act to-day as I acted yesterday, when under like conditions. We do
expect, however, that this will not be the case in the physical realm;
for example, we expect that a flame applied to dry paper will always set
it alight. Indeed, the more we realize the causal relation as one of
necessary determination, we come to see that things do not exist as we
do ourselves, and distinction between physical and psychical events
becomes clear. We perceive that we, in ourselves, are centres of
indetermination enjoying Freedom, and capable of creative activity.

We must, however, be careful to observe that such Freedom as we have is
not absolute at all and that it admits of degrees. All our acts are by
no means free. Indeed, Free Will is exceptional, and many live and die
without having known true Freedom. Our everyday life consists in the
performance of actions which are largely habitual or, indeed, automatic,
being determined not by Free Will, but by custom and convention. Our
Freedom is the exception and not the rule. Through sluggishness or
indolence, we jog on in the even tenor of a way towards which habit has
directed us. Even at times when our whole personality ought to vibrate,
finding itself at the cross-roads, it fails to rise to the occasion.
But, says Bergson, "it is at the great and solemn crises, decisive of
our reputation with others, and yet more with ourselves, that we choose
in defiance of what is conventionally called a motive, and this absence
of any tangible reason, is the more striking the deeper our Freedom
goes." [Footnote: Time and Free Will, p. 170 (Fr. p. 130).] At such
times the self feels itself free and says so, for it feels itself to be
creative. "All determinism will thus be refuted by experience, but every
attempt to define Freedom will open the way to determinism." [Footnote:
Time and Free Will, p. 330 (Fr. p. 177).]

It has been urged that, although Bergson is a stanch upholder of
Freedom, it is Freedom of such a kind that it must be distinguished from
Free Will, that is, from the liberty of choice which indeterminists have
asserted and which determinists have denied; and that the Freedom for
which he holds the brief is not the feeling of liberty that we have when
confronted with alternative courses of action, or the feeling we have
when we look back upon a choice made and an action accomplished, that we
need not have acted as we did, and that we could have acted differently.
Such Freedom it has been further maintained, is of little importance to
us, for it is merely a free, creative activity which is the essence of
life, which we share with all that lives and so cannot be styled "human"
Freedom. Now, although many of Bergson's expressions, in regard to free,
creative activity in general, lead to a connexion of this with the
problem of "human" Freedom, such an identification would seem to be
unfair. This seems specially so when we read over carefully his remarks
about the coup d'etat of the fundamental self in times of grave crisis.
We cannot equate this with a purely biological freedom or vitality, or
spontaneity. But in the light of the criticism which has been made, it
will be well to consider, in concluding this chapter, the statements
made by Bergson in his article on Liberty in the work in connexion with
the Vocabulaire philosophique for the Societe francaise de philosophie:
[Footnote: Quoted by Le Roy in his Une nouvelle philosophie: Henri
Bergson, English Translation (Benson), Williams and Norgate, p. 192.]
"The word Liberty has for me a sense intermediate between those which we
assign, as a rule, to the two terms 'Liberty' and 'Free Will.' On one
hand I believe that 'Liberty' consists in being entirely oneself, in
acting in conformity with oneself; it is then to a certain degree the
'moral liberty' of philosophers, the independence of the person with
regard to everything other than itself. But that is not quite this
Liberty, since the independence I am describing has not always a moral
character. Further, it does not consist in depending on oneself as an
effect depends on the cause which, of necessity, determines it. In this,
I should come back to the sense of 'Free Will.'" And yet, he continues,
"I do not accept this sense either, since Free Will, in the usual
meaning of the term, implies the equal possibility of two contraries,
and, on my theory, we cannot formulate or even conceive, in this case,
the thesis of the equal possibility of the two contraries, without
falling into grave error about the nature of Time. The object of my
thesis has been precisely to find a position intermediate between 'moral
Liberty' and 'Free Will.' Liberty, such as I understand it, is situated
between these two terms, but not at equal distances from both; if I were
obliged to blend it with one of the two, I should select 'Free-Will.'"
Nor is Liberty to be reduced to spontaneity. "At most, this would be the
case in the animal world where the psychological life is principally
that of the affections. But in the case of a man, a thinking being, the
free act can be called a synthesis of feelings and ideas, and the
evolution which leads to it, a reasonable evolution." [Footnote: Matter
and Memory, p. 243 (Fr. p. 205).] "In a word, if it is agreed to call
every act free, which springs from the self, and from the self alone,
the act which bears the mark of our personality is truly free, for our
self alone will lay claim to its paternity." [Footnote: Time and Free
Will, p. 172 (Fr. p. 132). It is interesting to compare with this the
remark by Nietzsche in Also sprach Zarathustra, Thus Spake
Zarathustra,--"Let your Ego be in relation to your acts that which the
mother is in relation to the child."] The secret of the solution lies
surely here, and in the words given above: "Liberty consists in being
entirely oneself." If we act rightly we shall act freely, and yet be
determined. Yet here there will be no contradiction, for we shall be
self-determined. It is only the man who is self-determined that can in
any sense be said to know the meaning of "human" Freedom. "We call
free," said Spinoza, "that which exists in virtue of the necessities of
its own nature, and which is determined by itself alone." Liberty is not
absolute, for then we ourselves would be at the beck and call of every
external excitation, desire, passion, or temptation. Our salvation
consists in self-determination, so we shall avoid licence but preserve
Freedom. We can only repeat the Socratic maxim--"Know thyself"--and
resolve to take to heart the appeal of our own Shakespeare:

    "To thine own self be true!"




CHAPTER VIII

EVOLUTION


Work of Darwin and Spencer--Bergson's L'Evolution creatrice--Life--
L'elan vital--Evolution not progress in a straight line--Adaptation an
insufficient explanation--Falsity of mechanistic view--Finalist
conception of reality as fulfilling a plan false--Success along certain
lines only--Torpor, Instinct, and Intelligence--Genesis of matter--
Humanity the crown of evolution--Contingency and Freedom--The Future is
being created.


Since the publication of Darwin's famous work on The Origin of Species
in 1859, the conception of Evolution has become familiar and has won
general acceptance in all thinking minds. Evolution is now a household
word, but the actual study of evolutionary process has been the work of
comparatively few. Science nowadays has become such a highly specialized
affair, that few men cover a large enough field of study to enable them
to deal effectively with this tremendous subject. What is more, those
who shouted so loudly about Evolution as explaining all things have come
to see that, in a sense, Evolution explains nothing by itself. Mere
description of facts undoubtedly does serve a very useful purpose and
may help to demolish some of the stanchly conservative theories still
held in some quarters by those who prefer to take Hebrew conceptions as
a basis of their cosmology however irreconcilable with fact these may
prove to be. Mere description, however, is not ultimate, some philosophy
of Evolution must be forthcoming. "Nowadays," remarks Hoffding, "every
philosopher has to take up a position with respect to the concept of
Evolution. It has now achieved its place among the categories or
essential forms of thought by the fact of its providing indications
whence new problems proceed. We must ask regarding every event, and
every phenomenon, by what stages it has passed into its actual state. It
is a special form of the general concept of cause. A philosophy is
essentially characterized by the position which it accords to this
concept and by the way in which it applies it." [Footnote: The
Philosophy of Evolution--lecture IV, of Lectures on Bergson, in Modern
Philosophers, Translated by Mason (MacMillan), p. 270.]

No one has done more to make familiar to English minds the notion of
Evolution than Herbert Spencer. His Synthetic Philosophy had a grand
aim, but it was manifestly unsatisfactory. The high hopes it had raised
were followed by mingled disappointment and distrust. The secret of the
unsatisfactoriness of Spencer is to be found in his method, which is an
elaborate and plausible attempt to explain the evolution of the universe
by referring the complex to the simple, the more highly organized to the
less organized. His principle of Evolution never freed itself from
bondage to mechanical conceptions.

Bergson's Creative Evolution, his largest and best known work, appeared
in 1907. It has been regarded not only as a magnificent book, but as a
date in the history of thought. Two of the leading students of
evolutionary process in England, Professors Geddes and Thomson, refer to
the book as "one of the most profound and original contributions to the
philosophical consideration of the theory of Evolution." [Footnote: In
the Bibliography in their volume Evolution.]

For some time there had been growing a need for an expression of
evolutionary theory in terms other than those of Spencer, or of Haeckel-
-the German monistic philosopher. The advance in the study of biology
and the rise of Neo-Vitalism, occasioned by an appreciation of the
inadequacy of any explanation of life in terms purely physical and
chemical, made the demand for a new statement, in greater harmony with
these views, imperative. To satisfy this demand is the task to which
Bergson has applied himself. He sounds the note of departure from the
older conceptions right at the commencement by his very title,
'Creative' Evolution. For this, his views on Change, on Time, and on
Freedom, have in some degree prepared us. We have seen set forth the
fact of Freedom, the recognition of human beings as centres of
indetermination, not mere units in a machine, "a block universe" where
all is "given," but creatures capable of creative activity. Then by a
consideration of Time, as la duree, we found that the history of an
individual can never repeat itself; "For a conscious being, to exist is
to change, to change is to mature, to mature is to go on creating
oneself endlessly. Should the same be said," Bergson asks, "of existence
in general?" [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 8 (Fr. p. 8).]

So he proceeds to portray with a wealth of analogy and brilliance of
style, more akin to the language of a poet than a philosopher, the
stupendous drama of Evolution, the mystery of being, the wonders of
life. He makes the great fact of life his starting point. Is life
susceptible to definition? We feel that, by the very nature of the case,
it is not. A definition is an intellectual operation, while life is
wider, richer, more fundamental than intellect. Indeed Bergson shows us
that intellect is only one of the manifestations or adaptations of life
in its progress. To define life, being strictly impossible, Bergson
attempts to describe it. He would have us picture it as a great current
emerging from some central point, radiating in all directions, but
diverted into eddies and backwaters. Life is an original impetus, une
poussee formidable, not the mere heading affixed to a class of objects
which live. We must not speak any longer of life in general as an
abstraction or a category in which we may place all living beings. Life,
or the vital impulse, consists in a demand for creation, we might almost
say "a will to create." It appears to be a current passing from one germ
to another through the medium of a developed organism, "an internal push
that has carried life by more and more complex forms, to higher and
higher destinies." It is a dynamic continuity, a continuity of
qualitative progress, a duration which leaves its bite on things.
[Footnote: For these descriptions of life, see Creative Evolution, pp.
27-29 and 93-94 (Fr. pp. 28-30 and 95-96).] We shall be absolutely
wrong, however, if we attempt to view the evolutionary process as
progressive in a straight line. The facts contradict such a facile and
shallow view. Some of the stock phrases of the earlier writers on
Evolution were: "adaptation to environment," "selection" and
"variation," and a grave problem was presented by this last. How are we
to account for the variations of living beings, together with the
persistence of their type? Herein lies the problem of the origin of
species. Three different solutions have been put forward. There is the
"Neo-Darwinian" view which attributes variation to the differences
inherent in the germ borne by the individual, and not to the experience
or behaviour of the individual in the course of his existence. Then
there is the theory known as "Orthogenesis" which maintains that there
is a continual changing in a definite direction from generation to
generation. Thirdly, there is the "Neo-Lamarckian" theory which
attributes the cause of variation to the conscious effort of the
individual, an effort passed on to descendants. [Footnote: Concerning
Lamarck (1744-1829) Bergson remarks in La Philosophie (1915) that
without diminishing Darwin's merit Lamarck is to be regarded as the
founder of evolutionary biology.] Now each one of these theories
explains a certain group of facts, of a limited kind, but two
difficulties confront them. We find that on quite distinct and widely
separated lines of Evolution, exactly similar organs have been
developed. Bergson points out to us, in this connexion, the Pecten genus
of molluscs, which have an eye identical in structure with that of the
eye of vertebrates. [Footnote: The common edible scallop (Pecten
maximus) has several eyes of brilliant blue and of very complex
structure.] It is obvious, however, that the eye of this mollusc and the
eye of the vertebrate must have developed quite independently, ages
after each had been separated from the parent stock. Again, we find that
in all organic evolution, infinite complexity of structure accompanies
the utmost simplicity of function. The variation of an organ so highly
complex as the eye must involve the simultaneous occurrence of an
infinite number of variations all co-ordinated to the simple end of
vision. Such facts as these are incapable of explanation by reference to
any or all of the three theories of adaptation and variation mentioned.
Indeed they seem capable of explanation only by reference to a single
original impetus retaining its direction in courses far removed from the
common origin. "That adaptation to environment is the necessary
condition of Evolution we do not question for a moment. It is quite
evident that a species would disappear, should it fail to bend to the
conditions of existence which are imposed on it. But it is one thing to
recognize that outer circumstances are forces Evolution must reckon
with, another to claim that they are the directing causes of Evolution."
[Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 107 (Fr. p. 111).]

"The truth is that adaptation explains the sinuosities of the movement
of Evolution, but not the general directions of the movement, still less
the movement itself. The road which leads to the town is obliged to
follow the ups and downs of the hills; it adapts itself to the accidents
of the ground, but the accidents of the ground are not the cause of the
road nor have they given it its direction." [Footnote: Creative
Evolution, p. 108 (Fr. p. 112).] The evolution of life cannot be
explained as merely a series of adaptations to accidental circumstances.
Moreover, the mechanistic view, where all is "given," is quite
inadequate to explain the facts. The finalist or teleological conception
is not any more tenable, for Evolution is not simply the realization of
a plan. "A plan is given in advance. It is represented or at least
representable, before its realization. The complete execution of it may
be put off to a distant future or even indefinitely, but the idea is
none the less formulable at the present time, in terms actually given.
If, on the contrary, Evolution is a creation unceasingly renewed, it
creates as it goes on, not only the forms of life but the ideas that
enable the intellect to understand it. Its future overflows its present
and cannot be sketched out therein, in an idea. There is the first error
of finalism. It involves another yet more serious. If life realizes a
plan it ought to manifest a greater harmony the further it advances,
just as the house shows better and better the idea of the architect as
stone is set upon stone." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 108 (Fr. p.
112).] Such finalism is really reversed mechanism. If, on the contrary,
the unity of life is to be found solely in the impetus (poussee
formidable) that pushes it along the road of Time, the harmony is not in
front but behind. The unity is derived from a vis a tergo: it is given
at the start as an impulsion, not placed at the end as an attraction, as
a kind of

     "... far-off divine event
      To which the whole creation moves."

"In communicating itself the impetus splits up more and more. Life, in
proportion to its progress, is scattered in manifestations which
undoubtedly owe to their common origin the fact that they are
complementary to each other in certain aspects, but which are none the
less mutually incompatible and antagonistic. So that the discord between
species will go on increasing." "There are species which are arrested,
there are some that retrogress. Evolution is not only a movement
forward; in many cases we observe a marking-time, and still more often a
deviation or turning back. Thence results an increasing disorder. No
doubt there is progress, if progress means a continual advance in the
general direction determined by a first impulsion; but this progress is
accomplished only on the two or three great lines of Evolution on which
forms ever more and more complex, ever more and more high, appear;
between these lines run a crowd of minor paths in which deviations,
arrests, and set-backs are multiplied." [Footnote: Creative Evolution,
pp. 107-110 (Fr. pp. 111-114).] Evolution would be a very simple and
easy process to understand if it followed one straight path. To describe
it, Bergson uses, in one place, this metaphor: "We are here dealing with
a shell which has immediately burst into fragments, which, being
themselves species of shells, have again burst into fragments, destined
to burst again, and so on." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 103 (Fr.
p. 107).]

A study of the facts shows us three very marked tendencies which may be
denoted by the terms "Torpor," "Instinct," and "Intelligence." These
are, in a sense "terminal points" in the evolutionary process. Hence
arises the distinction of plant and animal, one showing a tendency to
unconscious torpor, the other manifesting a tendency towards movement
and consciousness. Then again arises another divergence which gives rise
to two paths or tendencies, one along the line of the arthropods, at the
end of which come the ants and the bees with their instincts, and the
other along the line of the vertebrates, at the end of which is man with
his intelligence. These three, Torpor, Instinct, and Intelligence, must
not, however, be looked upon as three successive stages in the linear
development of one tendency, but as three diverging directions of a
common activity, which split up as it went on its way. Instinct and
Intelligence are the two important terminal points in Evolution. They
are not two stages of which one is higher than the other, they are at
the end of two different roads. The wonders of Instinct are a
commonplace to students of animal and insect life. [Footnote: See the
interesting books by the French writer, Henri Fabre.] Men, with their
intellect, make tools, while Instinct is tied to its tool. There is a
wondrous immediacy, however, about Instinct, in the way it achieves
ends, and its operations are often quite unconsciously performed. The
insect or animal could not possibly "know" all that was involved in its
action. Instinct, then, is one form of adaptation, while Intellect is
quite another. In man--the grown man--Intellect is seen at its best. Yet
we are not without Instincts; by them we are bound to the race and to
the whole animal creation. But in ants and bees and such like creatures,
Instinct is the sole guide of life, and it is often a highly organized
life. The following example clearly shows the contrast between Instinct
and Intelligence. A cat knows how to manage her new-born kittens, how to
bring them up and teach them; a human mother does not know how to manage
her baby unless she is trained either directly or by her own quick
observation of other mothers. A cat performs her simple duties by
Instinct, a human mother has to make use of her Intelligence in order to
fulfil her very complex duties. We must observe, however, the relative
value of Instinct and Intelligence. Each is a psychical activity, but
while Instinct is far more perfect, far more complete in its insight, it
is confined within narrow limits. Intelligence, while far less perfect
in accomplishing its work, less complete in insight, is not limited in
such a way. But while Intellect is external, looking on reality as
different from life, Instinct is an inner sympathy with reality; it is
deeper than any intellectual bond which binds the conscious creature to
reality, for it is a vital bond.

Bergson now turns to a consideration of Life and Matter in the
evolutionary process, and their precise relation to one another. Life is
free, spontaneous, incalculable, not out of relation to Matter, but its
direction is not entirely determined by Matter nor has its initial
impulse Matter as its source. Although Bergson denies that Will and
Consciousness, as we know them, are mere functions of the material
organism, yet they do depend upon it as a workman depends upon his tool.
We are fond of insinuating that a bad workman always blames his tools. A
good workman, however, cannot be expected to do the best work with bad
tools. The tool, although he uses it, at the same time limits him. So it
is with the material organism at our disposal, our body, and so, too,
with spirit and matter in general. Spirit and Matter are not to be
regarded as independent or as ranged against one another from all
eternity. Matter is a product of Spirit or Consciousness, the underlying
psychic force. "For want of a better word," says Bergson, "we have
called it Consciousness. But we do not mean the narrowed consciousness
that functions in each of us." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 250
(Fr. p. 258).] It is rather super-Consciousness than a consciousness
like ours. Matter is a flux rather than a thing, but its flow is in the
opposite direction to that of Spirit. The flow of Spirit shows itself in
the creativeness of the evolutionary process; Matter is the inverse
movement towards stability. Bergson adheres to the view of Spirit as
fundamental, while Matter, he says, is due to a lessening of the tension
of the spiritual force which is the initial elan. Now, of course, Matter
and Spirit have come to be two opposing forces, for one is determined
and the other free. Yet Bergson has to make out that there must have
been some indetermination in Matter, however small, to give Spirit an
opening to "insinuate itself" into Matter and thus use it for its own
ends. It always seems, however, as if Spirit were trying to free itself
from material limitations. It evolved the Intellect to cope with Matter.
This is why Reason is at home, not in life and freedom, but in solid
Matter, in mechanical and spatial distinctions. There is thus an eternal
conflict in progress between Spirit and Matter. The latter is always
tending to automatism, to the sacrifice of the Spirit with its creative
power. In his little book on The Meaning of the War Bergson claims that
here we have an instance of Life and Matter in conflict--Germany
representing a mechanical and materialistic force. In quite another way
he illustrates the same truth, in his book on Laughter, where he shows
us that "rigidity, automatism, absent-mindedness, and unsociability, are
all inextricably entwined, and all serve as ingredients to the making up
of the comic in character," [Footnote: Laughter, p. 147 (Fr. p. 151).]
for "the comic is that side of a person which reveals his likeness to a
thing, that aspect of human events which, through its peculiar
inelasticity, conveys the impression of pure mechanism, of automatism,
of movement without life." [Footnote: Laughter, p. 87 (Fr. p. 89).]

Finally, in reviewing the evolutionary process as a whole, Bergson
asserts that it manifests a radical contingency. The forms of life
created, also the proportion of Intuition to Intelligence, in man, and
the physique and morality of man, are all of them contingent. Life might
have stored up energy in a different way through plants selecting
different chemical elements. The whole of organic chemistry would then
have been different. Then, too, it is probable that Life manifests
itself in other planets, in other solar systems also, in forms of which
we have no idea. He points out that between the perfect humanity and
ours one may conceive many possible intermediaries, corresponding to all
the degrees imaginable of Intelligence and Intuition. Another solution
might have issued in a humanity either more intelligent or more
intuitive. Man has warred like the other species, he has warred against
the other species. If the evolution of life had been opposed by
different accidents en route, if the current of life had been divided
otherwise, we should have been, in physique and in morality, very
different from what we are. [Footnote: Creative Evolution, pp. 280-282
(Fr. p. 288-290).] We cannot regard humanity as prefigured in the
evolutionary process, nor look on man as the ultimate outcome of the
whole of Evolution. The rest of Nature does not exist simply for the
sake of man. Certainly man stands highest, for only in man has
consciousness succeeded, but man has, as it were, lost much in coming to
this position. The whole process of Evolution "IS AS IF A VAGUE AND
FORMLESS BEING, WHOM WE MAY CALL, AS WE WILL, man OR super-man, HAD
SOUGHT TO REALIZE HIMSELF AND HAD SUCCEEDED ONLY BY ABANDONING A PART OF
HIMSELF ON THE WAY." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 281 (Fr. p. 289).
(Italics are Bergson's.)]

In the lectures on The Nature of the Soul, Bergson referred to the
"Pathway of the evolutionary process" as being a "Way to Personality."
For on the line which leads to man liberation has been accomplished and
thus personalities have been able to constitute themselves. If we could
view this line of evolution it would appear to resemble a telegraph wire
on which has travelled a dispatch sent off as long ago as the first
beginnings of life, a message which was then confused, of which a part
has been lost on the way, but which has at last found in the human race
the appropriate instrument.

Humanity is one; we are members one of another. Bergson insists on this
solidarity of man, and, indeed, of all living creatures. "As the
smallest grain of dust is bound up with our entire solar system, drawn
along with it in that undivided movement of descent which is materiality
itself, so all organized beings, from the humblest to the highest, from
the first origins of life to the time in which we are, and in all places
as in all times, do but evidence a single impulsion, the inverse of the
movement of matter, and in itself indivisible. All the living hold
together and all yield to the same tremendous push. The animal takes its
stand on the plant, man bestrides animality, and the whole of humanity,
in space and in time, is one immense army galloping beside and before
and behind each of us, in an overwhelming charge, able to beat down
every resistance and clear the most formidable obstacles, perhaps even
death." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, pp. 285-286 (Fr. pp. 293-294).]




CHAPTER IX

THE GOSPEL OF INTUITION


Intelligence and Intuition not opposed--Intellectual sympathy--Synthesis
and analysis. "Understanding as one loves"--Concepts--Intellect not
final--Man's spirit and intuitions--Joy, creative power and art--Value
of Intuitive Philosophy.


We now approach the grand climax of Bergson's philosophy, his doctrine
of Intuition, which he preaches with all the vigour of an evangelist.
Our study of his treatment of Change, of Perception, of la duree, and of
Instinct, has prepared us for an investigation of what he means by
Intuition, for in dealing with these subjects he has been laying the
foundations of his doctrine of Intuition. He pointed out to us that Life
is Change, but that our intellect does not really grasp the reality of
Change, for it is adapted to solids and to concepts, it resembles the
cinematograph film. Then he has tried to show us that in Perception
there is really much more than we think, for our intellect carves out
what is of practical interest, while the penumbra or vague fringes of
perceptions which have no bearing on action are neglected. By his
advocacy of a real psychological Time, in opposition to the physical
abstraction which bears the name, he again brought out the inadequacy of
intellect to grasp Life in its flow and has put before us the soul's own
appreciation of Time, which is a valuation rather than a magnitude, an
intuition of our consciousness. Then, in examining the Evolution of
Instinct and Intelligence, we found that Instinct, however blind
intellectually, contained a wonderful and unique element of immediacy or
direct insight. These are just preparatory indications of the direction
of Bergson's thought all the time.

It is admittedly difficult to determine with very great definiteness
what Bergson's view of Intuition really is, for he has made many
statements regarding it which appear at first sight irreconcilable and,
in his earlier writings, has not been sufficiently careful when speaking
of the distinction between Intelligence and Intuition. Some of his early
statements are reactionary and crude and give the impression of a purely
anti-intellectualist position involving the condemnation of Intellect
and all its work. [Footnote: E.g., the statement "To philosophize is to
invert the habitual direction of the work of thought"--Introduction to
Metaphysics p. 59.] In his later work, however, Bergson has made it more
clear that he does not mean to throw Intellect overboard; it has its
place, but is not final, nor is it the supreme human faculty which most
philosophers have thought it to be. It must be lamented, however, that
Bergson's language was ever so ill defined as to encourage the many
varied and conflicting views which are held regarding his doctrine of
Intuition. Around this the greatest controversy has raged. Little is to
be gained by heeding the shouts of either those who acclaim Bergson as a
revolutionary against all use of the Intellect, or of those who regard
him as no purely anti-intellectualist at all. We must turn to Bergson
himself and study carefully what he has said and written, reserving our
judgment until we have examined his own statements.

What is this "Intuition"? In what is now a locus classicus [Footnote:
Introduction to Metaphysics, p. 7.] he says, "By Intuition is meant the
kind of INTELLECTUAL SYMPATHY by which one places oneself within an
object in order to coincide with what is unique in it and consequently
inexpressible. Analysis is the operation which reduces the object to
elements already known, that is, to elements common to it and other
objects. To analyse, therefore, is to express a thing as a function of
something other than itself. All analysis is thus a translation, a
development into symbols, a representation taken from successive points
of view from which we note as many resemblances as possible between the
new object which we are studying and others which we believe we know
already. In its eternally unsatisfied desire to embrace the object
around which it is compelled to turn, analysis multiplies without end
the number of its points of view in order to complete its always
incomplete representation, and ceaselessly varies its symbols that it
may perfect the always imperfect translation. It goes on therefore to
infinity. But Intuition, if Intuition be possible, is a simple act. It
is an act directly opposed to analysis, for it is a viewing in totality,
as an absolute; it is a synthesis, not an analysis, not an intellectual
act, for it is an immediate, emotional synthesis.

Two illustrations, taken from the same essay, may serve to make this
point clearer. A visitor in Paris, of an artistic temperament, makes
some sketches of the city, writing underneath them, by way of memento,
the word "Paris." As he has actually seen Paris he is able, with the
help of the original Intuition he has had of that unique whole which is
Paris itself, to place his sketches therein, and synthesize them. But
there is no way of performing the inverse operation. It is impossible,
even with thousands of sketches, to achieve the Intuition, to give
oneself the impression of what Paris is like, if one has never been
there. Or again, as a second illustration, "Consider a character whose
adventures are related to me in a novel. The author may multiply the
traits of his hero's character, may make him speak and act as much as he
pleases, but all this can never be equivalent to the simple and
indivisible feeling which I should experience if I were able, for an
instant, to identify myself with the person of the hero himself. Out of
that indivisible feeling, as from a spring, all the words, gestures, and
actions of the man would appear to me to flow naturally. They would no
longer be accidents which, added to the idea I had already formed of the
character, continually enriched that idea without ever completing it.
The character would be given to me all at once, in its entirety, and the
thousand incidents which manifest it, instead of adding themselves to
the idea and so enriching it, would seem to me, on the contrary, to
detach themselves from it, without, however, exhausting it or
impoverishing its essence. All the things I am told about the man
provide me with so many points of view from which I can observe him. All
the traits which describe him and which can make him known to me, only
by so many comparisons with persons or things I know already, are signs
by which he is expressed more or less symbolically. Symbols and points
of view, therefore, place me outside him; they give me only what he has
in common with others, and not what belongs to him, and to him alone.
But that which is properly 'himself,' that which constitutes his
essence, cannot be perceived from without, being internal by definition,
nor be expressed by symbols, being incommensurable with everything else.
Description, history, and analysis leave me here in the relative.
Coincidence with the person himself would alone give me the absolute."
[Footnote: An Introduction to Metaphysics, p. 3.] This, as Gaston Rageot
puts it, is "to understand in the fashion in which one loves." This
statement is of suggestive interest in considering the practical problem
of how we may be said to "know" other people, and has vital bearing on
the revelation of one personality to another, urging, as it does, the
value and necessity of some degree of sympathy and indeed of love, for
the full understanding and knowledge of any personality.

In another place Bergson says: "When a poet reads me his verses, I can
interest myself enough in him to enter into his thought, put myself into
his feelings, live over again the simple state he has broken into
phrases and words. I sympathize then with his inspiration, I follow it
with a continuous movement which is, like the inspiration itself, an
undivided act." If this sympathy could extend its object and so reflect
upon itself, it would give us the key to vital operations in the same
way as Intelligence, developed and corrected, introduces us into Matter.
Intelligence, by the intermediary of science, which is its work, tells
more and more completely the secret of physical operations; of Life it
gives and pretends only to give an expression in terms of inertia. We
should be led into the very interior of Life by Intuition, that is, by
Instinct become disinterested, conscious of itself, capable of
reflecting on its object and enlarging it indefinitely.

In proclaiming the gospel of Intuition, Bergson's main point is to show
that man is capable of an experience and a knowledge deeper than that
which the Intellect can possibly give. "At intervals a soul arises which
seems to triumph... by dint of simplicity--the soul of an artist or a
poet, which, remaining near its source, reconciles, in a harmony
appreciable by the heart, terms irreconcilable by the intelligence"
[Footnote: From the address on Ravaisson, delivered before the Academie
des Sciences morales et politiques 1904.] His point of view is here akin
to that of an earlier French thinker, Pascal, who said: "The heart hath
reasons that the reason cannot know." The Intellect is, by its nature,
the fabricator of concepts, and concepts are, in Bergson's view,
mischievous. They are static, they leave out the flux of things, they
omit too much of experience, they are framed at an expensive cost, the
expense of vital contact with Life itself. Of course he admits a certain
value in concepts, but he refuses to admit that they help us at all to
grasp reality in its flux. "Metaphysics must transcend concepts in order
to reach Intuition. Certainly concepts are necessary to it, for all the
other sciences work, as a rule, with concepts, and Metaphysics cannot
dispense with the other sciences. But it is only truly itself when it
goes beyond the concept, or at least when it frees itself from rigid and
ready-made concepts, in order to create a kind very different from those
which we habitually use; I mean supple, mobile, and almost fluid
representations, always ready to mould themselves on the fleeting forms
of Intuition." [Footnote: An Introduction to Metaphysics, p. 18.]

The true instrument of Metaphysics is intuition. We can only grasp
ourselves, Bergson points out, by a metaphysical Intuition, for the soul
eludes thought; we cannot place it among concepts or in a category.
Intuition, however, reveals to us Real Time (la duree) and our real
selves, changing and living as free personalities in a Time which, as it
advances, creates.

Intuition is in no way mysterious, Bergson claims. Every one of us has
had opportunities to exercise it in some degree, and anyone, for
example, who has been engaged in literary work, knows perfectly well
that after long study has been given to the subject, when all documents
have been collected and necessary drafts worked out, one thing more is
needful--an effort, a travail of soul, a setting of oneself in the heart
of the subject; in short, the getting of inspiration. Metaphysical
Intuition seems to be of this nature, and its relation to the empirical
data contributed by the Intellect is parallel to the relation between
the literary man's inspiration and his collected material. Of course "it
is impossible to have an Intuition of reality, that is, an intellectual
sympathy, with its innermost nature, unless its confidence has been won
by a long comradeship with its external manifestation." In his study of
Lucretius [Footnote: Extraits de Lucrece avec etude sur la poesie, la
philosophie, la physique le texte et la langue de Lucrece (1884).
Preface, p. xx.] he remarks that the chief value of the Latin poet-
philosopher lay in his power of vision, in his insight into the beauty
of nature, in his synthetic view, while at the same time he was able to
exercise his keenly analytic intellect in discovering all he could about
the facts of nature in their scientific aspect. At the same time,
metaphysical Intuition, although only to be obtained through
acquaintance with empirical data, is quite other than the mere summary
of such knowledge. [Footnote: See protest: L'Intuition philosophique in
Revue de metaphysique et de morale, 1911, p. 821.] It is distinct from
these data, as the motor impulse is distinct from the path traversed by
the moving body, as the tension of the spring is distinct from the
visible movements of the pendulum. In this sense Metaphysics has nothing
in common with a generalization of facts. It might, however, be defined
as "integral experience." Nevertheless Intuition, once attained, must
find a mode of expression in well-defined concepts, for in itself it is
incommunicable. Dialectic is necessary to put Intuition to the proof,
necessary also in order that Intuition should break itself up into
concepts and so be propagated to others. But when we use language and
concepts to communicate it, we tend to make these in themselves mean
something, whereas they are but counters or symbols used to express what
is their inspiration--Intuition. Hence we often forget the metaphysical
Intuitions from which science itself has sprung. What is relative in
science is the symbolic knowledge, reached by pre-existing concepts
which proceed from the fixed to the moving. A truly intuitive philosophy
would bring science and metaphysics together. Modern science dates from
the day when mobility was set up as an independent reality and studied
as such by Galileo. But men of science have mainly fixed their attention
on the concepts, the residual products of Intuition, the symbols which
have lent a symbolic character to every kind of science. Metaphysicians,
too, have done the same thing. Hence it was easy for Kant to show that
our science is wholly relative and our metaphysics entirely artificial.
For Kant, science was a universal mathematic and metaphysics a
practically unaltered Platonism. The synthetic Intuition was hidden by
the analysis to which it had given rise. For Kant, Intuition was infra-
intellectual, but for Bergson it is supra-intellectual. Kant's great
error was in concluding that it is necessary for us, in order to attain
Intuition, to leave the domain of the senses and of consciousness. This
was because of his views of Time and Change. If Time and Change really
were what he took them to be, then Metaphysics and Intuition alike are
impossible. For Bergson, however, Time and Change lead up to Intuition;
indeed it is by Intuition that we come to see all things, as he
expresses it, sub specie durationis. This is the primary vision which an
intuitive philosophy supplies. Such a philosophy will not be merely a
unification of the sciences.

In an article contributed to the Revue de metaphysique et de morale in
January of 1908, under the title L'Evolution de l'intelligence
geometrique, we find Bergson remarking: "Nowhere have I claimed that we
should replace intelligence by something else, or prefer instinct to it.
I have tried to show merely that when we leave the region of physical
and mathematical objects for the realm of life and consciousness, we
have to depend on a certain sense of living, which has its origin in the
same vital impulse that is the basis of instinct, although instinct,
strictly speaking, is something quite different."

Intellect and Intuition, Bergson says very emphatically, at the close of
his Huxley Lecture on Life and Consciousness, are not opposed to one
another. "How could there be a disharmony between our Intuitions and our
Science, how, especially, could our Science make us renounce our
Intuition, if these Intuitions are something like Instinct--an Instinct
conscious, refined, spiritualized--and if Instinct is still nearer Life
than Intellect and Science? Intuition and Intellect do not oppose each
other, save where Intuition refuses to become more precise by coming
into touch with facts, scientifically studied, and where Intellect,
instead of confining itself to Science proper (that is, to what can be
inferred from facts, or proved by reasoning), combines with this an
unconscious and inconsistent metaphysic which in vain lays claim to
scientific pretensions. The future seems to belong to a philosophy which
will take into account the whole of what is given." [Footnote: Life and
Consciousness, as reported in The Hibbert Journal, Vol. X, Oct., 1911,
pp. 24-44.] Intuition, to be fruitful, must interact with Intellect. It
has the direct insight of Instinct, but its range is widened in
proportion as it blends with Intellect. To imagine that the acceptance
of the gospel of Intuition means the setting aside of all valuation in
regard to the Intellect and its work would be preposterous. Bergson,
however unguarded his language at times has been, does not mean this. He
does not mean that we must return to the standpoint of the animal or
that we must assume that the animal view, which is instinctive, is
higher than the view which, through Intellect, gives it a meaning and
value to the percipient. That would involve the rejection of all that
our culture has accumulated, all our social heritage from the past, the
overthrow of our civilization, the undoing of all that has developed in
our world, since man's Intelligence came into it. We cannot obtain
Intuition without intellectual labour, for it must have an intellectual
or scientific basis. Yet, however valuable Intellect is, it is not
final. "It is reality itself, in the profoundest meaning of the word,
that we reach by the combined and progressive development of science and
philosophy." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 210 (Fr. p. 217).] We
need, therefore, if we are to get into touch with the deeper aspects of
reality, something more than bare science. We cannot live on its dry
bread alone; we need philosophy--an intuitional philosophy.

In his brilliant paper L'Intuition philosophique Bergson shows us, by a
splendid study of Berkeley and Spinoza, that the great Intuition
underlying the thought of a philosopher is of more worth to the world
than the logic and dialectic through the aid of which it is made
manifest, and elaborated. [Footnote: He makes this clear in a letter to
Dr. Mitchell in the latter's Studies in Bergson's Philosophy, p. 31.]
Then in the Lectures La Perception du Changement and in his little work
on Laughter he sets forth the meaning of Intuition in relation to Art.
From time to time Nature raises up souls more or less detached from
practical life, seers of visions and dreamers of dreams, men of
Intuition, with powers of great poetry, great music, or great painting.
The clearest evidence of Intuition comes to us from the works of these
great artists. What is it that we call the "genius" of great painters,
great musicians, and great poets? It is simply the power they have of
seeing more than we see and of enabling us, by their expressions, to
penetrate further into reality ourselves. What makes the picture is the
artist's vision, his entry into the subject by sympathy or Intuition,
and however imperfectly he expresses this, yet he reveals to us more
than we could otherwise have perceived.

The original form of consciousness, Bergson asserts, was nearer to
Intuition than to Intelligence. But man has found Intellect the more
valuable faculty for practical use and so has used it for the solution
of questions it was never intended to solve, by reason of its nature and
origin. Yet "Intuition is there, but vague and, above all,
discontinuous. It is a lamp almost extinguished which only glimmers now
and then for a few moments at most. But it glimmers whenever a vital
interest is at stake. On our personality, on our liberty, on the place
we occupy in the whole of Nature, on our origin, and perhaps also on our
destiny, it throws a light, feeble and vacillating, but which, none the
less, pierces the darkness of the night in which the Intellect leaves
us." [Footnote: Creative Evolution, p. 282 (Fr. p. 290).]

Science promises us well-being, or, at the most, pleasure, but
philosophy, through the Intuition to which it leads us, is capable of
bestowing upon us Joy. The future belongs to such an intuitive
philosophy, Bergson holds, for he considers that the whole progress of
Evolution is towards the creation of a type of being whose Intuition
will be equal to his Intelligence. Finally, by Intuition we shall find
ourselves in--to invent a word--"intunation" with the elan vital, with
the Evolution of the whole universe, and this absolute feeling of "at-
one-ment" with the universe will result in that emotional synthesis
which is deep Joy, which Wordsworth describes as:

                                   "that blessed mood
      In which the burthen of the mystery,
      In which the heavy and the weary weight
      Of all this unintelligible world,
      Is lightened:--that serene and blessed mood,
      In which the affections gently lead us on,--
      Until, the breath of this corporeal frame
      And even the motion of our human blood
      Almost suspended, we are laid asleep
      In body, and become a living soul:
      While with an eye made quiet by the power
      Of harmony and the deep power of joy
      We see into the life of things."




CHAPTER X

ETHICAL AND POLITICAL IMPLICATIONS


Anti-intellectualism and the State--Syndicalism--Class war, "direct
action." Sorel advocates General Strike--Bergson cited in support--
Unfair use of Bergson's view of reality--His ethic--Value of Will and
Creativeness; not a supporter of impulse. Development of personality.
Intuitive mind of woman. Change and the moral life.


Bergson has not written explicitly upon Ethics. In some quarters,
however, so much has been made of Bergson as a supporter of certain
ethical tendencies and certain social movements, that we must examine
this question of ethical and political implications and try to ascertain
how far this use of Bergson is justified.

Both ethical and political thought to-day are deriving fresh stimulation
from the revision of many formulae, the modification of many conceptions
which the War has inevitably caused. At the same time the keen interest
taken in studies like social psychology and political philosophy
combines with a growing interest in movements such as Guild Socialism
and Syndicalism. The current which in philosophy sets against
intellectualism, in the political realm sets against the State. This
political anti-intellectualism shows a definite tendency to belittle the
State in comparison with economic or social groups. "If social
psychology tends to base the State as it is, on other than intellectual
grounds, Syndicalism is prone to expect that non-intellectual forces
will suffice to achieve the State as it should be." [Footnote: Ernest
Barker in his Political Thought in England from Herbert Spencer to the
Present Day, p. 248.] Other tendencies of the same type are noticeable.
For example, Mr. Bertrand Russell's work on The Principles of Social
Reconstruction is based on the view that impulse is a larger factor in
our social life than conscious purpose.

The Syndicalists have been citing the philosophy of Bergson in support
of their views, and it is most interesting to see how skilfully at times
sayings of Bergson are quoted by them as authoritative, as justification
for their actions, in a spirit akin to that of the devout man who quotes
scripture texts as a guide to conduct.

In this country, Syndicalism has not been popular, and when it did show
its head the government promptly prosecuted the editor and printers of
its organ, The Syndicalist, and suppressed the paper owing to its
aggressive anti-militarism. [Footnote: Imprisonment of Mr. Tom Mann]
English Syndicalism has few supporters and it is a rather diluted form
of French Syndicalism. To understand the movement, we must turn to its
history in France or in America. Its history in Russia will be an object
of research in the future, when more material and more news are
available from that "distressful country." In France local unions or
syndicats were legalized as early as 1884 but 1895 is the important
landmark, being the date of the foundation with which Syndicalism is
associated to-day, the Confederation Generale du Travail, popularly
known as the "C.G.T.," the central trade-union organization in France.
In the main, Syndicalism is an urban product, and has not many adherents
among the agricultural population. In America a "Federation of Labour"
was formed in 1886, but the Syndicalist organization there is the body
known as "The Industrial Workers of the World." In its declaration of
policy, it looks forward to a union which is to embrace the whole
working class and to adopt towards the capitalist class an unending
warfare, until the latter is expropriated. "The working class and the
employing class," says the declaration, "have nothing in common. Between
these two classes a struggle must go on until all the toilers come
together on the industrial field and take and hold that which they
produce by their labour." Among the leaders of Syndicalist thought on
the Continent may be mentioned the names of three prominent Frenchmen,
Berth, Lagardelle, and Sorel, together with that of the young Italian
professor Labriola, who is leading the increasingly active party in his
own country.

In France, Italy, and America alike, Syndicalism stands for the class-
war. Its central feature is the idea of a General Strike. It manifests a
hatred of the State, which makes it bitterly opposed to State Socialism,
which it regards as centralized and tyrannical, or to a Labour-party of
any kind in Parliament. [Footnote: Attempts at carrying out a General
Strike, in France, Sweden, Italy, and Spain have failed. The greatest
Strikes have been: Railwaymen in Italy, in 1907; Postal Workers in
France, in 1909. Miners in New South Wales, in 1909, and in Sweden,
1909; Miners and Railwaymen in England; Textile Workers in
Massachusetts, 1912; Railwaymen in England, 1919, in France, 1920.] It
regards the State as fixed, rigid, and intellectual, and adopts all the
Bergsonian anathemas it can find which condemn intellectual
constructions, concepts, and thought in general. Its war-cry is not only
"Down with Capitalism" but also, in a great number of cases, "Down with
Intellectualism"! Instinct and impulse alone are to be guides.
Syndicalism, unlike Socialism, has no programme--it does not believe in
a prearranged plan. Reality, it says, quoting Bersgon, has no plan. It
says, "Let us act, act instinctively and impulsively against what we
feel to be wrong, and the future will grow out of our acting." We find
Georges Sorel, the philosopher of Syndicalism, talking about what he
terms the INTUITION of Socialism, and he talks emphatically about the
tremendous moral value of strikes, apart from any material gain achieved
by them. He believes religiously in a General Strike as the great ideal,
but considers it a myth capable of rousing enthusiasm in the workers, an
ideal to which they must strive, a myth as inspiring as the belief of
the early Christians in the Second Coming of Christ, which, although
quite a false belief, contributed largely to the success of the early
Church. "Strikes," says Sorel, "have engendered in the proletariat the
most noble, the most profound, the most moving sentiments they possess.
The General Strike groups these in a composite picture, and by bringing
together, gives to each its maximum intensity; appealing to the most
acute memories of particular conflicts, it colours with an intense life
all the details of the composition presented to the mind. We obtain thus
an intuition of Socialism which language cannot clearly express and we
obtain it in a symbol instantly perceived, such as is maintained in the
Bergsonian philosophy." [Footnote: Quoted by C. Bougle, in an
interesting article Syndicalistes et Bergsoniens, Revue du mois, April
10, 1909. And by Rev. Rhondda Williams in Syndicalism in France and its
Relation to the Philosophy of Bergson, Hibbert Journal, 1914. Also by J.
W. Scott in his book Syndicalism and Philosophical Realism, 1919, pp.
39-40, and by Harley in Syndicalism.] In England, although the idea of
the General Strike has not been so prominent, yet in recent years
Strikes have assumed an aspect different from those of former years.
Workers who had "struck" before for definite objects, for wages or
hours, or reformed workshop conditions, now seem to be seeking after
something vaster--a fundamental alteration in industrial conditions or
the total abolition of the present system. The spirit of unrest is on
the increase; no doubt War conditions have, in many cases, intensified
it, but there is in the whole industrial world an instinctive impulse
showing itself, which is issuing in Syndicalist and Bolshevist
[Footnote: "Bolshevik"--simply the Russian word for majority party as
distinct from Mensheviks or minority.] activities of various kinds.
Syndicalism is undoubtedly revolutionary. There are Les Syndicats rouges
and Les Syndicats jaunes, of which the "Reds" are by far the most
revolutionary. [Footnote: See article Des Ouvriers syndiques et le
Syndicalisme jaune, Revue de metaphysique et morale, 1912] The C.G.T.
and the Industrial Workers of the World are out for what they call
"direct action." Their anarchy is really an organization directed
against organization, at least against that organization we know as the
modern State. They have no hope of salvation for themselves coming about
through the State in any way. It has become somewhat natural for us to
think of the social reformer as a Member of Parliament and of the
revolutionary socialist as a "strike-agitator." The cries of "Don't
vote!" "Don't enlist!" are heard, and care is taken to keep the workman
from ceasing to quarrel with his employer. Any discussion of the rights
or wrongs of any Strike is condemned at once. [Footnote: Ramsay
MacDonald was condemned by the Syndicalists for claiming that a strike
MIGHT be wrong.] All Strikes are regarded as right and as an approach to
the ideal of the General Strike. Sorel cites Bergson as calling us to
turn from traditional thought, to seek reality in the dynamic, rather
than the static. He claims that the Professor of Philosophy at the
College de France really co-operates with the C.G.T. An unexpected
harmony arises "between the flute of personal meditation, and the
trumpet of social revolution, and the workman is inspired by being made
to feel that the elan ouvrier est frere de l'elan vital." [Footnote:
Quoted by C. Bougie in the article previously mentioned.] As Bergson
speaks of all movement as unique and indivisible, so the triumphant
movement of the General Strike is to be regarded as a whole, no analysis
is to be made of its parts. As the portals of the future stand wide
open, as the future is being made, so Bergson tells us, that is deemed
an excuse by the Syndicalists for having no prearranged plan of the
conduct of the General Strike, and no conception of what is to be done
afterwards. It is unforeseen and unforeseeable. All industries, however,
are to be in the hands of those who work them, the present industrial
system is to be swept away. The new order which is to follow will have
entirely new moral codes. Sorel justifies violence to be used against
the existing order, but says he wishes to avoid unnecessary blood-shed
or brutality. [Footnote: Reflections on Violence. It is interesting to
note that Bergson refers briefly to Sorel as an original thinker whom it
is impossible to place in any category or class, in La Philosophie, p.
13.] He remarks however, in this connexion, that ancient society, with
all its brutality, compares favourably with modern society which has
replaced ferocity by cunning. The ancient peoples had less hypocrisy
than we have; this, in his opinion, justifies violence in the overthrow
of the modern system and the creation of a nobler ethic than that on
which the modern State is based. For this reason, he disagrees with most
of his Syndicalist colleagues, and condemns sabotage and also the ca
canny policy, both of which are a kind of revenge upon the employer,
based on the principle of "bad work for bad pay." He would have the
workers produce well now, and urges that moral progress is to be aimed
at no less than material progress.

It certainly seems, however, that the Syndicalists are making an unfair
use of Bergson. They have got hold of three or four points rather out of
relation to their context, and are making the most of them. These points
are, chiefly, his remarks against the Intellect, his appreciation of
Instinct and Intuition, his insistence on Freedom and on the
Indeterminateness of the Future. In the hands of the Syndicalists these
become in effect: "Never mind what you think, rouse up your feeling
intensely; act as you feel and then see what you think." Briefly this
amounts to saying: "Act on impulse, behave instinctively and not
rationally." In too many cases, as we know, this is equivalent to a
merely selfish "Down tools if you feel like it." Now so far from Bergson
really giving any countenance to capricious behaviour, or mere impulse,
he expressly condemns such action. Although the future is being made, he
does not admit that it will be merely CAPRICIOUSLY made, and he condemns
the man of mere impulse along with the dreamer, in a fine passage where
he speaks of the value of an intelligent memory in practical
life.[Footnote: See p. 48 of the present work.] When the Syndicalists
assert that elan, instinct, impulse, or intuition are a better guide
than intelligence and reasoned principles, and cite Bergson as their
authority, they omit an important qualification which upsets their
theory entirely, for Bergson's anti-intellectualism is not at all of the
type which they advocate. He does not intend to rule Intellect out of
practical affairs. Indeed it is just the opposite that he asserts, for,
in his view, the Intellect is pre-eminently fitted for practical life,
for action, and it is for this very reason that he maintains it does not
give us insight into reality itself, which Intuition alone can do. He
does not wish, however, to decrease the small element of rationality
manifested in ethical and political life, least of all to make men less
rational, in the sense that they are to become mere creatures of
Impulse.

Nevertheless, Bergson's great emphasis on Will and Creativeness condemns
any laissez-faire type of political theory. It would be wrong for us to
accept the social order which is felt to be imperfect and unjust in so
many ways, simply because we find ourselves in it and fear we cannot
work a way out. WE HAVE GREAT POWER OF CREATION, AND IN LARGE MEASURE WE
CAN CREATE WHAT WE WILL IN THE WORLD OF POLITICS AND SOCIAL LIFE, and it
is good that men generally should be made to see this. But it is of very
vital importance that we should will the right thing. This we are not
likely to do impulsively and without reflection. Even if we admit Mr.
Russell's contention that "impulse has more effect than conscious
purpose in moulding men's lives" [Footnote: Principles of Social
Reconstruction, Preface, p. 5.] and agree that "it is not the weakening
of impulse that is to be desired, but the direction of impulse toward
life and growth," [Footnote: p. 18. Cf. the whole of the first chapter
on The Principle of Growth.] yet, we none the less assert that instinct
is an insufficient guide in the determination of social behaviour, and
ask how the direction of impulse, of which Mr. Russell himself speaks,
is to be arrived at? Surely our only hope lies in striving to make men
not less, but more rational in order that they may grasp--however dimly-
-something of what is implied in ethical and political ideals, that they
may recognize in society some embodiment of will and purpose and come to
look upon Thought and Reason as the unifying and organizing principles
of human society.

We cannot help wishing that Bergson had given us some contribution to
the study of Ethics. In one of his letters to Father de Tonquedec
regarding the relation of his philosophy to Theology, we find him
remarking that "Before these conclusions [theological statements] can be
set out with greater precision, or considered at greater length, certain
problems of quite another kind would have to be attacked--the problems
of Ethics. I am not sure that I shall ever publish anything on this
subject. I shall do so only if I attain the results that appear to me as
demonstrable or as clearly to be shown as those of my other books."
[Footnote: In Etudes (Revue des Peres de Jesus), Vol. CXXX, pp. 514,
515, 1912.] Prior to the War, however, we know that Bergson was taking
up the problem of working out the implications of his philosophy in the
sphere of social ethics, with particular reference to the meaning of
"Duty" and the significance of "Personality." Although his
investigations of these supremely important problems have not yet been
completed or made public, nevertheless certain ethical implications
which have an important bearing on personal and social life seem to be
contained in what he has already written.

In its application to social life, Bergson's philosophy would involve
the laying of greater stress upon the need for all members of society
having larger opportunities of being more fully themselves, of being
self-creative and having fuller powers of self-expression as free
creative agents. It would lay emphasis upon the value of the personality
of the worker and would combat the systematic converting of him into a
mere "hand." Thus would be set in clearer light the claims of human
personality to create and to enjoy a good life in the widest sense, to
enter into fuller sympathy and fellowship with other personalities, and
so develop a fuller and richer form of existence than is possible under
present social and industrial conditions. It would mean a transvaluation
of all social values, an esteeming of personality before property, a
recognition of material goods as means to a good life, when employed in
the social service of the spirit of man. It would involve a denunciation
of the enslavement of man's spirit to the production of material wealth.
Each man would be a member of a community of personalities, each of
unique value, treating each other, not as means to their own particular
selfish ends, but as ends in themselves. At the same time it would
involve the putting of the personality of the citizen in the foremost
place in our social and political life, instead of a development of a
purely class consciousness with its mischievous distinctions.

Articles have been written dealing with Bergson's message to Feminism.
This point is not without its importance in our modern life. It must be
admitted that the present system of civilization with its scientific
campaign of conquest of the material environment has been the work of
man's intellect. In the ruder stages of existence women's subordination
to men may have been necessary and justifiable. But in the development
of society it has become increasingly less necessary, and humanity is
now at a stage where the contributions of women to society are
absolutely vital to its welfare and progress. Woman is proverbially and
rightly regarded as more intuitive than man. This need not be taken to
mean that, given the opportunity of intellectual development (until now
practically denied to her), woman would not show as great ability in
this direction as man. But it is an undeniable fact that woman has kept
more closely to the forces of the great life-principle, both by the fact
that in her rests the creative power for the continuation of the human
family and also by the fact that the development of the personalities of
children has been her function. The subjection in which women have been
largely kept until now has not only hindered them from taking part in
the work of society as a whole and from expressing their point of view,
but has meant that many of them have little or no knowledge of their
capacities and abilities in wider directions. However, with their
increasing realization of their own powers, with the granting of
increased opportunities to them, and an adequate recognition of their
personality side by side with that of men, achievements of supreme value
for humanity as a whole may be expected from them. In certain spheres
they may be found much better adapted than are men to achieve a vision
which will raise human life to a higher plane and give it greater worth.
More especially in the realms of ethical development, of social science,
problems of sex, of war and peace, of child welfare, health, and
education, of religion and philosophy we may hope to have valuable
contributions from the more intuitive mind of woman. "It is not in the
fighting male of the race: it is in Woman that we have the future centre
of Power in civilization." [Footnote: Benjamin Kidd in The Science of
Power, p. 195. This is more fully shown in his chapters, Woman the
Psychic Centre of Power in the Social Integration, and The Mind of
Woman, pp. 192-257.] The wandering Dante required for his guidance not
only the intellectual faculties of a Vergil but in addition the
intuitive woman-soul of a Beatrice to lead him upward and on.

In La Conscience et la Vie [Footnote: L'Energie spirituelle, p. 27
(Mind-Energy).] Bergson indicates slightly his views on SOCIAL
evolution--c'est a la vie sociale que l'evolution aboutit, comme si le
besoin s'en etait fait sentir des le debut, ou plutot comme si quelque
aspiration originelle et essentielle de la vie ne pouvait trouver que
dans la societe sa pleine satisfaction. He seems inclined to turn his
attention to the unity of life, not simply as due to an identity of
original impulse but to a common aspiration. There is involved a process
of subordination and initiative on the part of the individual. The
existence of society necessitates a certain subordination, while its
progress depends on the free initiative of the individual. It is
extremely dangerous for any society, whether it be an International
League, a State, either Communistic or Capitalistic, a Trade Union, or a
Church, to suppress individual liberty in the interests of greater
social efficiency or of increased production or rigid uniformity of
doctrine. With the sacrifice of individual initiative will go the loss
of all "soul," and the result will be degeneration to a mechanical type
of existence, a merely stagnant institution expressing nothing of man's
spirit. This personal power of initiative Bergson appeals to each one to
maintain. In an important passage of his little work on Laughter he
makes a personal moral appeal.

"What life and society require of each of us is a constantly alert
attention, that discerns the outlines of the present situation, together
with a certain elasticity of mind and body to enable us to adapt
ourselves in consequence."[Footnote: Laughter, p. 18 (Fr. p. 18).] The
lack of tension and elasticity gives rise to mental deficiency and to
grave inadaptability which produces misery and crime. Society demands
not only that we live but that we live well. This means that we must be
truly alive; for Bergson, the moral ideal is to keep spiritually alert.
We must be our real, living selves, and not hide behind the social self
of hypocrisy and habit. We must avoid being the victims of mechanism or
automatism. We must avoid at all costs "getting into a rut" morally or
spiritually. Change and vision are both necessary to our welfare. Where
there is no vision, no undying fire of idealism, the people perish.

Resistance to change is the sin against the Holy Spirit. Bergson is
opposed to the conventional view of morality as equivalent to rigidity,
and grasps the important truth that if morality is to be of worth at all
it must lie not in a fixed set of rules, habits, or conventions, but in
a spirit of living. This is of very great ethical importance indeed, as
it means that we must revise many of our standards of character. For
example, how often do we hear of one who, holding an obviously false
view long and obstinately, is praised as consistent, whereas a mind
which moves and develops with the times, attempting always to adjust
itself to changing conditions in its intellectual or material
environment, is contemptuously dubbed as "changeable" by the moralists
of rigidity. We must, however, learn that consistency of character does
not mean lack of change. Stanchness of character is too often mere
obstinate resistance to change. We must therefore be on our guard
against those who would run ethics into rigid moulds, and so raise up
static concepts and infallible dogmas for beliefs or action. Change must
be accepted as a principle which it is both futile and immoral to
ignore, even in the moral life. This does not mean setting up caprice or
impulsiveness, for in so far as our change of character expresses the
development of the single movement of our own inner life it will be
quite other than capricious, but it will be change, and a change which
is quite consistent, a creative evolution of our personality.

No merely materialistic ethic can breathe in the atmosphere of Bergson's
thought, which sets human consciousness in a high place and insists upon
the fact of Freedom. He maintains a point of view far removed from the
old naturalistic ethic; he does take some account of "values," freedom,
creativeness, and joy (as distinct from pleasure). He points out that
Matter, although to a degree the tool of Spirit, is nevertheless the
enemy who threatens us with a lapse into mere automatism which is only
the parody of true life. The eternal conflict of Matter and Spirit in
Evolution demands that we place ourselves on the side of spiritual
rather than merely material values. We must not be like "the man with
the muck rake." Our conceptions of goodness must be not merely static
but dynamic, for the moral life is essentially an evolution--"a growth
in grace." It means a constant "putting on of the new man," never
"counting oneself to have attained," for spirituality is a progress to
ever new creations, the spiritual life is an unending adventure, and is,
moreover, one which is hampered and crushed by all refusals to recognize
that Change is the fundamental feature of the universe. Nothing can be
more mischievous, more detrimental to moral progress--which is
ultimately the only progress of value and significance to humanity--than
the deification of the status quo either in the individual or in society
as a whole.




CHAPTER XI

RELATION TO RELIGION AND THEOLOGY


Avoidance of theological terms--Intuition and faith--God and Change--
Deity not omnipotent but creative and immanent--God as "Creator of
creators"--Problem of teleology--Stimulus to theology--The need for
restatements of the nature of God--Men as products and instruments of
divine activity--Immortality.


We have seen that Bergson holds no special brief for science, for, as
has been shown, he opposes many of the hypotheses to which science
clings. Consequently, some persons possessing only a superficial
acquaintance with Bergson, and having minds which still think in the
exclusive and opposing terms of the conflict of science and religion of
a generation past, have enthusiastically hailed him as an ally of their
religion. We must examine carefully how far this is justifiable. It is
perfectly natural and just that many people, unable to devote time or
energy to the study of his works, want to know, in regard to Bergson, as
about every other great thinker, what is the bearing of his thought on
their practical theory of life, upon their ideals of existence, upon the
courage, faith, and hope which enable them to work and live, feeling
that life is worth while. We must, however, guard against misuse of
Bergson, particularly such misuse of him as that made in another sphere,
by the Syndicalists. We find that in France he has been welcomed by the
Modernists of the Roman Catholic Church as an ally, and by not a few
liberal and progressive Christian theologians in this country.

At the outset, we must note that Bergson avoids theological forms of
expression, because he is well aware that these--especially in a
philosophical treatise--may give rise to misconceptions. He does not,
like Kant, attack any specific or traditional argument for Theism; he
does not enter into theological controversy. He has not formulated, with
any strictness, his conception of God; for he has recognized that an
examination of Theism would be of little or no value, which was not
prefaced by a refutation of mechanism and materialism, and by the
assertion of some spiritual value in the universe. It is to such a
labour that Bergson has applied himself; it is only incidentally that we
find him making remarks on religious or theological conceptions. His
whole philosophy, however, involves some very important religious
conceptions and theological standpoints. In France, Bergson has had a
considerable amount of discussion on the theological implications of his
philosophy with the Jesuit Fathers, notably Father de Tonquedec. These
arise particularly from his views concerning Change, Time, Freedom,
Evolution and Intuition.

Bergson has been cited as a "Mystic" because he preaches a doctrine of
Intuition. But his metaphysical Intuition bears no relation to the
mysticism of the saint or of the fervid religious mind. He expressly
says, "The doctrine I hold is a protest against mysticism since it
professes to reconstruct the bridge (broken since Kant) between
metaphysics and science." Yet, if by mysticism one means a certain
appeal to the inner and profound life, then his philosophy is mystical--
but so is all philosophy. We must beware of any attempts to run
Bergson's thought into moulds for which it was never intended, and guard
against its being strained and falsely interpreted in the interests of
some special form of religious belief. Intuition is not what the
religious mind means by Faith, in the accepted sense of belief in a
doctrine or a deity, which is to be neither criticized nor reasoned
about. Religion demands "what passeth knowledge." Furthermore, it seeks
a reality that abides above the world of Change, "The same yesterday,
to-day, and for ever," to which it appeals. The religious consciousness
finds itself most reluctant to admit the reality of Change, and this, we
must remember, is the fundamental principle of Bergson's thought. Faber,
one of the noblest hymn writers, well expresses this attitude:

     "O, Lord, my heart is sick,
         Sick of this everlasting change,
      And Life runs tediously quick
         Through its unresting race and varied range.
      Change finds no likeness of itself in Thee,
      And makes no echo in Thy mute eternity."

For Bergson, God reveals Himself in the world of Time, in the very
principle of Change. He is not "a Father of lights in Whom is no
variableness nor shadow of turning."

It has been said that the Idea of God is one of the objects of
philosophy, and this is true, if, by God, we agree to mean the principle
of the universe, or the Absolute. Unity is essential to the Idea of God.
For the religious consciousness, of course, God's existence is a
necessary one, not merely contingent. It views Him as eternal and
unchangeable. But if we accept the Bergsonian philosophy, God cannot be
regarded as "timeless," or as "perfect" in the sense of being "eternal"
and "complete." He is, so to speak, realizing Himself in the universe,
and is not merely a unity which sums up the multiplicity of time
existence. Further, He must be a God who acts freely and creatively and
who is in time. Trouble has arisen in the past over the relation of
"temporal" and "eternal"--the former being regarded as appearance. For
Bergson, this difficulty does not arise; there is, for him, no such
dualism. His God is not exempt from Change, He is not to be conceived as
existing apart from and independent of the world. Indeed, for him, God
would seem to be merely a focus imaginarius of Life and Spirit, a
"hypostatization" of la duree. He cannot be regarded as the loving
Father of the human race whom He has begotten or created in order that
intelligent beings "may glorify Him and enjoy Him for ever." Bergson
does not offer us a God, personal, loving, and redemptive, as the
Christian religious consciousness demands or imagines. He does not, and
can not, affirm Christian Theism, for he considers that the facts do not
warrant the positing of a self-conscious and personal Individual in the
only sense in which we, from our experience, can understand these words.
God is pure, creative activity, a flowing rather than a fountain head; a
continuity of emanation, not a centre from which things emanate. For
Bergson, God is anthropomorphic--as He must necessarily be for us all--
but Bergson's is anthropomorphism of a subtle kind. His God is the duree
of our own conscious life, raised to a higher power. Dieu se fait in the
evolutionary process. He is absolutely unfinished, not complete or
perfect. He is incessant life, action, freedom, and creativeness, and in
so far as we ourselves manifest these (seen, above all, in the creative
joy of the inventor, poet, artist, and mother) each of us has the
"divine" at work within. For Bergson, God is a Being immanent in the
universe, but He is ignorant of the direction in which Evolution is
progressing. This is not the God of the ordinary religious
consciousness, nor is it a conception of God which satisfies the limited
notion which our own imagination both creates and craves to find real.
God, it would seem, must be greater than His works, and He must know
what He is doing. It has been objected that a force, even if a divine
force (one can hardly call it "God" in the ordinary meaning of that
vague word) which urges on Matter without knowing in what direction or
to what end, is no God at all, for it is merely personified chance. This
is due to what Hegel calls "the error of viewing God as free."
[Footnote: Logic, Wallace's translation, first edition, p. 213.]

In reply to certain criticisms of his book L'Evolution creatrice made by
Father de Tonquedec, Bergson wrote in 1912: "I speak of God as the
source whence issue successively, by an effort of his freedom, the
currents or impulses each of which will make a world; he therefore
remains distinct from them, and it is not of him that we can say that
'most often it turns aside' or is 'at the mercy of the materiality that
it has been bound to adopt.' Finally, the reasoning whereby I establish
the impossibility of 'nothing' is in no way directed against the
existence of a transcendent cause of the world; I have, on the contrary,
explained that this reasoning has in view the Spinozist conception of
Being. It issues in what is merely a demonstration that 'something' has
always existed. As to the nature of this 'something' it is true that
nothing in the way of a positive conclusion is conveyed. But neither is
it stated in any fashion that what has always existed is the world
itself, and the rest of the book explicitly affirms the contrary."
[Footnote: Tonquedec: Dieu dans l'Evolution creatrice (Beauchesne), and
Annales de philosophie chretienne, 1912.] "Now the considerations set
forth in my Essai sur les donnees immediates result in bringing to light
the fact of freedom, those of Matiere et Memoire point directly, I hope,
to the reality of Spirit, those of L'Evolution creatrice exhibit
creation as a fact. From all this emerges clearly the idea of a God,
creator and free, the generator of both Matter and Life, whose work of
creation is continued on the side of Life by the evolution of species
and the building up of human personalities. From all this emerges a
refutation of monism and of pantheism." [Footnote: Tonquedec: Dieu dans
l'Evolution creatrice (Beauchesne), and also Etudes des Peres de Jesus,
Vol. CXXX, 1912.] To this it was replied that, for Catholic theology,
God is not merely the source from which the river springs, God does not
develop Himself to a world but He causes it to appear by a kind of
creation quite different from that of Bergson. Bergson's God is not the
God of pantheism, because, for him, the Deity is immanent in nature, not
identifiable with it. A true account of the Absolute would, for him,
take the form of history. Human history has a vital meaning for him. God
is not omnipotent; He is a fighter who takes sides. He is not a "potter-
God" with a clay world. The world involves a limiting of God, and
theology has always found this its most difficult problem, for the evils
or defects against which the Creator is waging war are evils and defects
in a world of His own creating. Speaking in 1914, at the Edinburgh
Philosophical Society, Bergson remarked that God might be looked upon as
"a Creator of creators." Such a view, more explicitly worked out, might
bring him into line with the religious attempt to reconcile the divine
action with our own work and freedom. Our wills are ours, but in some
mystic way religion believes they may become His also, and that we may
be "fellow-labourers together with God." The religious view of the
perfection of the Divine, its omniscience and omnipotence, has always
been hard to reconcile with free will. Christian theology, when based on
the perfection of the Divine nature, has always tended to be
determinist. Indeed, free will has been advocated rather as an
explanation of the presence of evil (our waywardness as in opposition to
the will of God) than as the privilege and necessary endowment of a
spiritual being, and so the really orthodox religious mind has been
forced to seek salvation in self-surrender and has found consolation in
reliance on the "grace" or "active good will" of God. Thus many
theologians in an attempt to reconcile this with human freedom speak
mystically, nevertheless confidently, of "the interaction of Grace and
Free-Will."

The acceptance of Creative Evolution involves the acceptance of a God
who expresses Himself in creative action called forth by changing
situations. It cannot regard Evolution as merely the unrolling in time
of the eternally complete, as in the view of monistic idealism. We find
in Bergson, however, two hints which suggest that some vague idealistic
conception has been present to his mind. For instance, in speaking of
Time in relation to God, we find him suggesting that "the whole of
history might be contained in a very short time for a consciousness at a
higher degree of tension than our own, which should watch the
development of humanity while contracting it, so to speak, into the
great phases of its evolution." [Footnote: Matter and Memory, p. 275
(Fr. p. 231).] This remark seems an echo of the words of the old Hebrew
poet:

     "For a thousand years in Thy sight
      Are but as yesterday when it is past,
      And as a watch in the night."

Again, in L'Evolution creatrice we find him suggesting that in maternity
and love may lie the secret of the universe.

The important point however, in considering Bergson in relation to
Religion and Theology, is his marked objection to teleology. It is this
which has led many to style his philosophy pessimistic. Religion does
not live readily in a pessimistic atmosphere. Then religion regards Life
and the Universe as valuable, not because they yield to some single
impulsion, but because, at every step, they manifest a meaning and
significance interpreted by our conceptions of value. Bergson's view
only favours religion as ordinarily comprehended, in so far as it breaks
away from a materialistic mechanism, and asserts freedom and gives
Spirit some superiority over Matter. At first sight, the term "creative"
seemed very promising, but can we stop where Bergson has left us? Why
should he banish teleology? His super-consciousness is so indeterminate
that it is not allowed to hamper itself with any purpose more definite
than that of self-augmentation. The course and goal of Evolution are to
it unknown and unknowable. Creation, freedom, and will are great things,
as Mr. Balfour remarks, but we cannot lastingly admire them unless we
know their drift. It is too haphazard a universe which Bergson displays.
Joy does not seem to fit in with what is so aimless. It would be better
to invoke God with a purpose than a supra-consciousness with none.
[Footnote: Creative Evolution and Philosophic Doubt, Hibbert Journal,
Oct., 1911, pp. 1-23.]

In response to an international inquiry, conducted by Frederic Charpin,
for the Mercure de France, formulated in the question, Assistons-nous a
une dissolution ou a une evolution de l'idee religieuse et du sentiment
religieux? Bergson wrote: "I feel quite unable to foretell what the
external manifestation of the religious sense may be in time to come. I
can only say that it does not seem to me likely to be disintegrated.
Only that which is made up of parts can be disintegrated. Now, I am
willing to admit that the religious sense has been gradually enriched
and complicated by very diverse elements; none the less it is in essence
a simple thing, sui generis; and resembles no other emotion of the soul.
It may, perhaps be urged that a simple element, although it cannot be
decomposed, may yet disappear, and that the religious sense will
inevitably vanish when it has no object to which it can attach itself.
But this would be to forget that the object of the religious sense is,
in part at least, prior to that sense itself; that this object is felt
even more than it is thought and that the idea is, in this case, the
effect of the feeling quite as much as its cause. The progressive
deepening of the idea may therefore make the religious sense clearer and
ever clearer; it cannot modify that which is essential in it, still less
effect its disappearance." [Footnote: Charpin: La Question religieuse,
1908, Paris.]

We find Bergson reported as believing that the individual cannot be
guided solely by considerations of a purely moral character. Morality,
even social ethics, is not enough in view of the longing for religious
experience, the yearning for at least a feeling of definite relationship
between the individual human personality and the great spiritual source
of life. This is a feeling which he believes will grow. [Footnote: New
York Times, Feb. 22, 1914.]

Bergson's philosophy has aroused a new interest in many theological
questions. The dogmas of theology, philosophy holds itself free to
criticize; they are for it problems. The teleological arguments of the
older theologians have had to be left behind. "We are fearfully and
wonderfully made," no doubt, but not perfectly, and the arguments in
favour of an intelligent contriver (cf. The Bridgewater Treatises) which
showed the greatest plausibility, were made meaningless by Darwin's
work. Further, Evoluton knows no break. We cannot believe in the
doctrines of the "fall" or in "original sin," for Evolution means a
progress from lower to higher forms. Thus we see that many of the older
forms of theological statement call for revision. Bergson has done much
to stimulate a keener and fresher theological spirit which will express
God in a less static and less isolated form, so that we shall not have
the question asked, either by children or older folks, "What does God
do?"

It should be noted before closing this section that the religious
consciousness is tempted to take Bergson's views on Soul and Body to
imply more than they really do. The belief in Immortality which Western
religion upholds is not a mere swooning into the being of God, but a
perfect realization of our own personalities. It is only this that is an
immortality worthy of the name. To regard souls as Bergson does, as
merely "rivulets" into which the great stream of Life has divided, does
not do sufficient justice to human individuality. A "Nirvana," after
death, is not immortality in the sense of personal survival and in the
sense demanded by the religious consciousness.

The influence of Bergson's thought upon religion and theology may be put
finally as follows: We must reject the notion of a God for whom all is
already made, to whom all is given, and uphold the conception of a God
who acts freely in an open universe. The acceptance of Bergson's
philosophy involves the recognition of a God who is the enduring
creative impulse of all Life, more akin perhaps to a Mother-Deity than a
Father-Deity. This divine vital impetus manifests itself in continual
new creation. We are each part of this great Divine Life, and are both
the products and the instruments of its activity. We may thus come to
view the Divine Life as self-given to humanity, emptying itself into
mankind as a veritable incarnation, not, however, restricted to one time
and place, but manifest throughout the whole progress of humanity. Our
conception will be that of a Deity, not external and far-off, but one
whose own future is bound up in humanity, rejoicing in its joy, but
suffering, by a kind of perpetual crucifixion, through man's errors and
his failures to be loyal to the higher things of the spirit. Thus we
shall see that, in a sense, men's noble actions promote God's fuller
being. A Norwegian novelist has recently emphasized this point by his
story of the man who went out and sowed corn in his late enemy's field
THAT GOD MIGHT EXIST! [Footnote: The Great Hunger, by Johan Bojer.] But
it is important to remember that in so far as we allow ourselves to
become victims of habit, living only a materialistic and static type of
existence, we retard the divine operations. On the other hand, in so far
as our spirit finds joy in creative activity and in the furtherance of
spiritual values, to this extent we may be regarded as fellow-labourers
together with God. We cannot, by intellectual searching find out God,
yet we may realize and express quite consistently with Bergson's
philosophy the truth that "in Him we live, and move, and have our
being."




CHAPTER XII

REFLECTIONS


Bergson not systematic--His style--Difficult to classify--Empirical and
spiritual--Value of his ideas on Change, the nature of Mind, of Freedom-
-Difficulties in his evolutionary theory--Ethical lack--Need for
supplement-Emphasis on Will, Creativeness, Human Progress and
Possibilities.


In concluding this study of Bergson's philosophy, it remains to sum up
and to review its general merits and deficiencies. We must remember, in
fairness to Bergson, that he does not profess to offer us A SYSTEM of
philosophy. In fact, if he were to do so, he would involve himself in a
grave inconsistency, for his thought is not of the systematic type. He
is opposed to the work of those individual thinkers who have offered
"systems" to the world, rounded and professedly complete constructions,
labelled, one might almost say, "the last word in Philosophy." Bergson
does not claim that his thought is final. His ideal, of which he speaks
in his lectures on La Perception du Changement--that excellent summary
of his thought--is a progressive philosophy to which each thinker shall
contribute. If we feel disappointed that Bergson has not gone further or
done more by attempting a solution of some of the fundamental problems
of our human experience, upon which he has not touched, then we must
recollect his own view of the philosophy he is seeking to expound. All
thinking minds must contribute their quota. A philosophy such as he
wishes to promote by establishing a method by his own works will not be
made in a day. "Unlike the philosophical systems properly so called,
each of which was the individual work of a man of genius, and sprang up
as a whole to be taken or left, it will only be built up by the
collective and progressive effort of many thinkers, of many observers
also, completing, correcting, and improving one another." [Footnote:
Introduction to Creative Evolution, p. xiv. (Fr. p. vii).] Both science
and the older kind of metaphysics have kept aloof from the vital
problems of our lives. In one of his curious but brilliant metaphors
Bergson likens Life to a river over which the scientists have
constructed an elaborate bridge, while the laborious metaphysicians have
toiled to build a tunnel underneath. Neither group of workers has
attempted to plunge into the flowing tide itself. In the most brilliant
of his short papers: L'Intuition philosophique, he makes an energetic
appeal that philosophy should approach more closely to practical life.
His thought aims at setting forth, not any system of knowledge, but
rather a method of philosophizing; in a phrase, this method amounts to
the assertion that Life is more than Logic, or, as Byron put it, "The
tree of Knowledge is not the tree of Life."

It is because Bergson has much to say that is novel and opposed to older
conceptions that a certain lack of proportion occasionally mars his
thought; for he--naturally enough--frequently lays little emphasis on
important points which he considers are sufficiently familiar, in order
to give prominent place and emphasis to some more novel point. Herein
lies, it would now appear, the explanation of the seeming disharmony
between Intuition and Intellect which was gravely distressing to many in
his earlier writing on the subject. Later works, however, make a point
of restoring this harmony, but, as William James has remarked: "We are
so subject to the philosophical tradition which treats logos, or
discursive thought generally, as the sole avenue to truth, that to fall
back on raw, unverbalized life, as more of a revealer, and to think of
concepts as the merely practical things which Bergson calls them, comes
very hard. It is putting off our proud maturity of mind and becoming
again as foolish little children in the eyes of reason. But, difficult
as such a revolution is, there is no other way, I believe, to the
possession of reality." [Footnote: Lecture on Bergson and his anti-
intellectualism, in A Pluralistic Universe. It may be remarked here
that, although James hailed Bergson as an ally, Bergson cannot be
classed as a pragmatist. His great assertion is that just because
intellect is pragmatic it does not help us to get a vision of reality.
Cf. the interesting work on William James and Henri Bergson, by W. H.
Kallen.]

Bergson's style of writing merits high praise. He is no "dry"
philosopher; he is highly imaginative and picturesque; many of his
passages might be styled, like those of Macaulay, "purple," for at times
he rises to a high pitch of feeling and oratory. Yet this has been urged
against him by some critics. The ironic remark has been repeated, in
regard to Bergson, which was originally made of William James, by Dr.
Schiller, that his work was "so lacking in the familiar philosophic
catch-words, that it may be doubted whether any professor has quite
understood it." There is in his works a beauty of style and a
comparative absence of technical terms which have contributed much to
his popularity. The criticism directed against his poetic style, accuses
him of hypnotizing us by his fine language, of employing metaphors where
we expect facts, and of substituting illustrations for proof. Sir Ray
Lankester says: "He has exceeded the limits of fantastic speculation
which it is customary to tolerate on the stage of metaphysics, and has
carried his methods into the arena of sober science." [Footnote: In the
preface to Elliot's volume, Modern Science and the Illusions of Bergson,
p. xvii.] Another critic remarks that "as far as Creative Evolution is
concerned, his writing is neither philosophy nor science." [Footnote:
McCabe: Principles of Evolution, p. 254.] Certainly his language is
charming; it called forth from William James the remark that it
resembled fine silk underwear, clinging to the shape of the body, so
well did it fit his thought. But it does not seem a fair criticism to
allege that he substitutes metaphor for proof, for we find, on
examination of his numerous and striking metaphors, that they are
employed in order to give relief from continuous abstract statements. He
does not submit analogies as proof, but in illustration of his points.
For example, when he likens the elan vital to a stream, he does not
suggest that because the stream manifests certain characteristics,
therefore the life force does so too. Certainly that would be a highly
illegitimate proceeding. But he simply puts forward this to help us to
grasp by our imaginative faculty what he is striving to make clear. Some
critics are apt to forget the tense striving which must be involved in
any highly philosophical mind dealing with deep problems, to achieve
expression, to obtain a suitable vehicle for the thought--what wrestling
of soul may be involved in attempting to make intuitions communicable.
Metaphor is undoubtedly a help and those of Bergson are always striking
and unconventional. Had Kant, in his Critique of Pure Reason, given more
illustrations, many of his readers would have been more enlightened.

Bergson's thought, although in many respects it is strikingly original
and novel, is, nevertheless, the continuation, if not the culmination,
of a movement in French philosophy which we can trace back through
Boutroux, Guyau, Lachelier and Ravaisson to Maine de Biran, who died in
1824. Qui sait, wrote this last thinker, [Footnote: In his Pensees, p.
213.] tout ce que peut la reflection concentree et s'il n'y a pas un
nouveau monde interieur qui pourra etre decouvert un jour par quelque
Colomb metaphysicien.

Many of the ideas contained in Bergson's work find parallels in the
philosophy of Schopenhauer, as given in his work The World as Will and
Idea (Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung), particularly his Voluntarism
and his Intuitionism. The German thinker regarded all great scientific
discoveries as an immediate intuition, a flash of insight, not simply
the result of a process of abstract reasoning. Schelling also maintained
a doctrine of intuition as supra-rational.

Ravaisson, [Footnote: Ravaisson (1813-1900) wrote De l'habitude, 1832;
La metaphysique d'Aristote, 1837; and his Rapport sur la philosophie en
France au xix siecle, 1867. See Bergson's Memoir, 1904.] to whom Bergson
is indebted for much inspiration, attended the lectures of Schelling at
Munich in 1835. This French thinker, Ravaisson, has had an important
influence on the general development of thought in France during the
latter half of the last century, and much of his work foreshadows
Bergson's thought. He upheld a spiritual activity, manifesting itself
most clearly in love and art, while he allowed to matter, to mathematics
and logic only an imperfect reality. He extolled synthetic views of
reality rather than analytic ones. We are prevented, he said, from
realizing our true selves because of our slavery to habit. To the
ultimate reality, or God, we can attain because of our kinship with that
reality, and by an effort of loving sympathy enter into union with it by
an intuition which lies beyond and above the power of intellectual
searching. As Maine de Biran foretold the coming of a metaphysical
Columbus, so Ravaisson, in his famous Rapport sur la philosophic en
France au xix siecle, published in 1867, prophesied as follows: "Many
signs permit us to foresee in the near future a philosophical epoch of
which the general character will be the predominance of what may be
called spiritualistic realism or positivism, having as generating
principle the consciousness which the mind has of itself of an existence
recognized as being the source and support of every other existence,
being none other than its action."

Lachelier, a disciple of Ravaisson, brought out--as has been already
remarked [Footnote: Page 3.]--the significance of the operations of
vital forces and of liberty. Guyau, whose brief life ended in 1888 and
whose posthumous work La Genese de I'Idee de Temps was reviewed by
Bergson two years after the publication of his own Time and Free Will,
laid great stress on the intensification and expansion of life.
Boutroux, in his work, has insisted upon the fact of contingency.

These forecasts of Bergson's thought made by men to whom he owes much
and for whom he personally has the greatest admiration are interesting,
but we are not yet able to look upon his work through the medium of
historical perspective. We can however see it as the culmination of
various tendencies in modern French philosophy; first, the effort to
bring philosophy into the open air of human nature, into immediate
contact with life and with problems vital to humanity; secondly, the
upholding of contingency in all things, thus ensuring human freedom;
thirdly, a disparagement of purely intellectual constructions as true
interpretations of human life and all existence, coupled with an
insistence on an insight that transcends logical formulation.

As a thinker, Bergson is very difficult to classify. "All classification
of philosophies is effected, as a rule, either by their methods or by
their results, 'empirical' and 'a priori' is a classification by
methods; 'realist' and 'idealist' is a classification by results. An
attempt to classify Bergson's philosophy, in either of these ways, is
hardly likely to be successful, since it cuts across all the recognized
divisions." [Footnote: Mr. Bertrand Russell's remark at the opening of
his Lecture on The Philosophy of Bergson, before The Heretics, Trinity
College, Cambridge, March 11, 1912.] We find that Bergson cannot be put
in any of the old classes or schools, or identified with any of the
innumerable isms. He brings together, without being eclectic, action and
reflection, free will and determinism, motion and rest, intellect and
intuition, subjectivity and externality, idealism and realism, in a most
unconventional way. His whole philosophy is destructive of a large
amount of the "vested interests" of philosophy. "We are watching the
rise of a new agnosticism," remarked Dr. Bosanquet. A similar remark
came from one of Bergson's own countrymen, Alfred Fouillee, who, in his
work Le Mouvement idealist et la reaction contre la science positive,
expressed the opinion that Bergson's philosophy could but issue in le
scepticisme et le nihilisme (p. 206). Bergson runs counter to so many
established views that his thought has raised very wide and animated
discussions. The list of English and American articles in the
Bibliography appended to the present work shows this at a glance. In his
preface to the volume on Gabriel Tarde, his predecessor in the chair of
Modern Philosophy at the College de France, written in 1909, we find
Bergson remarking: On mesure la portee d'une doctrine philosophique a la
variete des idees ou elle s'epanouit et a la symplicite du principe ou
elle se ramasse. This remark may serve us as a criterion in surveying
his own work. The preceding exposition of his thought is a sufficient
indication of the wealth of ideas expressed. Bergson is most suggestive.
Moreover, no philosopher has been so steeped in the knowledge of both
Mind and Matter, no thinker has been at once so "empirical" and so
"spiritual." His thought ranges from subtle psychological analyses and
minute biological facts to the work of artists and poets, all-embracing
in its attempt to portray Life and make manifest to us the reality of
Time and of Change. His insistence on Change is directed to showing that
it is the supreme reality, and on Time to demonstrating that it is the
stuff of which things are made. He is right in attacking the false
conception of Time, and putting before us la duree as more real; right,
too, in attacking the notion of empty eternity. But although Change and
Development may be the fundamental feature of reality, Bergson does not
convincingly show that it is literally THE Reality, nor do we think that
this can be shown. He does not admit that there is any THING that
changes or endures; he is the modern Heraclitus; all teaching which
savours of the Parmenidean "one" he opposes. Yet it would seem that
these two old conceptions may be capable of a reconciliation and that if
all reality is change, there is a complementary principle that Change
implies something permanent.

Then, again, we feel Bergson is right in exposing the errors which the
"idea of the line," the trespassing of space, causes; but he comes very
near to denying, in his statements regarding duree pure, any knowledge
of the past as past; he overlooks the decisive difference between the
"no more" and the "not yet" feeling of the child's consciousness, which
is the germ of our clear knowledge of the past as past, and distinct
from the future.

To take another of his "pure" distinctions, we cannot see any necessity
for his formulation of what he terms "Pure Perception." Not only does it
obscure the relation of Sensation to Perception, but it seems to be
quite unknown and unknowable and unnecessary as an hypothesis. As to his
"Pure" Memory, there is more to be said. It stands on a different plane
and seems to be the statement of a very profound truth which sheds light
on many difficult problems attaching to personality and consciousness,
for it is the conservation of memories which is the central point in
individuality. His distinction between the habit of repeating and the
"pure" memory is a very good and very necessary one. In his study of the
relation of Soul and Body, we find some of his most meritorious work--
his insistence on the uniqueness of Mind and the futility of attempts to
reduce it to material terms. His treatment of this question is parallel
to that of William James in the first part of his Ingersoll Lecture at
Harvard in 1898, when he called attention to "permissive" or
"transmissive" function of the brain. Bergson's criticisms of
Parallelism are very valuable.

No less so are his refutations of both physical and psychological
Determinism. Men were growing impatient of a science claiming so much
and yet admittedly unable to explain the really vital factors of
existence, of which the free action of men is one of the most important.
The value placed on human freedom, on the creative power of human beings
to mould the future, links Bergson again with James, and it is this
humanism which is the supremely valuable factor in the philosophies of
both thinkers. This has been pointed out in the consideration of the
ethical and political implications of Bergson's Philosophy.
Nevertheless, although his insistence on Freedom and Creative Evolution
implies that we are to realize that by our choices and our free acts we
may make or mar the issue, and that through us and by us that issue may
be turned to good, the good of ourselves and of our fellows, there is an
ethical lack in Bergson's philosophy which is disappointing. Then, as
has been remarked in the chapter on Religion, there is the lack of
teleology in his conception of the Universe; his denial of ANY purpose
hardly seems to be in harmony with his use of the phrase "the meaning of
life."

Much in Bergson would point to the need for the addition of a philosophy
of Values. This, however, he does not give us. He shirks the deeper
problems of the moral and spiritual life of man. He undervalues, indeed
ignores, the influence of transcendent ideas or ideals on the life-
history of mankind. The study of these might have led him to admit a
teleology of some kind; for "in the thinking consciousness the order of
growth is largely determined by choice; and choice is guided by
valuation. We are, in general, only partially aware of the ends that we
pursue. But we are more and more seeking to attain what is good, true
and beautiful, and the order of human life becomes more and more guided
by the consciousness of these ends." [Footnote: Professor Mackenzie:
Elements of Constructive Philosophy, p. 111.] Bergson, however, will not
ultimately be able to evade the work of attempting some reconciliation
of moral ideas and ideals with their crude and animal origins and
environment, to which they are so opposed and to which they are actually
offering a very strong opposition. That he himself has seen this is
proved by the attention he is now giving to the problems of social
Ethics.

There are four problems which confront every evolutionary theory. These
concern the origin of: Matter, Life, Consciousness, and Conscience.
Bergson finds it very difficult to account for the origin of Matter, and
it is not clear from what he says why the original consciousness should
have made Matter and then be obliged to fight against it in order to be
free. Then, in speaking of the law of Thermodynamics, he says: "Any
material system which should store energy by arresting its degradation
to some lower level, and produce effects by its sudden liberation, would
exhibit something in the nature of Life." This, however, is not very
precise, for this would hold true of thunder-clouds and of many
machines. In regard to Instinct, it has been pointed out by several
experts that Instinct is not so infallible as Bergson makes out. Of the
mistakes of Instinct he says little. Dr. McDougall in his great work
Body and Mind says, when speaking of Bergson's doctrine of Evolution:
"Its recognition of the continuity of all Life is the great merit of
Professor Bergson's theory of Creative Evolution; its failure to give
any intelligible account of individuality is its greatest defect. I
venture to think," he continues, "that the most urgent problem
confronting the philosophic biologist is the construction of a theory of
life which will harmonize the facts of individuality with the appearance
of the continuity of all life, with the theory of progressive evolution,
and with the facts of heredity and biparental reproduction." [Footnote:
McDougall, Body and Mind, Footnote to p. 377.]

In the light of such criticism it is important to note that Bergson is
now giving attention to the problem of personality which he made the
subject of his Gifford Lectures. It is a highly important problem for
humanity, and concentration on it seems the demand of the times upon
those who feel the urgent need of reflection and who have the ability to
philosophize. Can philosophy offer any adequate explanation of human
personality, its place and purpose in the cosmos? Why should individual
systems of energy, little worlds within the world, appear inside the
unity of the whole, depending on their environment, physical and mental,
for much, but yet capable of freedom and unforeseen actions, and of
creative and progressive development? Further, why should ideals
concentrate themselves as it were round such unique centres of
indeterminateness as these are? On these problems of our origin and
destiny, in short, on an investigation of human personality, thinkers
must concentrate. Humanity will not be satisfied with systems which
leave no room for the human soul. Human personality and its experience
must have ample place and recognition in any philosophy put forward in
these days.

Bergson's work is a magnificent attempt to show us how, in the words of
George Meredith: "Men have come out of brutishness." His theory of
evolution is separated from Naturalism by his insistence on human
freedom and on the supra-consciousness which is the origin of things; on
the other hand, he is separated from the Idealists by his insistence
upon the reality of la duree. He contrasts profoundly with Absolute
Idealism. While in Hegel, Mind is the only truth of Nature, in Bergson,
Life is the only truth of Matter, or we may express it--whereas for
Hegel the truth of Reality is its ideality, for Bergson the truth of
Reality is its vitality.

The need for philosophical thought, as Bergson himself points out,
[Footnote: See the closing remarks in his little work on French
philosophy, La Philosophie.] is world-wide. Philosophy aims at bringing
all discussion, even that of business affairs, on to the plane of ideas
and principles. By looking at things from a truly "general" standpoint
we are frequently helped to approach them in a really "generous" frame
of mind, for there is an intimate connexion between the large mind and
the large heart.

Bergson has rendered valuable service in calling attention to the need
for man to examine carefully his own inner nature, and the deepest worth
and significance of his own experiences. For the practical purposes of
life, man is obliged to deal with objects in space, and to learn their
relations to one another. But this does not exhaust the possibilities of
his nature. He has himself the reality of his own self-consciousness,
his own spiritual existence to consider. Consequently, he can never rest
satisfied with any purely naturalistic interpretation of himself. The
step of realizing the importance of mental constructions to interpret
the impressions of the external world, and the applying them to
practical needs, was a great advance. Much greater progress, however, is
there in man's realization of qualities within himself which transcend
the ordinary dead level of experience, the recognition of the spiritual
value of his own nature, of himself as a personality, capable even amid
the fluctuations of the world about him, and the illusions of sense
impressions, of obtaining a foretaste of eternity by a life that has the
infinite and the eternal as its inheritance; "He hath set eternity in
the heart of man." Man craves other values in life than the purely
scientific. "There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt
of" in the philosophies of the materialist or the naturalist. Bergson
assures us that the future belongs to a philosophy which will take into
account THE WHOLE of what is given. Transcending Body and Intellect is
the life of the Spirit, with needs beyond either bodily satisfaction or
intellectual needs craving its development, satisfaction and fuller
realization. The man who seeks merely bodily satisfaction lives the life
of the animal; even the man who poses as an intellectual finds himself
entangled ultimately in relativity, missing the uniqueness of all
things--his own life included. An intuitive philosophy introduces us to
the spiritual life and makes us conscious, individually and
collectively, of our capacities for development. Humanity may say: "It
doth not yet appear what we shall be," for man has yet "something to
cast off and something to become."



APPENDIX

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Note on Bibliographies.

PART ONE.

Bergson's own writings chronologically arranged.

PART TWO.

Section 1. Books directly on Bergson:
     (a) French.
     (b) English and American.
     (c) Others.

Section 2. Books indirectly on Bergson:
     (a) French.
     (b) English and American.

Section 3. Articles: English and American.
     (a) Signed, under author.
     (b) Unsigned, under date.

Section 4. English Translations of Bergson.




BIBLIOGRAPHY

A NOTE ON BIBLIOGRAPHIES

The books and articles which have appeared,
dealing with Bergson's thought, are truly
legion. Three bibliographies have already
been compiled, one in each of the countries: England,
America and Germany, which are of value and merit
attention.

In 1910, Mr. F. L. Pogson, M.A., prefixed to Time
and Free Will (the English translation of the Essai sur
les donnees immediates de la conscience) a comprehensive
bibliography, giving a list of Bergson's own
published works, and numerous articles contributed
to various periodicals, and in addition, lists of articles
in English, American, French, German and other
foreign reviews upon Bergson's philosophy. This
bibliography was partly reprinted in France two years
later as an appendix to the little work on Bergson by
M. Joseph Desaymard, La Pensee de Henri Bergson
(Paris, Mercure de France, pp. 82, 1912).

Then in 1913, when Bergson paid his visit to America,
Mr. W. Dawson Johnston, the Librarian of the
Columbia University, New York, presented him with
a copy of a little work of fifty-six pages entitled A
Contribution to a Bibliography of Henri Bergson. This
exhaustive work was prepared under the direction of
Miss Isadore G. Mudge, the Reference Librarian, and
includes all books published and all periodical literature
of value by or on Bergson, complete up to 1913.
"The bibliography includes" (to quote the Preface)
"90 books and articles by Professor Bergson (including
translations of his works), and 417 books and articles
about him. These 417 items represent 11 different
languages divided as follows: French, 170; English,
159; German, 40; Italian, 19; Polish, 5; Dutch, 3;
Spanish, 3; Roumanian, 2; Swedish, 2; Russian, 2;
Hungarian, 1." For this work Professor John Dewey
wrote an introduction. It was published by the
Columbia University Press in 1913, and is the best
evidence of the world-wide popularity of Bergson and
the international interest aroused by his writings.

A more recent compilation, however, which contains
later books and articles, is a German one,
which appeared during the war. It is the work of
Walter Meckauer and forms a valuable part of his book
Der Intuitionismus und seine Elemente bei Henri Bergson,
published in Leipsig in 1917 (Verlag Felix Meiner).

The bibliography which follows gives more up-to-
date lists of works than those mentioned, bringing the
list of Bergson's writings up to 1919, and it includes
books and articles on Bergson which have appeared
in the current year (1920). All the important books in
French, English, or German on Bergson are given.
As the present work is designed mainly to meet the
needs of English readers, lists of foreign articles are
not given, but in order to show the wide interest
aroused by Bergson's thought in the English speaking
world, and for purposes of reference, a comprehensive
list of articles which have appeared in English and
American periodicals is appended. Finally, a list of
the English Translations of Bergson's works is given
in full under their publishers' names.



PART ONE

BERGSON'S OWN WRITINGS CHRONOLOGICALLY
ARRANGED

1878 SOLUTION OF A MATHEMATICAL PROBLEM.
   This, his first published work, appeared when he was
     nineteen years of age in Annales de Mathematiques.
     (Brisse et Gerono.) It is of interest, as it shows us an
     early ability in the study of this science.

1882 LA SPECIALITE.
   Discours au Lycee d'Angers--a publication of sixteen
     pages; address given at the prize-giving in August
     of that year. Angers: Imprimerie Lacheze et Dolbeau.

1884 EXTRAITS DE LUCRECE avec un commentaire, des
     notes et une tude sur la posie, la philosophie, la
     physique, le texte et la langue de Lucrce.
     Published Delagrave, Paris, 1884. By 1914 ten editions
     had appeared. This work is of interest in showing
     his ability in classical scholarship. Pp. xlvii l59.

1885 LA POLITESSE.
   Another address. This one was given at Clermont-
     Ferrand, and was published on August 5, 1885, in the
     local paper Moniteur du Puy de Dome. It is of interest
     because in it is to be found his original view of "Grace"
     which he developed later in the Essai sur les donnees
     immidiates de la conscience (1889).

1886 LA SIMULATION INCONSCIENTE DANS L'ETAT D'HYPNOTISME.
   His first contribution to the Revue philosophique (Vol.
     XXII, pp. 525-31). It is interesting to note that correspondence
     following the appearance of this article led
     to the inclusion in Myers' Human Personality and its
     Survival of Bodily Death of a case cited by Bergson
     (see Vol. I, p. 447), 1901.

1889 QUID ARISTOTELES DE LOCO SENSERIT.
   A Latin thesis, presented along with the following French
     thesis, for the degree of Docteur-es-Lettres. Published
     Alcan, Paris, pp. 82.

1889 ESSAI SUR LES DONNEES IMMEDIATES DE LA CONSCIENCE.
   French thesis, presented along with the above Latin
     thesis, for the degree of Docteur-es-Lettres. Published
     by Alcan, Paris, same year, in La Bibliotheque de philosophie
     contemporaine (pp viii-185) Eighteen editions
     called for by 1920.

   English Translation: Time and Free Will, by F. L. Pogson,
     M.A. Published in 1910 by Swan & Sonnenschein
     (now George Allen & Unwin) in Library of Philosophy.

1891 LA GENESE DE L'IDEE DE TEMPS.
   A review, published in the Revue philosophique (Vol. for
     1891, pp 185-190), of the book by Jean Mane Guyau,
     La Genese de l'Idee de Temps, with an introduction by
     Alfred Fouillee which appeared posthumously in 1890,
     two years after Guyau's death.

1895 LE BON SENS ET LES ETUDES CLASSIQUES.
   Discours au concours general des lycees et colleges, 1895--
     another prize-giving address. Published in Revue
     scientifique, 4th Ser., No. 15, pp. 705-713, June, 1901,
     and by Delalain, Paris, 1895.

1896 MATIERE ET MEMOIRE.
     Essai sur la relation du corps avec l'esprit.
   Bergson's second notable work Published by Alcan,
     Paris, in Bibliotheque de philosophie contemporaine,
     pp iii-280. Thirteen editions by 1919.
   English Translation: Matter and Memory, by Nancy
     Margaret Paul and W. S. Palmer. Published 1911,
     Swan & Sonnenschein (now George Allen & Unwin), in
     the Library of Philosophy.

1897 PRINCIPES DE METAPHYSIQUE ET DE PSYCHOLOGIE
     D'APRES MONSIEUR PAUL JANET.
   A critical review in Revue philosophique (Vol. XLIV,
     Nov., 1897, pp. 525-551).

1900 LE RIRE.
   Essai sur la signification du comique.
   First published as two articles in Revue de Paris, 1900
     (Vol. I, pp. 512-545 and pp. 759-791). Book form,
     Paris (Alcan), 1901, Bibliotheque de philosophie contemporaine,
     pp. vii-205. By 1919, seventeen editions.
   English Translation: Laughter--An Essay on the Meaning
     of the Comic, by Brereton and Rothwell. Published
     1911, Macmillan.
   This essay is based on a lecture given by Bergson while
     at Clermont-Ferrand, on Feb 18, 1884, a report of which
     appeared in the local paper Moniteur du Puy de Dome,
     Feb. 21, 1884.

1900 NOTES SUR LES ORIGINES PSYCHOLOGIES DE
     NOTRE CROYANCE A LA LOI DE CAUSALITE.
   Short paper of fifteen pages, read at the First International
     Congress of Philosophy, held in Paris, August 1 to 5,
     1900 Published in Bibhotheque du Congres International
     de Philosophie, being special numbers of the
     Revue de metaphysique et de morale. Paris (Armand
     Colin). Discussion reported in the Revue, Sept, 1900,
     Vol VIII, pp 655-660.

1901 LE REVE.
   Confrence a l'Institut psychologique international.
     March 26, 1901 Published, Pans, Bulletin de l'Institut,
     May, 1901; Revue scientifique, June 8, 1901, and
     abridged, Revue de philosophie, 1901. As Book, Alcan,
     1901.
   Reprinted in the volume of collected papers L'Energie
     spiriuelle, 1919, pp 91-116.
   English Translation: Dreams, by Dr Edwin E Slosson.
     Published first as articles in the Independent of Oct 23
     and 30, 1913 Book form 1914 Fisher Unwin.
   Reissued in 1920 in Mind-Energy, English Translation of
     L'Energie spirituelle.

1901 LE PARALLELISME PSYCHO-PHYSIQUE ET LA METAPHYSIQUE
     POSITIVE.
   Bergson's first contribution to the Bulletin de la Societe
     franaise de philosophie, June, 1901. The important
     lecture in which he defended the propositions set forth
     on pages 53-54 of this present work.

1901 L'INCONSCIENT DANS LA VIE MENTALE.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Socit franaise de philosophie.

1901 LE VOCABULAIRE TECHNIQUE ET CRITIQUE DE
     LA PHILOSOPHIE.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Socit franaise de philosophie.

1902 L'EFFORT INTELLECTUEL.
   Article in the Revue philosophique, Jan, 1902, Vol XLIII,
     pp 1-27. This article supplements parts of the larger
     work Matire et Mmoire.
   Reprinted in 1919 in the volume of collected essays,
     L'Energie spintuelle, pp 163-202 English Translation
     in 1920 in volume Mind-Energy (Macmillan).

1902 L'INTELLECT ET LA VOLONTE
   Discours au Lyce Voltaire, July, 1902 Published
     Imprimerie Quelquejeu

1902 LE VOCABULAIRE PHILOSOPHIQUE.
   Collaboration Bulletin de la Societ franaise de philosophie,
     July, 1902.

1903 RAPPORT SUR LA FONDATION "CARNOT" (1902).
   Published in Jan, 1903, in Seances et travaux de l'Academie
     des sciences morales et pohtiques. Also Memoires de
     l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques, 1904.

1903 INTRODUCTION A LA METAPHYSIQUE.
   Article in Revue de mtaphysique et de morale. Paris,
     Jan, 1903.
   English Translation: An Introduction to Metaphysics, by
     T. E. Hulme Published in 1913, Macmillan.
   Valuable as an independent statement of his doctrine of
     Intuition. Not to be regarded as a mere epitome of the
     larger works, although it makes a good preface to them.
   To be included in forthcoming volume of collected essays
     and lectures.

1903 LA PLACE ET LE CARACTERE DE LA PHILOSOPHIE
     DANS L'ENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIRE.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Societ franaise de philosophie,
     Feb., 1903, p. 44. An address delivered before the
     Societ in Dec., 1902.

1903 LA NOTION DE LA LIBERTE MORALE.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Societ franaise de philosophie,
     April, 1903, p. 101.

1903 RAPPORT SUR LE PRIX "HALPHEN."
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques,
     July, 1903. Also Memoir es de l'Academie des sciences
     morales et politiques, 1904.

1903 LA PHILOSOPHIE SOCIALE DE COURNOT.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Societ franaise de philosophie,
     Aug, 1903, p. 229.

1904 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE RUSKIN "LA
     BIBLE D'AMIENS."
   Traduction francaise de M. Proust, Seances de l'Acadimie
     des sciences morales et politiques, 1904.

1904 NOTICE SUR LA VIE ET SUR LES OEUVRES DE
     FELIX RAVAISSON-MOLLIEN, Lue dans les seances
     du 20 et 27 fevrier, 1904, de l'Academie des sciences
     morales et politiques.

   Published in Seances et travaux de l'Academie des sciences
     morales et politiques, Paris, 1904, and in Memoires de
     l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques, in 1907.

1904 LE PARALOGISME PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGIQUE.
   Lecture given at the Second International Congress of
     Philosophy held at Geneva from Sept. 4 to 8, 1904.
     Published in Revue de metaphysique et de morale,
     numero exceptionel (Nov, 1904).
   Reprinted in 1919 in the volume of collected essays
     L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 203-223, under new title
     Le Cerveau et la pensee: une illusion philosophique.
     English Translation, 1920 in volume: Mind-Energy.

1904 LES COURBES RESPIRATOIRES PENDANT L'HYPNOSE
   Article contributed to the Bulletin de l'Institut general
     psychologique.

1904 PREFACE de la Psychologie Rationelle, d'Emile Lubac.
   Published at Paris, Alcan. Four pages on Intuition.

1904 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. MORTET
   "Notes sur le texte des 'Institutiones' de Cassiodore."
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1904 VISION DE LUEURS DANS L'OBSCURITE PAR LES
     SENSITIFS.
   Bulletin de l'Institut general psychologique, Jan., 1904.

1904 LES RADIATIONS "N."
   Bulletin de l'Institut general psychologiques, Jan., 1904.

1905 ESPRIT ET MATIERE.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Societe francaise de philosophie.

1905 THEORIE DE LA PERCEPTION.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Societe francaise de philosophie,
     March, 1905, pp. 94-95. An address given in Dec.,
     1904.

1905 REPONSE A MONSIEUR RAGEOT.
   Article in Revue philosophique, Vol LX, p 229. Criticism
     by Monsieur Rageot appears on p. 84. See Ward on
     this point. Realm of Ends, p. 307.

1905 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. OSSIP LOURIE
     (now Professeur a l'Universite nouvelle de Bruxelles).
   Le Bonheur et l'intelligence, published by Alcan in 1904.
     Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1905 RELATION A WILLIAM JAMES ET A JAMES WARD.
   A Letter on la duree in the Revue philosophique, Aug.,
     1905. Vol. LX, pp. 229-230

1906 RAPPORT SUR LE CONCOURS POUR LE PRIX
     "BORDIN" (1905).
   Ayant pour sujet "Maine de Biran." Seances de l'Academie
     des sciences morales et politiques, 1906: also Memoires
     de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques, 1907.

1906 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. BARDOUX.
   Essai d'une psychology de l'Angleterre contemporaine
     (premiere partie).
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1906 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M LUQUET,
     entitule:--
   Idees generales de psychologie.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1906 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. GAULTIER,
     entitule:--
   Le Sens de l'art, avec une preface de M. Emile Boutroux.
   Sances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1907 L'EVOLUTION CREATRICE.
   Published by Alcan, Paris, in La Bibliothque de philosophie
     contemporaine, 1907 (pp viii   4O3). By 1918 the work
     was in its twenty-first edition.
   English Translation: Creative Evolution, by Arthur
     Mitchell, Ph.D. Published in 1911, Macmillan.
   This is Bergson's third large work, and his most important,
     being one of the most profound and original contributions
     to the philosophieal consideration of the theory
     of Evolution.
     "Un livre comme L'Evolution cratrice n'est pas seulement
     une oeuvre mais une date celle d'une direction
     nouvelle imprime a la pense." Pierre Imbart de la
     Tour--in Le Pangermanisme et la philosophie de l'histoire.

1907 ARTICLE SUR "L'EVOLUTION CREATRICE."
   Revue du Mois, Sept., 1907, pp. 351-354. Bergson's reply
     to a critic, M. Le Dantec.

1907 VOCABULAIRE PHILOSOPHIQUE.
   Collaboration. Bulletin de la Societ franaise de philosophie,
     Aug., 1907.

1907 RAPPORT SUR LE CONCOURS POUR LE PRIX
     "LE DISSEZ DE PENANRUN."
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques,
     1907. PP. 91-102. Also in Memoires de l'Academie des
     sciences morales et politiques, 1909.

1907 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. BARDOUX.
   Psychologie de l'Angleterre contemporaine (Deuxieme
     partie).
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1908 REPONSE A UNE ENQUETE INTERNATIONALE
     SUR LA QUESTION RELIGIEUSE.
   Arranged by the Mercure de France, and published in Paris
     in the book La Question Religieuse, by Frederic Charpin.
     Bergson's answer is less than a page.

1908 L'INFLUENCE DE SA PHILOSOPHIE SUR LES
     ELEVES DES LYCEES.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Societe francaise de philosophie,
     Jan., 1908 Address delivered before the Societ in
     the previous Nov.

1908 LETTRE SUR L'INFLUENCE DE SA PHILOSOPHIE
     SUR LES ELEVES DES LYCEES
   Appended to Binet's L'Evolution de l'ensignement philosophique,
     in L'Anne psychologique, 1908, pp. 230-231.

1908 LE SOUVENIR DU PRESENT ET LA FAUSSE RECONAISSANCE.
   Article in the Revue philosophique, Dec, 1908, pp 561-
     593.
   Reprited in 1919 in the volume of collected essays
     L'Energie spirituelle, pp 117-161 English Translation
     in volume: Mind-Energy. Macmillan, 1920.

1908 L'EVOLUTION DE L'INTELLIGENCE GEOMETRIQUE.
   Article in the Revue de metaphysique et de morale, Jan,
     1908, pp. 28-33. Another reply to a critic, Monsieur
     Borel.

1908 VOCABULAIRE PHILOSOPHIQUE.
   Collaboration. Bulletin de la Societe francaise de philosophie,
     Aug, 1908. On the words "immediat" and
     "inconnaissable"

1908 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. MERLANT,
     ayant pour sujet "Senancour"
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1908 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. BAZAILLAS,
     entitule:--
   Musique et inconscience.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1908 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. BOIRAC,
     entitule:--
   La psychologie inconnue.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1908 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. NAYRAC.
   La Fontaine.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1909 PREFACE A "GABRIEL TARDE"
   A volume of the collection Les Grands Philosophes, published
     by Louis Michaud, Paris.
   This book was written by Tarde's sons. It is interesting
     to note that Tarde was Bergson's predecessor in the
     Chair of Modern Philosophy at the College de France.
   The Preface (pp. 5 and 6) treats of Causality
   A volume of this same series devoted to Bergson himself
     appeared in 1910, by Rene Gillouin.

1909 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. MEYERSON,
     entitule:--
   Identiti et realite.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1909 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. HENRI
     DELACROIX.
   Etudes d'histoire et de psychologie du mysticisme.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1909 L'ORGANISATION DES CONGRES DE PHILOSOPHIE.
   Article in the Bulletin de la Societe francaise de philosophie,
     Jan., 1909.

1909 VOCABULAIRE PHILOSOPHIQUE.
   Collaboration Bulletin de la Societe francaise de philosophie,
     Aug., 1909.

1910 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. WENDELL.
   La France d'aujourd hui.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politques.

1910 RAPPORT SUR LE CONCOURS POUR LES PRIX
     "CHARLES L'EVEQUE."
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1910 JAMES ET BERGSON.
   Remarques a propos d'un article de Mr. W. B. Pitkin,
     intitule James and Bergson, or, Who is against Intellect?
   Mr. Pitkin's article appeared in the Journal of Philosophy,
     Psychology, and Scientific Methods on April 28, 1910.
     Bergson's reply appeared in the same journal on July
     7th of the same year.

1910 NEW INTRODUCTION WRITTEN IN ENGLISH FOR
     THE ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF MATIERE
     ET MEMOIRE.
   This new introduction was subsequently translated
     into French and prefaced to the next French edition of
     Matiere et Memoire which appeared. This was the
     seventh edition. The English translation by Nancy
     Margaret Paul and W. Scott Palmer was published in
     1911 (see note under date 1896).
   The new introduction called attention mainly to the
     change in orthodox opinion regarding aphasia which
     had come about since the original publication of the
     work in French in 1896--a change of view which only
     served to make Bergson's opinions appear less novel and
     more probable.

1910 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. DAURIAC.
   Le musicien-poete Wagner: etude de psychologie musicale.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1910 RAPPORT SUR UN OUVRAGE DE M. JOUSSAIN.
     entitule:--
   Le Fondement psychologique de la morale.
   Seances de l'Academie des sciences morales et politiques.

1910 L'INCONSCIENT DANS LA VIE MENTALE
   Remarques a propos d'une these soutenue par M.
     Dwelshauvers (Now Belgian Professor.) An address
     delivered to the Societe in the previous November.
     Published in the Bulletin de la Societe francaise de
     philosophie, Feb., 1910. Here Bergson has another encounter
     with a critic. As far back as 1901 Bergson contributed to
     this same periodical an article bearing this title. M.
     Georges Dwelshauvers criticized Bergson's views in his articles--

   "Raison et Intuition," tude sur la philosophie de M. Bergson,
     in La Belgique artistique et litteraire, Nov.-Dec., 1905,
     and April, 1906.

   "Bergson et la methode intuitive," in the Revue des Mois,
     Sept., 1907.

   "De l'intuition dans l'acte de l'esprit," in the Revue de
     mtaphysique et de morale, Jan., 1908.


1911 L'INTUITION PHILOSOPHIQUE.
   Paper read at the Fourth International Congress of Philosophy,
     held at Bologna, April 5 to 11, 1911. Published in Nov. in
     Revue de mtaphysique et de morale (Numero exceptionel),
     pp. 809-827. To reappear in forthcoming second volume of
     collected papers.


1911 LA PERCEPTION DU CHANGEMENT.
   Deux confrences faites a l'Universit d'Oxford, les 26 et
     27 Mai, 1911.
     Published in original French by the Clarendon Press,
     Oxford, in 1911. (Out of print now.) To reappear in
     forthcoming second volume of collected essays and lectures.

1911 LIFE AND CONSCIOUSNESS.
   The Huxley Lecture delivered at University of Birmingham,
     May 29, 1911. Published in The Hibbert Journal
     for Oct., 1911, Vol X, pp. 24-44, and also in the volume
     Huxley Memorial Lectures in 1914.
   In a revised and somewhat developed form this appeared
     in 1919 in the volume of collected essays and lectures
     L'Energie spirituelle, pp. 1-29 (Mind-Energy, 1920).


1911 VERITE ET REALITE
   Introduction of sixteen pages written for the French
     Translation of William James' Pragmatism. Translated
     by Le Brun. Published Flammarion, Paris.

1911 LES REALITES QUE LA SCIENCE N'ATTEINT PAS.
   Article in Foi et Vie (French Protestant Review).

1911 LA NATURE DE L'AME.
   Four lectures delivered at the University of London, Oct.,
     1911. Up to the time of writing, these lectures have
     not been published Reports are to be found, however,
     in The Times, Oct 21, 23, 28 and 30, 1911 (For definite
     information regarding these lectures, I am indebted
     to Mr. Reginald Rye, Librarian of the University of
     London, to the University of London Press, and to
     Professor Bergson himself.)

1912 L'AME ET LE CORPS.
   Confrence faite pour la Societ Foi et Vie. Published
     in Le Matrialisme actuel, Paris, 1913, Flammarion.
   During the year 1912, the Paris Review Foi et Vie arranged
     a series of lectures on Materialism. These were given
     in Paris, alternating with a series on Pascal, likewise
     arranged by Foi et Vie, under the direction of in Paul
     Doumergue, chief editor This was the sixth year in
     which such courses of lectures had been arranged by
     this Review. The most of these lectures were subsequently
     published in the Review itself, but the 1912
     lectures on Materialism were issued separately in a
     volume entitled Le Materialisme actuel, published in
     the Bibliotheque de philosophie scientifique, with a preface
     by in Paul Doumergue. Two illustrious names headed
     the list of lecturers--those of Henri Bergson and the
     late Henri Poincare. Bergson's lecture bears the title
     L'Ame et le Corps, pp. 7-48. (I am told by Prof.
     Bergson that it is a Summary of the four unpublished
     London lectures.)
   This was reprinted in 1919 in L'Energie spirituelle, pp.
     31-63 (Mind-Energy, 1920).

1912 PREFACE written for the French Translation of Eucken's
     Der Sinn und der Wert des Lebens
   Le sens et la valeur de la vie--translated by M. A.
     Hullet and A. Leicht. Published, Paris, Alcan.

1912 LETTER ON HIS PHILOSOPHY IN RELATION TO THEOLOGY.
   Written to Father de Tonquedec, S J, in the Jesuit periodical
     Les Etudes of Feb 20, 1912,Vol CXXX, pp 514-515.
     Father de Tonquedec had criticized Bergson's philosophy
     from the point of view of Roman Catholic Theology.
     The following are amongst his criticisms:
   La Notion de la veritt dans la philosophie nouvelle, Paris,
     1908.
   Comment interpreter l'ordre du monde a-propos du dernier
     ouvrage de in Bergson, Paris, Beauchesne, 1908.
   Bergson est-il moniste? Article in Les Annales de
     philosophie chretienne, March, 1912.
   Dieu dans l'Evolution cratrice, Beauchesne, 1912, which
     gives two letters from Bergson

1913 FANTOMES DE VIVANTS ET RECHERCHE PSYCHIQUE
   Presidential address to the British Society for Psychical
     Research. Delivered at the Aeolian Hall, London,
     May 28, 1913. Published report in the Times, May 29,
     1913; and of the New York Times, Sept 27,1914,
     Proceedings of the Society, Vol 1914-15, pp 157-175.
     This address was reprinted in 1919 in L'Energie
     spirituelle, pp 65-89. English Translation: Mind-
     Energy, 1920.

1914 LETTER TO "LE FIGARO."
   Letter on his Philosophy generally, March 7, 1914.

1914 THE PROBLEM OF PERSONALITY.
   The Gifford Lectures at Edinburgh University One
     course of eleven lectures, given in the Spring. The
     Autumn course was abandoned owing to the War.
     These lectures have not yet been published. (For information
     regarding them I am indebted to Mr. F. C.
     Nicholbon, Librarian of the University of Edinburgh,
     and to Prof. Bergson himself.)

1914 LA FORCE QUI S'USE ET CELLE QUI NE S'USE PAS.
   Article written for the famous organ of the poilus. Bulletin
     des Armees de la Republique francaise, Nov. 4, 1914.

1914 HOMMAGE AU ROI ALBERT ET AU PEUPLE BELGE.
   Contribution to King Albert's Book, issued by the
     Daily Telegraph.

1915 LA SIGNIFICATION DE LA GUERRE
   Collection of War speeches and writings in the series
     Pages actuelles, 1914-15. Published by Bloud et Gay,
     Paris, 1915. Small volume of 47 pages Contains:
   1. Discours prononce a l'Academie des Sciences morales
     et politiques le 12 dec, 1914, pp 7-29. This was a
     Presidential address La Signification de la Guerre.
   2. Allocution prononcee a l'Academie le 16 Jan, 1915,
     a l'occasion de l'installation de M. Alexandre Ribot
     au fauteuil de la presidence (in succession to Bergson).
     Reported only in part, pp 33-35.
   3. La force qui s'use et celle qui ne s'use pas, pp 39-42.
     Reprinted from the pages of the Bulletin des Armees
     de la, Republique francaise, Nov. 4, 1914.
   4. Hommage au Roi Albert et au Peuple Belge, pp 45-46.
     Reprinted from King Albert's Book, War publication of
     Daily Telegraph.
   Items Nos 1 and 3 have been translated into English
     as The Meaning of the War, with preface by Dr. H.
     Wildon Carr. Published 1915, Fisher Unwin. No. 1
     appeared in The Hibbert Journal in English, as "Life
     and Matter at War," April, 1915, pp. 465-475; and in the
     American paper The Living Age on July 31, 1915, pp. 259-264

1915 AUTOUR DE LA GUERRE
   A discourse on the Evolution of German Imperialism,
     delivered before the Academie des Sciences morales et
     politiques. Published in La Revue, Feb.-March, 1915,
     pp. 369-377.

1915 LA PHILOSOPHIE.
   Ouvrage publi sous les auspices du ministre de
     l'Instruction publique. A delightful little work of 27 pages.
     Reprinted from La Scienc franaise, Tome I.
   Published in the series of that name by Larousse, Pans,
     and costing fifty centimes. It is a review of French
     Philosophy, and contains a bibliography, and portraits
     of the philosophers, Descartes, Malebranche, Pascal,
     and Renouvier.

1916 LETTRE A PROF. HOFFDING.
   Published in the original French in the French edition
     of the Danish Professor's Lectures on Bergson; La
     Philosophie de Bergson expose et critique par H.
     Hoffding, Professeur a l'Universit de Copenhague.
     Traduit d'aprs l'dition danoise avec un avant-
     propos par Jacques de Coussange et suivi d'une lettre
     de M. Bergson  l'auteur. Alcan, Paris. The letter, pp.
     l57-165.

1917 PREFACE A "LA MISSION FRANCAISE EN
   AMERIQUE 24 AVRIL-13 MAI, 1917."
   Compiled by M. R. Viviani, published, Flammarion,
     Paris, 1917, pp 264. Bergson's Preface is seven pages.

1918 DISCOURS DE RECEPTION.
   Bergson's address on being received by the Academy.
     On M. Ollivier. Published by Perrin, Paris. Seance de
     l'Academie francaise, Jan. 24, 1918, pp. 44. (The work
     also contains the reply to Bergson by the Director of
     the Academy, M. Rene Doumic, pp. 45-75.)

1919 L'ENERGIE SPIRITUELLE (Essais et Conferences).
   Felix Alcan's Bibliotheque de philosophie contemporaire,
     pp. 227.
   This is a volume of collected essays and lectures of which
     three editions appeared in 1919. It deals with the
     concept of mental force, with problems of the interaction
     of mind and body, and with Bergson's view of "tension"
     and "detension" in relation to matter and mind.
   With a brief foreword, explaining that this is the first of a
     couple of volumes of collected essays, there are seven
     papers:
       1. "La Conscience et la Vie," pp. 1-29. A revised and
         developed version of "Life and Consciousness," the
         Huxley Lecture of 1911.
       2. "L'Ame et le Corps," pp. 31-63. Reprinted from
         Le Materialisme actuel. Lecture given in 1912.
       3. "Fantomes de Vivants et Recherche Psychique,"
         pp. 65-89. Presidential address of 1913.
       4. "Le Reve," pp. 91-116. The lecture of 1901.
       5. "Le Souvenir du present et la fausse reconnaissance,"
         pp. 117-161. Reprint from Revue philosophique of
         article of 1908.
       6. "L'Effort intellectuel," pp. 163-202. Reprint from
         Revue philosophique of article of 1902.
       7. "Le Cerveau et la Pensee: une illusion philosophique,"
         pp. 203-223. The Lecture given at the International
         Congress at Geneva, formerly printed in the Revue de
         metaphysique et de morale as "Le Paralogisme psycho-
         physiologique."
       English Translation: MIND-ENERGY, by Dr. Wildon Carr.
         Macmillan, 1920.

   The forthcoming second volume of collected essays on The
     Method of Intuitional Philosophy will contain inter alia:
     Introduction on "Method."
   Reprint of "L'Intuition philosophique." Introduction a la
     metaphysique, "La Perception du Changement."

Three articles, bearing the titles "Memoire et reconaissance,"
"Perception et matiere" and "L'Idee de neant," which appeared
respectively in Revue philosophique (1896), Revue de metaphysique
et de morale (1896) and Revue philosophique (1906) have been
omitted from their places in the above list because they were
subsequently incorporated into the larger works Matiere et
Memoire and L'Evolution creatrice.



BIBLIOGRAPHY

PART TWO

BOOKS AND ARTICLES ON BERGSON

Section I. Books directly on Bergson

(a) French Publications.

BENDA, Julien.
 Le Bergsonisme ou une Philosophie de la Mobilit. Paris, Mercure
   de France. 1912.

 Une Philosophie pathtique. Cahiers de la Quinzaine. Paris,
   1913, Ser. 15, Cah 2.

 Sur le succes du Bergsonisme. 1914. Incorporates Une
   Philosophie pathtique.

BERTHELOT, R.
 Un Romantisme Utilitaire. Paris, 1911. Vol. 2, Le Pragramatisme
   chez Bergson.

 Le pragmatisme de Bergson. Paris, Alcan, 1913.

COIGNET, Clarisse.
 De Kant a Bergson. Reconciliation de la religion et de la science
   dans un spiritualisme nouveau. Paris, 1911 (Alcan).
   Concluding 60 pages deal with Bergson.

DESAYMARD, Joseph.
 La Pensee d'Henri Bergson. In series Les Hommes et les Idees.
   Paris, 1912. Mercure de France. Pp. 82. With portrait
   and bibliography (reprint of Mr. Pogson's list).

DWELSHAUVERS, Georges.
 Raison et intuition. Etudes sur la philosophie de Bergson, 1906.

FARGES.
 Theorie fondamentale de l'Acte et de la Puissance avec la critique
   de la philosophie nouvelle de MM. Bergson et Le Roy. Paris,
   1909. (Etudes philosophiques, No. 1.)

 La philosophie de M. Bergson. Expose et critique. Paris, 1912.

FOUILLEE, Alfred.
 La Pensee et les nouvelles ecoles anti-intellectuelles. Paris, 1910.

GAGNEBIN, S.
 La philosophie de l'intuition. 1912. Saint Blaise, 'Foyer
   Solidariste. Pp. 240. Mainly on Le Roy, Bergson's disciple, but a
   third of the book deals with the master.

GILLOUIN, Rene.
 Bergson: Choix de textes, etudes sur l'OEuvre, notices biographiques
   et bibliographiques. Paris, 1910, Michaud. Series Les
   Grands Philosophes. Illustrated. Pp. 220.

 Essay of 30 pages on Bergson's philosophy. Extracts from
   Bergson's works. Pp. 39-220.

 La Philosophie de M. Bergson. Paris, 1911, Grasset. Pp. 187.

GRANDJEAN, F.
 Une revolution dans la philosophie, La Doctrine de Bergson.
   Atar, Geneva, 2nd ed., 1916.

LE ROY, Edouard.
 Une Philosophie nouvelle: Henri Bergson. Paris, 1912.
   English Translation: A New Philosophy: Henri Bergson, by
   Vincent Benson. 1913. Williams and Norgate. Pp. 235.
   The author of this work is Bergson's famous pupil, who now
   lectures in his place at the College de France.

MARITAIN, J.
 La philosophie bergsonienne. Paris, Riviere, 1914. Pp. 477.

MEUNIER, D.
 Lecon de Bergson. 1914.

PEGUY, Charles.
 Note Sur M. Bergson et la philosophie bergsonienne. Paris.
   (Bourgeois). Cahiers de la Quinzaine. Pp. 101.

PENIDO, Dr. M. T. L.
 La methode intuitive de Bergson. Essai critique. Atar, Geneva,
   and Alcan, Paris, 1918, pp. 220.

SEGOND, J.
 L'Intuition bergsonienne. Alcan, Paris, 1912 and 1913. Pp. 157.


(b) English and American Publications

BALSILLIE, David.
 An Examination of Professor Bergson's Philosophy. 1912. Williams
   and Norgate. Pp. 228.

CARR, Dr. H. Wildon.
 Henri Bergson: The Philosophy of Change, 1912. Jack,
   "The People's Books." Pp. 91. Good brief sketch. 1919.
   Jack and Nelson. Second revised edition. Pp. 126.

 The Philosophy of Change: A study of the Fundamental Principle
   of the Philosophy of Bergson. 1914. Macmillan. Pp. 216.

 Time and History in Contemporary Philosophy, with special
   reference to Bergson and Croce. Proceedings of British
   Academy, 1918. Pp. 20. Separately, Oxford University Press.

CUNNINGHAM, Gustave W., Dr.
 Study in the Philosophy of Bergson. 1916. Longman. New
   York. Pp. 212.

DODSON, G. R., Dr.
 Bergson and the Modern Spirit. An Essay in Constructive
   Thought. 1914. Lindsey Press. Pp. 295.

ELLIOT, Hugh S. R.
 Modern Science and the Illusions of Professor Bergson. 1912.
   Preface by Sir Ray Lankester. Longman, New York, and
   1913, Longman, London. Pp. 257. Very hostile to Bergson,
   indeed contemptuously or bitterly so.

GERRARD, Father Thomas.
 Bergson: an Exposition and Criticism from the point of view of
   Saint Thomas Aquinas. 1913. Sands & Co. Pp. 208.

HERMANN, Mrs. E.
 Bergson and Eucken. Their significance for Christian Thought.
   1912. James Clark & Co. Pp. 224.

HOFFDING, Prof Harald.
 Six Lectures on Bergson. Delivered 1913. Published in the
   volume Modern Philosophers, Macmillan, 1915. Pp. 227-302.
   Translated by Alfred C. Mason.

HOUGH, Dr. Lynn H.
 The Quest of Wonder. Studies in Bergson and Theology.

JOHNSTON, W. (with MISS I. MUDGE).
 A Contribution to a Bibliography of Henri Bergson. 1913.
   Columbia University Press, New York. Pp. 56. For this
   pamphlet, Professor John Dewey has written an introduction.

KALLEN, H. M.
 William James and Henri Bergson: A Study of Contrasting
   Theories of Life. 1914. Chicago University Press. Pp. 248.

KITCHIN, Darcy B.
 Bergson for Beginners: A Summary of his Philosophy. 1913.
   Geo. Allen and Unwin. Pp. 309.

LE ROY, Edouard.
 A New Philosophy: Henri Bergson. 1913. Williams and Norgate.
   English Translation by V. Benson of Une Nouvelle
   philosophie. Pp. 235.

LIBBY, M. F.
 The Continuity of Bergson's Thought. 1912. University of
   Colorado Studies, Vol. 9, No. 4. Pp. 147-202.

LINDSAY, A. D.
 The Philosophy of Bergson. 1911. Dent. Pp. 247.

LOVEJOY.
 Bergson and Romantic Evolutionism. 1914. University of
   California Press, Berkeley. Pp. 61.

MILLER, Lucius Hopkins.
 Bergson and Religion. 1916. Holt & Co., New York. (Out of
   print.)

MITCHELL, Dr. Arthur.
 Studies in Bergson's Philosophy. 1914. Kansas University
   Humanistic Studies, Vol. 1, No. 2. Pp. 115.

PECKHAM, G. W.
 The Logic of Bergson's Philosophy. (Time and Free Will
   compared with Matter and Memory.) 1917. Archives of Philosophy,
   Columbia University Press, New York, No. 8. Pp. 68.

RUHE AND PAUL.
 Henri Bergson: An Account of his Life and Philosophy. 1914.
   Macmillan. Pp. 245 (With portrait.)

RUSSELL, Hon. Bertrand.
 The Philosophy of Bergson. 1914. London, Macmillan for Bowes,
   Cambridge. Pp. 36. Lecture to The Heretics, Cambridge,
   March 11, 1912. Contains reply by Dr. Wildon Carr, and
   rejoinder by Mr. Russell.

SAIT, Bernard Una.
 The Ethical Implications of Bergson's Philosophy. 1914. Columbia
   University Contributions to Philosophy and Psychology. New
   York Science Press. Pp. 183.

SEWELL, Frank, Dr.
 Is the Universe Self-Centred or God-Centred? 1913. Examination
   of the systems of Eucken and Bergson.
   Presidential Address to Swedenborg Scientific Association,
   Philadelphia, USA. Published by the Association. Pp. 13.

SHASTRI, Prabhu Datta.
 The Conception of Freedom in Hegel, Bergson, and Indian
   Philosophy. 1914. Address before the Calcutta Philosophical
   Society, March 14, 1913. Published Albion Press, Calcutta.
   Pp. 26.

SOLOMON, Joseph.
 Bergson. 1911. Constable, in Series Philosophies Ancient and
   Modern. Pp. 128.

STEWART, Dr. J. M'Kellar.
 A Critical Exposition of Bergson's Philosophy. 1911. Macmillan
   Pp. 295.

WILM, Emil C.
 Henri Bergson: A Study in Radical Evolution. (1914.) Sturgis




HOOGVILD, J.E.H.J.
 De Niewe Wysbegeerte: Een studie over H. Bergson. 1911.

JACOBSON, Malte.
 Henri Bergson's Intuitionsfilosofi.

LEVI, A.
 La filosofia della contingenza. Firenze, Seeber, 1905. In
   L'indeterminismo nella filosofita francese contemporanea.

LARSSON, Prof. Hans.
 Intuitionsprobleme.

OLGIATI, F.
 La Filosofia di Enrico Bergson, 1914.

PAPINI, Giovanni.
 Stroncature. Firenze, 1918. Libreria della voce. Section on
   Bergson and Croce (in French), written in 1914. Pp. 51-56.

RUHE, Algot.
 Henri Bergson: Tankesattet. 1914. Swedish volume (similar to
   his English work in conjunction with Miss Paul). Stockholm.


Section II. Books dealing Indirectly with Bergson

(a) French Publications

CHAUMEIX, A.
 Pragmatisme et Modernisme. Paris, Alcan, 1909

DWELSHAUVERS, Georges.
 La Synthse mentale. Alcan, Paris, 1908.

FOUILLEE, Alfred.
 Le Mouvement idaliste et la Raction centre la Science positive,
   1896. Paris, Alcan.

IMBART DE LA TOUR, Pierre.
 Le Pangermanisme et la Philosophie de L'Histoire. Letter to
   Bergson, published in book form, 1916. Reprinted from Pour
   la verite, 1914-15. Perrin. Pp. 75. This letter was occasioned
   by Bergson's writings on the War.

LANESSAN, J. de.
 Transformation et Crationisme. 1914. Paris, Alcan.

PIAT, Clodius.
 Insuffisance des Philosophies de L'Intuition. 1908. Paris,
   Plon-Nourrit. Pp. 319.

SOREL, Georges.
 Reflexions sur la Violence. This has been translated into English
   by T.E. Hulme, and published by Geo. Allen and Unwin,
   Reflections on Violence.
   Les Illusions du Progres.
   Le Mouvement socialists. Collected volumes of the periodical.

WILBOIS.
 Devoir et Dure. 1912. Paris, Alcan. Pp. 408.

(b) English and American Publications

ALIOTTA.
 The Idealistic Reaction against Science 1914. Macmillan.
   English translation from Italian by W. Agnes McCaskill.

BENNETT, W.
 The Ethical Aspects of Evolution Regarded as the Parallel Growth
   of Opposite Tendencies. 1908. Clarendon Press, Oxford.

BJORKMAN, Edwin.
 Voices of Tomorrow. Critical studies of the New Spirit in
   Literature. London, Grant Richards. See Section The New
   Mysticism, Part 3, Its Philosopher, Henri Bergson, pp. 205-223.

BOSANQUET, B.
 The Principle of Individuality and Value. 1912. Macmillan.
   The Gifford Lectures for 1911. The Value and Destiny of
   the Individual. Gifford Lectures, 1912.

BURNS, Delisle.
 Political Ideals. Clarendon Press, Oxford Discusses in
   concluding pages the rational element in politics.

CALDWELL, Dr. Wm.
 Pragmatism and Idealism 1913. Macmillan, New York, and
   A. and C. Black, London. Chap. (9) is entitled "Pragmatism
   and Idealism in the Philosophy of Bergson," pp. 234-261.

CARR, H. Wildon.
 The Problem of Truth. Jack. "People's Books."

DREVER, Dr James.
 Instinct in Man. 1917. Cambridge University Press.

FREUD.
 Wit and its Relation to the Unconscious. Fisher Unwin.
   Remarks on Bergson's Le Rire, pp. 301 and 360.

GRUBB.
 The Religion of Experience. Chapter IV. Bergson and Intuition.

HARLEY, J. H.
 Syndicalism. "People's Books."

HARPER, Dr. J. Wilson.
 Christian Ethics and Social Progress. 1912. Contains chapter
   on Bergson.

HOCKING.
 Meaning of God in Human Experience. Yale University Press. 1912.

HUGEL, Baron Frednch von.
 Eternal Life: its Implications and Applications. T. and T.
   Clark. 1912. Deals with Bergson's view of duree and of
   Liberty, pp. 288-302.

HUNT, Harriet E.
 The Psychology of Auto-Education. Based on the interpretation
   of Intellect, given by Bergson in his Creative Evolution
   Illustrated in the work of Maria Montessori. 1912. Bardeen,
   Syracuse, New York.

INGE, Very Rev Dr W.R.
 The Philosophy of Plotmus. Gifford Lectures, published 1919.
   These lectures on the great Neo-platonist to whom Bergson
   owes not a little, contain important discussions of Bergson's
   views on Time, Consciousness and Change.

JACKS, L.P.
 Alchemy of Thought. Holt & Co, New York. 1911.

JAMES, William
 A Pluralistic Universe (Hibbert Lectures) 1909. Lectures 5
   and 6, pp 181-273.

JEVONS, Dr F.B.
 Personality. Methuen, 1913. Especially Chap. 3 on Bergson,
   pp 78-124.

JOHNSON, F.H.
 God in Evolution. A Pragmatic Study of Theology.. Longman. 1911.

JOHNSTONE, Dr James
 The Philosophy of Biology. 1914. Cambridge University Press.

JONES, Prof. Tudor.
 The Spiritual Ascent of Man. 1916. University of London Press,
   Chapter (4) Intellect and Intuition.

LAIRD, John
 Problems of the Self. Shaw Lectures at Edinburgh for 1914.
   1917. Macmillan.

LODGE, Sir Oliver.
 Modern Problems. Methuen, 1912. Balfour and Bergson, pp.
   189-210 (Chap. 18). Reprint of Article in Hibbert Journal
   (1912).

MACKENZIE, Prof.
 Elements of Constructive Philosophy. 1918. Geo Allen & Unwin.

MARSHALL
 Consciousness. On Revival and Memory. P. 436.

MELLOR, Dr Stanley A.
 Religion as Affected by Modern Science and Philosophy. 1914.
   Lindsey Press. Devotes a section to the consideration of
   Bergson and Religion, pp 147-166.

McCABE, Joseph.
 Principles of Evolution. Collins--Nation's Library. Very
   hostile to Bergson, pp 247-253.

McDOUGALL, William.
 Body and Mind 1911. Methuen & Co.

MORGAN, C. Lloyd.
 Instinct and Experience. Methuen. 1912.

PERRY, R.B.
 Present Philosophical Tendencies. 1912. Longmans. U.S.A.

PRINGLE-PATTISON, A.S.
 The Idea of God. Gifford Lectures, 1912-13. Lecture (19) on
   Bergson, pp. 366-385.

RUSSELL, Bertrand
 Our Knowledge of the External World. 1914. Open Court Publishing
   Co. Chapter (8) on Cause and Free Will, criticizes Bergson,
   pp. 229-242.
 The Principles of Social Reconstruction. Geo. Allen & Co. 1917.
   Shows Impulse to be greater than conscious purpose in
   our social life.
 Mysticism and Logic. 1918. Longman.
 Roads to Freedom. On Socialism, Anarchism and Syndicalism.
   Geo. Allen & Co. 1918.

SANTAYANA, Prof. George.
 Winds of Doctrine.. Scribner, U.S.A.

SAROLEA, Prof. Charles.
 The French Renascence. 1916. Allen and Unwin. Chapter on
    Bergson, pp. 271-284, with portrait.

SCOTT. J.W.
 Syndicalism and Philosophical Realism. 1919. A.& C. Black.
   For Bergson, pp. 70-160.

SLOSSON, Dr. E.
 Major Prophets of To-day. 1914. Little, Boston, U.S.A.
   Pp. 44-103. (Portrait.)

SMITH, Norman Kemp, D. Phil.
 Commentary to Kant's Critique of Pure Reason. 1918. Macmillan.

SORLEY, Dr. W.R.
 Moral Values and the Idea of God. Cambridge University
   Press, 1918. Gifford Lectures, 1914-15. Discusses Intuition
   and Vital Impulse.

STEBBING, L. Susan, M.A.
 Pragmatism and French Voluntarism with Special Reference to
   the Notion of Truth in the Development of Philosophy from Maine
   de Biran to Bergson. M.A. (London.) Thesis, 1912. Cambridge
   University Press, 1914. Girton College Studies, No 6.

UNDERHILL, Evelyn.
 Mysticism. A Study in the Nature and development of man's
   spiritual consciousness. Dutton, U.S.A. 1912.

WALLAS, Graham.
 The Great Society. Error on p. 236, where he has 1912 for 1911,
   as date of Bergson's Lectures at London University.

WARD, Prof. James.
 The Realm of Ends. (Pluralism and Theism.) Cambridge
   University Press. Cf. pp. 306-7.

WARDELL, R.J.
 Contemporary Philosophy. Contains careless blunders. The
   date of the publication of L'Evolution creatrice in Paris is
   given as 1901 instead of 1907. This is on page 74. Then on
   page 95, Lectures given at London University are referred
   to as having been given at Oxford. The whole section of 28
   pages, devoted to Bergson, tends to be somewhat misleading.

WEBB, C.C.J.
 God and Personality. Gifford Lectures, 1918-19. Geo. Allen
   and Unwin.

WOODBRIDGE, F.J.E.
 The Purpose of History. Reflections on Bergson, Dewey and
   Santayana. 1916. Columbia University Press.


Section III. English and American Articles

(a) Signed Articles

ABBOTT.
"Philosophy of Progress." Outlook, Feb, 1913.

AKELY.
"Bergson and Science." Philosophical Review, May, 1915.

ALEXANDER, H.B.
"Socratic Bergson." Mid-West Quarterly, Oct., 1913.

ALEXANDER, S.
"Matire et Mmoire." Mind, Oct, 1897.

ARMSTRONG.
"Bergson, Berkeley and Intuition." Philosophical Review, 1914.

BABBITT.
"Bergson and Rousseau." Nation, Nov., 1912.

BALDWIN.
"Intuition." American Year Book, 1911.

BALFOUR.
"Creative Evolution and Philosophic Doubt." Hibbert Journal,
Oct, 1911; and Living Age, Dec. 2, 1911.

BALSILLIE.
"Bergson on Time and Free Will." Mind, 1911.

BARR.
"The Dualism of Bergson." Philosophical Review, 1914.

BEYER.
"Creative Evolution and the Woman's Question." Educational
Review, Jan, 1914.

BJORKMAN.
"The Philosopher of Actuality." Forum, Sept, 1911.
"Is there Anything New?" Forum.
"Bergson: Philosopher or Prophet?" Review of Reviews,
Aug, 1911.

BLACKLOCK.
"Bergson's Creative Evolution." Westminster Review, Mar., 1912.

BODE
"L'Evolution creatrice." Philosophical Review, 1908.
"Creative Evolution." American Journal of Psychology, April, 1912.

BOSANQUET.
Prediction of Human Conduct." International Journal of
Ethics, Oct, 1910.

BOYD.
"L'Evolution cratrice." Review of Theology and Philosophy, Oct, 1907.

BROWN.
"Philosophy of Bergson." Church Quarterly Revtew, April, 1912.

BURNS.
"Criticism of Bergson's Philosophy." North American Review, March, 1913.

BURROUGHS.
"The Prophet of the Soul." Atlantic Monthly, Jan., 1914.

BUSH.
"Bergson's Lectures." Columbia University Quarterly, 1913.

CALKINS.
"Bergson: Personalist." Philosophieal Review, 1912-13. No. (6).

CARR
"Philosophy of Bergson" Hibbert Journal, July, 1910.
"Creative Evolution" Proc. Aristotelian Soc, Vol. 9 and 10.
"Bergson's Theory of Instinct" Proc. Aristotelian Soc, Vol 10.
"Bergson's Theory of Knowledge." Proc. Aristotelian Soc, Vol 9
"Psycho-physical Parallelism as a working hypothesis in Psychology."
  Proc. Aristotelian Soc, Vol. 1910-11.
"The Philosophy of Bergson." Mind, Oct, 1911.
"Science and Bergson" Mind, Oct, 1912.
"On Mr Russell's Reasons for supposing that Bergson's Philosophy
  is not true" Cambridge Magazine, April, 1913.
"The Concept of Mind-Energy." Mind, Jan., 1920.

CARUS.
"The Anti-intellectual movement of to-day." Monist, July, 1912.

COCKERELL.
"The New Voice in Philosophy." Dial, Oct., 1911.

COOKE.
"Ethics and New Intuitionists." Mind, 1913.

CORRANCE.
"Bergson and the Idea of God." Hibbert Journal, Feb, 1914.

CORY.
"Bergson's Intellect and Matter." Philosophical Review, May, 1914.
"Answer to Mr. Bertrand Russell's Philosophy of Bergson."
  Monist, Jan, 1914.

COSTELLOE (Mrs. ADRIAN STEPHEN).
"What Bergson means by Inter-penetration" Proc. Aristotelian
  Soc, Vol. 1913-14.
"Complexity and Synthesis: Data and Methods of Russell and
  Bergson. Proc. Aristotelian Soc., 1914-15.

COX.
"Bergson's Message to Feminism." Forum, May, 1913.

CUNNINGHAM.
"Bergson's Conception of Duration." Philosophical Review, 1914-15.
"Bergson's Conception of Finality." Philosophical Review, 1914-15.

DIMNET.
"Meaning of Bergson's Success." Saturday Review, 1914.

DOLSON.
"Philosophy of Bergson." I. Philosophical Review, Nov., 1910.
"Philosophy of Bergson." II. Philosophical Review, Jan., 1911.

DOUGLAS.
"Christ and Bergson." North American Review, April, 1913.

DUBRAY.
"Philosophy of Bergson." Bulletin of Catholic University of
  Washington, April, 1914.

DURBAN.
"Philosophy of Bergson. Homiletic Review, Jan., 1912.

EWALD.
"Philosophy in Germany in 1911." Trans. from German by
  Hammond. Philosophieal Review, Sept., 1912.

FAWCETT.
"Matter and Memory." Mind, April, 1912.

FERRAR.
"L'Evolution cratrice." Commonwealth, Dec., 1909.

FOSTER.
"Henri Bergson." Overland, April, 1918.

GARDINER.
"Memoire et Reconnaissance." Psychological Review, 1896.

GERRARD.
"Bergson's Philosophy of Change." Catholic World, Jan, 1913.
"Bergson, Newman and Aquinas." Catholic World, Mar., 1913.
"Bergson and Freedom." Catholic World, May, 1913.
"Bergson and Finahsm." Catholic World, June, 1913.
"Bergson and Divine Fecundity." Catholic World, Aug., 1913.

GIBSON.
"The Intuitiomsm of Bergson." The Quest, Jan., 1911,

GOETZ.
"Bergson," A poem. Open Court, Sept., 1912.

GOULD.
"Balfour and Bergson." Literary Guide and Rationalist Review,
  Nov., 1911.

GUNTHER.
"Bergson, Pragmatism and Schopenhauer." Monist, Vol. 22.

HICKS.
"Recent Bergson Literature." Hibbert Journal, Jan., 1911.
   "      "         "           "        "     "    1912.

HOCKING.
"Significance of Bergson" Yale Review, 1914.

HOOKHAM.
"Bergson as Critic of Darwin." National Review, Mar, 1912.
"Further Notes on Bergson." National Review, April, 1912.

HULME.
"The New Philosophy." New Age, July, 1909.

HUNEKER.
"The Playboy of Western Philosophy." Forum, March,

HUSBAND.
"L'Evolution creatrice." International Journal of Ethics, July, 1912.

JAMES.
"Philosophy of Bergson." Hibbert Journal, April, 1909.
"Bradley or Bergson?" Journal of Philosophy, Psychology,
  and Scientific Methods, Jan, 1910.
"A Great French Philosopher at Harvard." Nation (U. S), March, 1910.

JOHNSTON.
"Where Bergson Stands." Harper's Weekly, March, 1913.

JOHNSTONE.
"Bergson's Philosophy of the Organism." Proc. of Liverpool
  Biological Society, 1913.

JORDAN.
"Kant and Bergson." Monist, 1913.

JOURDAIN.
"Logic, Bergson and H. G. Wells." Hibbert Journal, Vol. 10.

KALLEN.
"James, Bergson and Mr Pitkin." Journal of Philosophy,
  Psychology and Scientific Methods, June, 1910.
"James, Bergson and Traditional Metaphysics" Mind, 1914.
"Laughter" Journal of Philosophy, Psychology and Scientific
  Methods, May, 1912.

KEEFFE.
"Bergson's Critical Philosophy." Irish Theological Studies, April, 1913.

KHOROSHKO.
"Bergson's Philosophy from a Physician's Point of View."
  Russkaya Misl., Feb, 1915.

LALANDE.
"Philosophy in France in 1905." Philosophieal Rev., May, 1906.
"Philosophy in France in 1907." Philosophieal Rev., May, 1908.
"Philosophy in France in 1912." Philosophieal Rev., April, 1914.

LEIGHTON
"On Continuity and Discreteness." Journal of Philosophy,
  Psychology and Scientific Methods, April, 1910.

LEWIS.
"Bergson and Contemporary Thought." University of California
  Chronicle, 1914.

LICORISH
"Bergson's Creative Evolution and the Nervous System
  in Organic Evolution" Lancet, Vol. 182.

LIPPMANN
"The most Dangerous Man in the World." Everybody's Magazine,
  July, 1912.
"Bergson's Philosophy" New York Times Book Review, Nov, 1912.

LODGE
"Bergson's Intuitional Philosophy Justified." Current Literature,
  April, 1912.
"Balfour and Bergson" Hibbert Journal, Jan., 1912.

LOVEDAY.
"L'Evolution creatrice" Mind, 1908.

LOVEJOY.
"The Metaphysician of the Life Force" Nation, Sept, 1909
"The Problem of Time in Recent French Philosophy, (III).
  Bergson s Temporalism and Anti-intellectualism" Philosophical
  Review, May, 1912
"Practical Tendencies of Bergsonism" International Journal of
  Ethics, 1913
"Some Antecedents of Bergson's Philosophy" Mind, 1913.
"Bergson and Romantic Evolutionism." University of California
  Chronicle, 1914.

LOW.
"Mr Balfour in the Study." Edinburgh Review, Oct, 1912.

MARTIN.
"Bergson's Creative Evolution" Pnnceton Theological Review, Jan., 1912.

MASON.
"Bergson's Principle" Nation, July, 1911.
"Bergson's Method Confirmed" North American Review, Jan, 1913.

McCABE.
"The Anti rationalism of Bergson." Literary Guide and
  Rationalist Review, Oct 4-1911.

MACASKILL.
"Intellect and Intuition" Footnote to "Bergson and Bradley."
  Contemporary Review, July, 1915.

MACDONALD
"L'Effort itellectuel" Philosophical Review, July, 1902.

McGILVARY.
"Philosophy of Bergson" Philosophical Review, Sept, 1912.

MACKINTOSH.
"Bergson and Religion" Biblical World, Jan, 1913

MEREDITH.
"Critical Side of Bergson's Philosophy." Westminster Review,
  Feb, 1912.

MILLER.
"Bergson and Religion." Biblical World, Nov., 1915.

MITCHELL.
"L'Evolution creatrice" Journal of Philosophy, Psychology and
  Scientific Methods, Oct, 1908.
"Studies on Bergson." Bulletin of University of Kansas, 1915.

MOORE. A. W.
"Bergson and Pragmatism." Philosophical Review, 1912.

MOORE, C. L
"Return of the Gods." The Dial, Nov, 1912.

MORIES.
"Bergson and Mysticism" Westminster Review, June, 1912.

MORRISON.
"The Treatment of History by Philosophers."
  Proc Aristotelian Soc, Vol. 1913-14.

MUIRHEAD.
"Creative Evolution" Hibbert Journal, 1911.
"Matter and Memory" Hibbert Journal, 1911.
"Time and Free Will." Hibbert Journal, 1911.

MULFORD.
"What is Intuition ?" Monist, Vol. 26, 1916.

OVERSTREET.
"Mind and Body." Psychological Bulletin, Jan., 1912.

PALMER.
"Thought and Instinct" Nation, June, 1909
"Life and the Brain" Contemporary Review, Oct, 1909.
"Presence and Omni-presence." Contemporary Review, June, 1908

PAULHAN.
"Contemporary Philosophy in France." Philosophical Review, Jan, 1900.

PERRY.
"Philosophy of Bergson." Journal of Philosophy, Psychology and
  Scientific Methods, 1911.

PITKIN
"James and Bergson, or, Who is against Intellect ?" Journal
  of Philosophy, Psychology and Scientific Methods, April, 1910

POULTON.
"Darwin and Bergson on Evolution." Bedrock, April, 1912.

QUICK
"Creative Evolution and the Individual." Mind, 1913.

RADHAKRISHNAN.
"Bergson's Idea of God" Quest, Oct, 1916.
"Bergson and Absolute Idealism 1." Mind, Jan, 1919.
"Bergson and Absolute Idealism 2." Mind, July, 1919.

ROBINSON
"The Philosophy of Bergson." Churchman, March, 1912.

ROSS
"A New Theory of Laughter" Nation, Nov, 1908.
"The Philosophy of Vitalism" Nation, March, 1909.

ROOSEVELT.
"The Search for Truth in a Reverent Spirit." Outlook, Dec, 1911.

ROYCE.
"The Reality of the Temporal" International Journal of Ethics,
  April, 1910.

RUSSELL, B.
"Philosophy of Bergson." Monist, July, 1912.
"Mr Carr's Defence of Bergson." Cambridge Magazine, April, 1913.

RUSSELL, J. E.
"Bergson's Anti-Intellectualism." Journal of Philosophy,
  Psychology and Scientific Methods, 1912.

SANBORN.
"Bergson: His Personality, Philosophy and Influence."
  Century Review, Dec, 1912.
"Bergson; Creator of a New Philosophy." Outlook, Feb, 1913.

SAUVAGE.
"The New Philosophy in France" Catholic University Bulletin,
  Washington, April, 1906, and March, 1908.

SCOTT
"Pessimism of Bergson" Hibbert Journal, Oct, 1912;
  International Journal of Ethics, Jan, 1914; Mind, July, 1913.

SHEPHERD.
"Le Souvenir du present et la fausse reconnaissance."
  Psychological Bulletin, Sept., 1910.

SHIMER.
"Bergson's View of Organic Evolution." Popular Science
  Monthly Feb., 1913.

SHOTWELL
"Bergson's Philosophy." Political Science Quarterly, March, 1913.

SLATER.
"Vision of Bergson." Forum, Dec., 1914.

SLOSSON.
"Major Prophets of To-day" Independent, June, 1911.
"Recent Developments of Bergson's Philosophy." Independent, June, 1913.

SMITH
"Subjectivism and Realism in Modern Philosophy."
  Philosophical Review, April, 1908.

SOLOMON.
"Bergson's Philosophy." Mind, Jan, 1911, also Fortnightly
  Review, Dec, 1911
"Creative Evolution." Mind, July, 1911.

STEBBING.
"Notion of Truth in Bergson's Theory of Knowledge." Proc.
  Aristotelian Soc, Vol 1912-13.

STORK.
"Bergson and his Philosophy." Lutheran Quarterly, 1913.

STOUT.
"Free Will and Determinism." Speaker, May, 1890.

STRANGE.
"Bergson's Theory of Intuition." Monist, 1915.

SYMONS
"Bergson's Theory of Intellect and Reality." Scientific
  American Supplement, Dec, 1916.

TAYLOR.
"Henri Bergson." Quest, 1912.

TAYLOR, A.E.
"Matter and Memory." International Journal of Ethics, Oct., 1911.
"Creative Evolution." International Journal of Ethics, July, 1912.

THOMSON
"Biological Philosophy of Bergson." Nature, Oct., 1911.

TITCHENER.
"Laughter." American Journal of Psychology, Jan., 1912.

TOWNSEND.
"Bergson and Religion." Monist, July, 1912.

TUFTS.
"Humor." Psychological Review, 1901.

TUTTLE
"Bergson on Life and Consciousness." Philosophical Review, Jan., 1912.

TYRRELL, G.
"Creative Evolution." Hibbert Journal, Jan., 1908.

TYRRELL, H.
"Bergson." A Poem. Art World, Sept., 1917.

UNDERHILL
"Bergson and the Mystics." Living Age, March, 1912, and
  English Review, Feb., 1912.

WATERLOW.
"Philosophy of Bergson." Quarterly Review, Jan., 1912.

WHITE.
"Bergson and Education." Educational Review, May, 1914.

WHITTAKER, A.L.
"Bergson: First Aid to Common-sense." Forum, March, 1914.

WHITTAKER, T.
"Les donnees immediates de la conscience." Mind, April, 1890.

WILLCOX.
"Impressions of M. Bergson." Harper's Weekly, March, 1913.
"Implications of Bergson's Philosophy." North American
  Review, March, 1914.

WILLIAMS.
"Syndicalism in France and Its Relation to the Philosophy of
  Bergson." Hibbert Journal, Feb., 1914.

WILM
"Bergson and Philosophy of Religion" Biblical World, Nov., 1913.

WOLF.
"Natural Realism and Present Tendencies in Philosophy"
  Proc Aristotelian Soc, Vol, 1908-9.
"Philosophy of Bergson." Jewish Review, Sept, 1911.

WOLFF.
"Balfour on Teleology and Bergson's Creative Evolution."
  Hibbert Journal, Jan, 1912.

WYANT
"Bergson and His Philosophy." Bookman, March, 1915.


(b) Unsigned Articles

1909 Sept. "Creative Evolution." Nation.
1909 Dec.  "Creative Evolution." Current Literature.
1909 Dec.  "Bergson's New Idea" Current Literature.

1910 Sept. "Bergson on Free Will" Spectator.
1910 Oct.  "Time and Free Will." Athenaeum.
1910 Oct.  "Time and Free Will." Saturday Review.
1910 Nov.  "Time and Free Will." Nation (USA)

1911 April "Creative Evolution" Athenaeum
1911 May   "Bergson's Wonder-working Philosophy." Current Literature.
           "Bergson and Others" Spectator.
1911 June  "Creative Evolution" Saturday Review.
1911 June  "Bergson in English" Nation.
1911 Aug.  "Latest of Philosophers" New York Times.
1911 Aug.  "New Conception of God as Creative Evolution."
            Current Literature
1911 Oct.  "Creative Evolution" Bookman.
1911 Oct.  "Creative Evolution" Dial.
1911 Oct.  "Creative Evolution" Nature.
1911 Oct.  "Matter and Memory." International Journal of Ethics.
1911 Dec.  "Balfour's Objections to Bergson's Philosophy."
            Current Literature.

1912 Jan.  "Bergson and Balfour discuss Philosophy." Review
            of Reviews.
1912 Jan.  "The Soul" Educational Review
1912 Feb.  "Is the Philosophy of Bergson that of a Charlatan?"
            Current Literature
1912 Feb.  "Bergson on Comedy" Living Age
1912 Aprl "Bergson's Intuitional Philosophy justified by Sir
            Oliver Lodge." Current Literature.
1912 Aprl "Laughter" Edinburgh Review
1912 Aprl "Bergson Criticized." London Quarterly Review
1912 June  "Laughter." North American Review.
           "Modern Science and Bergson." Contemporary Review.
     July  "Creative Evolution." International Journal of Ethics.
           "Pressing Forward into Space." Nation.
           "Balfour and Bergson." Westminster Review.
     Sept. "Prof. Henri Bergson." Open Court.
           "Laughter." Dublin Review.

1913 Feb.  "Eucken and Bergson." Independent.
           "Bergson's Lectures." Outlook.
     March "Bergson's New Idea of Evolution." Literary Digest.
           "Bergson's Reception in America." Current Opinion.
           "Visiting the French Philosopher." Literary Digest.
           "The Jewishness of Bergson." Literary Digest.
           "Bergson at the City College." Outlook.
1913 March "The Spiritual Philosopher." Review of Reviews.
     April "Introduction to Metaphysics." Contemporary Review.
           "Bergson and Eucken under Fire." Current Opinion.
     Oct.  "Such Stuff as Dreams are Made On." Independent.
           "The Birth of a Dream." Independent.
           "Bergson on Psychical Research." Educational Review.

1914 March "Portrait of Bergson." American Magazine.
     May   "Threatened Collapse of Bergson boom in France."
            Current Opinion.
     July  "The Banning of Bergson." Independent.
     Dec.  "Bergson Looking Backward." Literary Digest.
           "Bergson on Germany's Moral Force." Literary Digest.

1915 Jan.  "Mr. Kallen on Bergson." North American Review.
     April     "  "  "                  Nation.
           "Mr. Wildon Carr and Philosophy of Change." Quest.
1917 May   "Bergson and the Art World." Art World.
     Sept. "Are Americans Money Worshippers? Bergson's Opinion."
            Outlook.
     Dec.  "Bergson thanks America." New Republic.

1919 Dec.  "French Ideals in Education and the American Student."
            Living Age.



Section IV. The English Translations of Bergson's Works

As, in the foregoing lists, the English Translations of Bergson's
Works are given separately under the heading of the date and title
of the original work, they are here set forth together under the title
of the publishers with translators' names and the published prices
for convenience of reference for English readers or students.

GEORGE ALLEN AND UNWIN, LTD.
  Time and Free Will. Translator--F. L. Pogson, M.A. Pp.
    xxiii+252 (12/6).

  Matter and Memory. Translators--Nancy Margaret Paul and
    W. Scott Palmer. Pp. xx+339 (12/6).

  Both of these are in "The Library of Philosophy."

MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD.
  Creative Evolution. Translator--Arthur Mitchell, Ph.D. Pp.
    xv+407 (12/6).

  Laughter: An Essay on the Meaning of the Comic, Translators--
    Cloudesley Brereton L.-es-L., M.A., and Fred Rothwell, B.A.
    Pp. vi+200 (4/6).

  An Introduction to Metaphysics. Translator--T. E. Hulme.
    Pp. vi+79 (3/e).

  Mind-Energy. Translator. Dr. Wildon Carr. (Announced.)

T. FISHER UNWIN, LTD.
  Dreams. Translator--Dr. Slosson. Pp. 62 (2/6).

  The Meaning of the War. Editor, Dr. Carr. Pp. 47 (1/6).

The above are all the English Translations which have appeared
up to now. The Oxford University Press published in the original
French the lectures given at Oxford, La Perception du Changement.
These are now out of print, but will be included in the
forthcoming volume of Essays.








This eBook was produced by Bruce Loving 






BOOK OF ETIQUETTE

BY LILLIAN EICHLER

VOLUME II

ILLUSTRATED


COPYRIGHT, 1921



CONTENTS

PART III


I.  SERVANTS

The Servant in the Household
A Word to the Mistress
A Word to the Servant
How to Address Servants
The Child and the Servant
The Invisible Barrier
When the Servant Speaks
The Servants of a Big House
The Butler
Correct Dress for the Butler
The Second Man
The Chauffeur
Duties of the Chauffeur
The Valet
The Page
The Maid-Servants
Lady's Maid
The Nurse-Maid
Duties of House-Maid
In Conclusion.


II.  DINNERS

About the American Hostess
Planning the Formal Dinner
Arranging the Table
Starting at the Center
Some Important Details
Table Etiquette
Table Service
Use of the Napkin
The Spoon at the Dinner Table
The Fork and Knife
Finger Foods
Table Accidents
The Hostess
When the Guests Arrive
The Successful Hostess
The Guest
Comments on Food
Second Helpings
The Menu
Special Entertainment
When to Leave
Taking Leave
Inviting a Stop-Gap
Simple Dinners
Inviting Congenial Guests
When There are no Servants
Hotel Dinners
Dress for Dinner


III.  LUNCHEONS

Purpose of the Luncheon
Informal Luncheons
About the Table
The Formal Luncheon
The Table for the Formal Luncheon
Hostess and Guest
Formal and Informal Breakfasts
Dress for Luncheons and Breakfasts


IV.  TEAS AND OTHER ENTERTAINMENTS

Evolution of the Afternoon Tea
The Simpler Tea
The Formal Tea
The Tea Table
Dress at Tea Time
The Garden Party
Receiving the Guests
On the Lawn
Dress for Garden Parties and Lawn Festivals
Woman's Garden Costume
The Man at the Garden Party
House Parties
Sending the Invitation
When the Guests Arrive
Entertaining at the House Party
Hostess and Guests at the House Party
"Tipping" the Servants


V.  WHEN THE BACHELOR ENTERTAINS

When the Bachelor is Host
Welcoming the Guests
The Bachelor's Dinner
Tea at a Bachelor Apartment
The Bachelor Dance
Theater Parties
Yachting Parties


VI.  MUSICALES AND PRIVATE THEATRICALS

Preparations for the Musicale
The Afternoon Musicale
The Evening Musicale
Card Parties at the Musicale
Duties of Guests at Musicales
Dress at the Musicale
Arranging Private Theatricals
The Players
The Guests
Host and Hostess


VII.  DANCING

Dancing as a Healthful Art
Dance-Giving No Longer a Luxury
The Debut Dance
Costume Balls
Subscription Dances
The Ballroom
Music at the Dance
Dance Programs
Dinner Dances
Dressing Rooms
The Dance
When the Lady is Asked to Dance
"Cutting In"
Dancing Positions
When the Guest Does Not Dance
Public Dances
A Plea for Dancing
The Charm of Dress in Dancing
At the Afternoon Dance
Gentlemen at the Dance
Dress for the Ball
Dress of the Debutante
Wraps at the Ball
Ball Dress for Men
For the Simple Country Dance


VIII.  GAMES AND SPORTS

Why the World Plays
Fair Play
Indoor Games
Chess
Bridge
Billiards and Croquet
Outdoor Games
Lawn Tennis
Golf
Some Important Rules about Golf
Football
Automobile Etiquette
Automobile Parties
Riding
Bathing
Sports
Clothes in General



PART IV


I.  SPEECH

Conversation
The Charm of Correct Speech
Courtesy in Conversation
The Voice
Ease in Speech
Local Phrases and Mannerisms
Importance of Vocabulary
Interrupting the Speech of Others
Tact in Conversation
Some Important Information
What to Talk About


II.  DRESS

The First Impression
Men's Dress
Women's Dress
The Story of Dress
The Dawn of Fashion
The Fashions of To-day
Harmony in Dress
Importance of Color
The Charm of Personality
Gaudiness versus Good Taste
"Extravagance the Greatest Vulgarity"
Inappropriateness in Clothes
The Eccentric Dresser
Comfort in Clothes
If One is Not Average
Tall and Short People
The Well-Dressed Woman
Not a Slave to Fashion
The Well-Dressed Man
The Charm of Old Age
The Elderly Woman
Imitation and Over-Dressing
The Older Gentleman
A Trip to the South
For the Gentleman


III.  THE BUSINESS WOMAN

Woman in the Business World
Self-Confidence
The Slattern
Following the Fashions
Gaudy Attraction
The Business Suit
The Business Dress and Coat
An Appeal to Business Women


IV.  ON THE STREET

The True Etiquette
Poise in Public
The Charm of Courtesy
Ladies and Gentlemen
When to Bow in Public
Walking in Public
Stopping for a Chat
When Accidents Happen
Accepting Courtesies from Strangers
Raising the Hat
How to Raise the Hat
In the Street Car
Entering the Car
In the Taxicab
Some Social Errors


V.  AT THE THEATER AND THE OPERA

Dress at the Theater and Opera
Entering the Theater
Arriving Late
About Wraps
Order of Precedence
Before the Play
When the Curtain is Drawn
During the Performance
The Offending Hat
Applause
During Intermission
Leaving the Theater


VI.  HOTEL ETIQUETTE

At the Hotel
The Woman Guest
Receiving Masculine Guests
Making Friends at the Hotel
How to Register
In the Public Dining-Room
Hotel Stationery
Regarding the Servants
Leaving the Hotel


VII.  TRAVEL ETIQUETTE

The Restless Urge of Travel
The Customs of Countries
The Traveler's Wardrobe
In the Train
In the Sleeping Car
Train Courtesy
The Woman Traveler
The Woman who Travels with an Escort
In the Dining-Car
Children on the Train
In the Taxicab
Bon Voyage Gifts
On Board the Ship
Courtesy of the Ship
The Woman Crossing the Ocean
A Concert at Sea
At the Journey's End
At Hotel and Restaurant
At Tea-Room and Roof-Garden
To Those Who Love to Travel


VIII.  TIPPING

An Un-American Custom
Lavish Tipping
In Dining-Room or Dining-Car
At the Hotel
The Taxi-Driver
On the Train
Crossing the Ocean
Tips in Foreign Countries


IX.  ETIQUETTE ABROAD

The American in Foreign Countries
On English Soil
Addressing Royalty
Other English Titles
-And Still Other Titles
Addressing Clergy Abroad
Lawyers, Statesmen and Officials-How to Address Them
At the Court of England
What to Wear to Court
The King's Levees
In France
Addressing Titled People in France
Certain French Conventions
Dinner Etiquette
French Wedding Etiquette
Balls
About Calls and Cards
Correspondence
The American in Germany
The Perfect American Tourist


APPENDIX Foreign Words in Frequent Social Usage


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

READY FOR TEA  Frontspiece Page
TABLE SET FOR DINER
THE PUNCH TABLE
THE BUFFET LUNCH




PART III

Repose and cheerfulness are the badge of the gentleman--repose in energy.
The Greek battle pieces are calm; the heroes, in whatever violent actions
engaged, retain a serene aspect; as we say of Niagara, that it falls
without speed.  A cheerful, intelligent face is the end of culture, and
success enough.  For it indicates the purpose of nature and wisdom
attained.  --Emerson



 CHAPTER I

 SERVANTS

 THE SERVANT IN THE HOUSEHOLD

"A mouse can look at a king, but a king won't often look at a mouse" says
the old proverb.  Which is, sadly enough, the state of affairs between
servants and mistresses in many households.

A great many people feel somehow that those who labor in the capacity of
servants are inferior.  But in most cases, it is those who place servants
on a lower plane who are themselves inferior.  We owe those who take a
part in the household affairs of our homes, more than the wages we pay
them.  We owe them gratitude, courtesy, kindness.  Many elaborate dinners
would be failures if it were not for the silent members of our
households. Many formal entertainments would be impossible without their
help. They hold a certain place of importance in the home and it should
be recognized in the social world as a place worthy of every courtesy and
respect.

For those who are fortunate enough to have servants to help with domestic
tasks, it is extremely important that the correct etiquette of servants
be thoroughly known and understood.  And those who serve as butlers and
maids and valets must also know the little rules of good conduct that
govern their duties and responsibilities.  The information contained in
the following paragraphs is meant for both the servant and the mistress,
and we hope that both will find it valuable.


 A WORD TO THE MISTRESS

In the home where guests are frequently entertained and where the hostess
holds many formal social functions, servants are essential.

Every family that can afford to do so, should have one, or two, or more
servants according to social requirements and the appointments of the
house.  They should be well instructed in their duties and they should be
expected to carry them out faultlessly.  Untidy, noisy, ill-trained
servants reflect upon the manners and conduct of the mistress herself.

The most common method of engaging a servant is through an agency.  Here
different types of men and women can be found, and the mistress of the
household may be fortunate enough to find one suited to her requirements.
Sometimes she secures a maid or butler by the recommendation of some
other housekeeper.  This method is usually more satisfactory than any
other because it puts things on a rather friendly basis from the start.

But whether the maid or butler be engaged by recommendation or through an
agency, it is important that it be clearly understood from the beginning
just what his or her duties will be.  And the mistress should not engage
a servant unless she feels sure that be will be able to fill the position
satisfactorily, for it is both an expensive and provoking process to
change servants frequently.

The first few days in a new home are always difficult for the servant.
The mistress should be patient and considerate and do all she can to make
the newcomer feel at ease in her new surroundings.  Her directions should
be requests, not commands, and she should overlook blunders for they may
be the result of the servant's unfamiliarity with the household and its
customs.

After the servant has been in the household three weeks or a month, the
mistress has every right to expect him to carry out his duties correctly.
But we are all human, and we all make mistakes.  When a servant blunders
through carelessness a reprimand may be necessary, but to scold in loud,
angry tones is most ill-mannered.  The well-bred woman will never forget
that there is as much demand for courtesy and kindliness in her relations
with her servants as in any other relation in which she is placed.  There
is absolutely no reason why "please" and "thank you" should be omitted
when we speak to the people who live in our homes and labor for our
comfort and happiness.


 A WORD TO THE SERVANT

Among real Americans, with their democratic views, there can be no
objection to the word "servant." It is a noun, a name, to denote people
in a certain occupation; just as "brokers" and "salesmen" and
"housewives" denote certain people in other occupations.  Therefore the
servants who read these sentences, and the women who have servants in
their households, should interpret the word in the spirit it is written,
that of true American courtesy and respect.

Domestic service requires a certain character lacking in most other
professions.  As a servant, you care for the things of others and it
should be done with as much attention and regard as if they were your
own.  You attend to your duties day after day, persisting in work which
may sometimes become monotonous and which would be easy enough to shirk,
but which you do for the comfort and pleasure of your mistress.  You find
yourself in the position of keeping other people's property attractive,
putting other people's visitors at ease and being economical with other
people's money.  And we repeat again that it requires a certain high
stamp of character that is not found in most professions.

Tidiness is very important in both men and women servants.  The maid who
serves at the dinner table must wear a. fresh new blouse and a crisp
apron.  Soiled finger-nails or unclean hands are inexcusable.  The
well-trained servant presents always an immaculate, well-groomed
appearance.

It hardly seems necessary to mention that the servant must be
scrupulously honest.  Perhaps, in their capacity in the home, they are
exposed to unusual temptations, but that is just the reason why they
should refrain from dishonesty of any kind, even the slightest lie.
Gossip about the family life of the people they are serving should also
be avoided by servants.

The servant should remember that whether she be maid or mistress, she can
be _cultured_.  The well-bred, well-trained maid is never sullen or
perverse.  Nor is her manner servile or haughty.  She is respectful to
her employers, but she does not cringe.  She does her duties carefully,
conscientiously and thoroughly, and she carries out the commands of her
mistress without question.  If, however, a maid thinks that a certain
task could be done much more quickly and satisfactorily in another way,
she may suggest it to her mistress and request her permission to do it in
that way.  If she is reprimanded for a mistake, she should not become
rude or angry, but remain calm and answer quietly.  It will not be long
before her mistress, if she is the right sort of mistress, recognizes her
superior qualities, her good manners and conscientious work, and will
respond by treating her in like manner.

Undue familiarity from the maid is not to be countenanced.  But many
times a certain understanding friendliness develops between a "faithful
maid and a kind and courteous mistress."  a friendship in which rigid
class distinctions are not sufficient to form a barrier.

Let those of us who are servants remember that it is only in helping
others that true happiness is found, and that the world is quick to
recognize and reward true, loyal, sincere service.


 HOW TO ADDRESS SERVANTS

Household servants are usually addressed by their first names. It is
indeed bad form to address a servant by some abbreviated nickname, such
as Lizzy for Elizabeth or Maggie for Margaret. The full first name should
be used.  A pleasant "Good morning, Margaret," starts the day right, both
for the mistress and the maid.  In England the surname is preferred but
they do not have to contend with all the foreign importations in the way
of names that we have here in America.  It is certainly better to call
John Soennichsen John, than to use his surname.

A butler or chauffeur is usually addressed by his surname unless he is a
man who has served the family for many years.

The golden rule of "Thank you" is just as golden when it applies to our
servants.  It is only the extremely discourteous man or woman who will
address servants in a peremptory, rude tone.  And it is especially
ill-bred and unkind to be overbearing to servants in the presence of
guests, or to scold one servant in the presence of another.


 THE CHILD AND THE SERVANT

Insolence to servants on the part of children is as much a reflection on
the manners of the parents, as it is upon the breeding of the children.
The child that hears the servants addressed in rude, haughty manner will
quite naturally adopt the same manner towards them.  And no one, child or
adult, can be considered well-bred unless he or she is courteous and kind
to everyone, especially to those whose social position is inferior.

In the park, recently, a little tot of six years or thereabouts had a bag
of peanuts which she offered to two little playmates and also to their
mother who was sitting near by.  Seeing that she did not offer her
governess some peanuts, the woman inquired, "Why don't you offer Miss
Taylor some?" To which the youngster immediately replied, "Oh, she's only
my governess."

This is the result of wrong principle in the home.  No child is born a
snob.  No child is born haughty and arrogant.  It is the home environment
and the precedent of the parents that makes such vain, unkind little
children as the one mentioned above.  It is actually unfair to the young
children in the home to set the wrong example by being discourteous to
the servants.  They will only have to fight, later, to conquer the petty
snobbishness that stands between them and their entrance into good
society.


 THE INVISIBLE BARRIER

In the sixteenth century French women servants were arrested and placed
in prison for wearing clothes similar to those worn by their "superiors"
It developed that they had made the garments themselves, copying them
from the original models, sometimes sitting up all night to finish the
garment.  But the court ruled that it made no difference whether they had
made them themselves or not; they had worn clothes like their
mistresses', and they must be punished! We very much wiser people of the
twentieth century smile when we read of these ridiculous edicts of a
long-ago court, but we placidly continue to condemn the shop-girl and the
working-girl if she dares to imitate Parisienne importations.

It is very often the same in the household.  We ridicule the "class
systems" of other countries, yet we deliberately build up a barrier
between ourselves and those who work for us.  Perhaps there must be some
such barrier to keep the social equilibrium; but is there any reason why
it should be unkind and discourteous?

The mistress should not, of course, confide in her servants, gossip with
them, discuss her affairs with them, enter their quarrels and take sides
with them.  But she can be cheerful, polite, considerate; and invariably
she will find that this kind of treatment will bring an immediate
response even from the most sullen servant,


 WHEN THE SERVANT SPEAKS

In answering the mistress or master of the household, it is customary for
the servant to say, "Yes, madam," or, "Yes, Sir." Old servants, who have
been for many years in the employ of the same people, may omit the
"madam" and use the name, in this manner--"Yes, Mrs.  Brown." Such
slovenly expressions as "No'm" or "Yessir" show lack of good training on
the part of the servant, and poor judgment on the part of the mistress.

Brevity and civility are the two most important virtues of the speech of
the man or maid servant who answers inquiries at the door, admits guests
and takes messages.  In the latter case, when a servant takes a message
for one of the members of the household, a polite "Thank you, madam" is
essential.  If there is a doubt as to whether or not the hostess is at
home, the well-trained servant admits the visitor, asks her to have a
seat, and says, "I will inquire."  He returns to say either that Madam
is not at home, or that she will be down directly.  When announcing
guests, the butler should ask, "What name, please?" not in the
indifferent, sing-song manner so characteristic of butlers, but in a
cordial, polite tone of voice, and with a genial smile.  Having been
given the names of the visitors, he announces them in clear, distinct
tones.  These announcements are made while the guests are entering the
drawing room.  A mother and two daughters are announced as:  "Mrs.
Smith, the Misses Smith." If the given names of the young ladies are
called, the form of announcement is: "Mrs.  Smith, Miss Smith, Miss Alice
Smith," the eldest daughter of a family being given the privilege to use
the title "Miss Smith."  In announcing a gentleman and his son, the
butler says: "Mr.  Blank, Mr.  Francis Blank."


 THE SERVANTS OF A BIG HOUSE

The small household must choose servants according to convenience and
requirements.  Where there are three or four grown-up daughters and the
home is a small one, one maid and one butler are sufficient.  But in a
very large house with numerous rooms, where many social functions are
held and many house parties are given by the hostess a full corps of
servants is required.  Each one should have certain, definite tasks to
perform every day.  In the luxurious American home, seven servants are
usually employed.  They are a butler, a chauffeur, a parlor maid, a cook,
a laundress, a nurse-maid and a chambermaid.  A lady's maid and a valet
are sometimes added. A footman, laundry-maid and scullery-maid are also
added, sometimes, to the corps of servants.  But this list may be
increased or diminished according to the requirements of the individual
family.  For instance, a second-man may be placed underthe direction of
the butler; a gardener and his assistants may be charged with the care of
the environs; while grooms may be employed to care for the horses in the
stables.  But usually these additional servants are the luxuries of the
extremely wealthy and should hot be indulged in by those who cannot
afford them.  In the home where there are several men servants and
several women servants, it is the best plan for the wife to supervise the
duties and responsibilities of the women, leaving the men to be directed
by her husband.  It is important, though, for the mistress of the house
not to give counter commands to servants who are under her husband's
supervision, for this may cause a friction that is not conducive to the
best service on the part of the help.


 THE BUTLER

The duties of the butler confine him to the drawing-room and dining-room.
The dining-room, however, is his particular domain; he sees that
everything is in order, that the table is laid correctly, the lighting
effect satisfactory, the flowers arranged, and in short that the room and
appointments are in perfect readiness for a punctual meal.  In this work
a parlor maid assists him by sweeping and dusting, and a pantry-maid
helps him by keeping everything immaculate and in readiness in the
pantry.  The butler serves at breakfast, luncheon and dinner.

 Where there is a second-man, he may assist the butler with the serving
at dinner; and at large entertainments the maid who assists in the pantry
may also be requested to serve.  The butler also is in charge of the
afternoon-tea duties, in homes where this custom prevails.  He brings in
the tray, arranges it for the hostess and sees that everyone is served.
Where there are only a few servants, the butler may be expected to help
with the dishes, polish the silver and assist in the pantry.  But if
there are maid servants, and a second-man to do the heavier work, then he
is expected to serve in a small measure as the valet for the master of
the house.  He lays out his evening clothes, brushes and presses the
garments worn in the morning, and draws his bath.  Sometimes, when his
domestic duties are very light, the butler is requested to serve as
footman to the mistress when she goes riding in the afternoon.  An
important duty of the butler is to answer the door bell whenever it
rings. He must see that the front door and the hall is in order and
well-swept, and that the drawing-room door is locked every night after
the family has retired.  A great deal of the comfort and pleasure of the
family depends upon the manner in which the butler attends to his duties.


 CORRECT DRESS FOR THE BUTLER

Neatness of attire is extremely important.  The butler should be
clean-shaven, and he should not fail to be fresh-shaven every day.  His
hair should not be closely cropped, but cut loosely, and it should be
well-brushed at all times.  Well-kept nails are, of course, very
important not only for the butler but for anyone who serves at the table
or has anything to do with the food.  As nearly as possible, the butler's
costume should parallel the following description, but each passing
season finds some minor detail slightly changed, and each new season
finds a slight variation from the costume of the season before.  So the
best thing to do is to find out definitely from a reliable clothier or
from the men's furnishing department of a large department store, just
what the butler's costume of the present time consists of.  Ordinarily,
the butler wears white linen in the morning, with black or dark gray
trousers, a black waistcoast that buttons high, and a swallow-tail coat.
It is also permissible for him to wear a short roundtail coat in the
morning hours; it is similar to the gentleman's tailless evening coat,
but it is not faced with silk.  A black or dark tie and black shoes
complete the outfit, which is worn until after the midday meal.  If
guests are to be entertained at luncheon, the butler wears his afternoon
and evening livery.  Otherwise he dons it only after luncheon or about
three o'clock in the afternoon. It consists of complete black evening
dress similar in cut and style to that worn by gentlemen.  There are no
braidings or facings, though the material of the suit may be every whit
as excellent in quality as that worn by the master of the house. The
butler does not wear a white waistcoat, a watch chain, or jeweled studs
with his after noon or evening livery.  Nor may he wear a boutonniere or
an assertive tie or patent leather shoes.  And it is extremely bad taste
for him to use perfume of any kind.  He wears white linen with plain
white studs in the shirt front, a standing collar, white lawn tie and
plain black shoes.  His watch is slipped into his waistcoast pocket
without chain or fob.  White gloves are no longer the custom for men
servants in the private home.  When acting as footman to his mistress in
the afternoon, the butler wears the livery described for the second man.
In cold weather he is supplied with a long footman's coat; and he is also
supplied with a top hat and gloves, all matching in color and style those
worn by the chauffeur.


 THE SECOND MAN

The second man may be employed exclusively for the house, or he may be
employed solely to serve as footman, sitting next to the chauffeur when
the mistress is motoring.  In the latter case he wears the regular livery
matching that worn by the chauffeur. But usually a second man is expected
to help in the house besides serving as footman, He assists the butler by
answering the door bell whenever the other is busy or occupied elsewhere.
He washes dishes and windows and polishes the silver.  He tends to the
open fireplace in winter, and to the arranging of the flowers in the
summer.  The veranda, front steps and courtyard are also in his care.
And when there are guests for dinner, or at a large entertainment, he
helps serve at the table.  The livery of the second man is the same
indoors all day; he does not change for the evening.  It consists of coat
and trousers of one solid color determined by the heads of the house.  It
is usually a very dark green, brown, gray or blue, and the outside edge
of the trouser leg is piped in some contrasting color.  The coat is
usually swallowtail in cut, and is ornamented with brass or silver
buttons on the tails, on the cuffs and down the front. Lately this vogue
of the brass and silver button is disappearing.  The color worn by the
second man should be the predominating color worn by all the other
liveried servants in the household.  It is certainly not good form to
have the chauffeur wear one color of livery, and the footman next to him
wear livery of an entirely different color and cut.  With his livery
described above, the second man wears a waistcoat of Valencia, striped in
the two colors that appear on the coat and trousers.  It is usually cut V
shape, disclosing white linen in which are fastened two plain white
studs, a standing collar, and a white lawn tie.  When he serves as
footman, the second man may either be requested to don complete car
livery, or he may wear a long footman's overcoat; top hat and gloves over
his house livery.  A clean shaven face and well-brushed, close-clipped
hair are pleasing characteristics of the second man.  Untidiness, ill-
kept hands and nails, and the use of jewelry or perfume should not be
tolerated in the second man, whether be serves only as footman, or in the
house.  When he helps the butler at the dinner table, he should be
especially immaculate in appearance.


 THE CHAUFFEUR

The gallant coachman of a decade ago has given way to the chauffeur of
to-day.  But we find that his livery is no less important. It is governed
by a very definite convention.  In winter, for instance, the chauffeur
wears long trousers of melton or kersey or similar material and a
double-breasted greatcoat of the same material.  The collar and cuffs may
be of a contrasting color or of the same color as the rest of the
material.  He wears a flat cap with a stiff visor and a band of the same
contrasting color that appears on the collar and cuffs of the coat.  Dark
gloves and shoes are worn.  Sometimes, instead of long trousers, the
chauffeur wears knee-trousers with leather leggings.  It desired, a
double row of brass, silver or polished horn buttons may decorate the
front of the greatcoat, but this must be determined by the prevailing
custom.  If the weather is extremely cold, the chauffeur should be
provided with a long coat of goat or wolf-skin, or some other suitable
protection against the cold and wind.  During the summer months, the
chauffeur usually wears gray or brown cords, developed in the
conventional style.  His cap and gloves match.


 DUTIES OF THE CHAUFFEUR

The complete care of the car or cars devolves upon the chauffeur.  He
must see that it is always spotless and shining, that it is in good
condition and will not break down during a trip, and that it is in
readiness whenever the owners want to use it.  When the mistress goes
motoring, the chauffeur stands at the door of the car until she enters,
arranges the robes and sees that she is comfortable before taking his own
place.  Upon receiving her orders, he touches the rim of his cap.  It is
not necessary, however, upon reaching the destination for the chauffeur
to descend and open the door for his mistress.  His place is at the wheel
and that is where he remains.  But if there is a second man to assist the
chauffeur, who accompanies him on every trip as a motor footman, he
should descend and stand at attention while the mistress emerges from the
car.  The footman dresses like the chauffeur.  He leaves cards when the
mistress makes her social calls, and he rings house bells for her.  He is
also expected to be useful in performing personal service for the
masculine members of the household.  Very often it happens that a
tourist, instead of hiring a car and chauffeur when he reaches a strange
country, desires to take his own car and chauffeur with him.  He must be
sure to arrange beforehand to have the man admitted to the foreign
country, for negligence may cause him much delay and trouble when he
reaches the borderline. He must also arrange for the sleeping and eating
facilities of his chauffeur when they stop for a day or two in a town or
village.  It is not right to expect him to eat with the servants, nor
will he wish to eat at the same table with his employer.  It is wisest to
give him an allowance and permit him to eat and sleep where he pleases.


 THE VALET

The business of the valet is to attend to all the comforts and desires of
the master of the house.  He takes no part in the general housework,
except in an emergency.  The valet does not wear livery.  Indoors, in the
evening and during the day, he wears dark gray or black trousers, white
linen, a high-buttoned black waistcoat and a plain black swallow-tailed
coat or one cut with short rounded tails.  He wears a dark tie and dull
leather shoes.  He may also wear an inconspicuous pin in his tie and
simple cuff-links; but a display of jewelry is not permissible. It may
happen that a butler is ill or called away, or that there is a shortage
of servants during a large entertainment.  In this case the valet may be
called upon to serve as a butler, and he then wears complete butler's
dress, with the long-tailed coat. When traveling with his employer, the
valet wears an inconspicuous morning suit of dark gray, brown or blue
tweed in the conventional style.  He completes this outfit with a black
or brown derby hat and black leather shoes.  The duties of the valet are
as follows: he brushes, presses, cleans, packs or lays out the clothes of
his employer, draws the water for his bath, and assists him to dress.  He
keeps his wardrobe in order and packs and un-packs his trunks whenever he
is traveling.  He does all his errands, buys his railway and steamship
tickets, pays his bills, and carries his hand-luggage when they are
traveling together.  Sometimes he shaves him, orders his clothes, and
writes his business letters.  But these duties are expected only of
accomplished valets.  He does not, however, make the bed or sweep or dust
his employer's room.


 THE PAGE

The page is a very convenient servant to have when there is no second-man
or when there are no men-servants at all.  His duties are many and
varied.  He runs errands for everyone in the house, assists the
parlor-maid, looks after the open fire places and opens the door to
callers.  Sometimes he even serves as a sort of miniature footman,
sitting next to the chauffeur in complete footman livery.  The livery for
the page boy is the same during the day and evening.  It is a simple,
neat coat and trousers of dark cloth piped with the contrasting livery
color of the family in which he serves.  The coat fits the body snugly,
and ends at the waistline except for a slight point at back and front.
Metal buttons set as closely together as possible fasten the coat from
top to bottom.  The trousers are piped or braided in the contrasting
color down the outside of the leg. White linen should show at the wrists
and above the high collar of the coat, but there should be no tie.  Black
calf skin shoes complete the outfit, and when the page is out of doors,
he wears a round cap to match his suit.  The bullet-shaped metal buttons
down the front of the coat, and three of the same buttons sewed on the
outside seam of the cuffs, have earned for the page the rather
appropriate name of "Buttons."


 THE MAID-SERVANTS

Whether there is only one maid-servant in the house, or many, their
duties should be clearly defined and understood.  It is the only way to
avoid quarreling and misunderstanding among the servants themselves.  Let
each one understand from the very first day he begins work just what his
duties are.  In this case as in many another an ounce of prevention is
worth a pound of cure.  If there are quarrels among the servants the
mistress should not interfere nor take sides.  If possible she should
remove the cause of the friction, and for a serious fault she should
discharge the one that is causing the disturbance.

The services of the waitress are confined to the drawing-room floor.  She
serves breakfast, luncheon and dinner, and afternoon tea where it is the
custom.  This is assuming, however, that there is no butler in the home.
In this case she attends to all the other duties that would ordinarily
fall upon him.  She answers the doorbell, polishes the silver, helps with
the washing of the dishes and sees that the table is correctly laid for
each meal.

The parlor maid is a luxury enjoyed only by families of great wealth.
She is expected to devote her time and attention wholly to the
drawing-room and dining-room, assisting the waitress in the pantry and
keeping the library and drawing-room in order. But in the average
comfortable home of America there are usually only two maids, a housemaid
and a waitress (with perhaps the additional services of a cook) and these
two maids have the care of the dining, living and bedrooms divided
between them.

The dress of the house-maids is very much alike.  The waitress, or parlor
maid, wears a plain, light-colored dress in the morning with a rather
large apron, and a small white cap.  The chambermaid's costume is very
much the same.  In the afternoon the parlor maid or waitress changes to a
black serge dress in winter, or a black poplin in summer, with white
linen cuffs and collars and a small white apron. [The costumes for
maid-servants change frequently, only in slight details, but enough to
warrant specific research at the time the servant is outfitted.  A large
department store, or a.  store devoted exclusively to the liveries of
servants, will be able to tell you exactly the correct costumes for
maid-servants at the present time.  Or you may find the desired
information in a current housekeeping magazine.]

The maid-servants never wear jewelry or other finery while they are on
duty.  One very simple brooch, or perhaps a pair of cuff links, is
permissible; but bracelets, rings and neck ornaments are in bad taste.
Elaborate dressing of the hair should also be avoided, and careless,
untidy dressing should never be countenanced.


 LADY'S MAID

The lady's maid does not take part in the general housework.  Her duties
are solely to care for the wardrobe of her mistress, to assist her at her
toilette, to draw her bath, to lay out her clothes and keep her room
tidy.  But she does not sweep or dust the room or make the bed--these are
the duties of the chamber-maid.  If she is an accomplished maid she will
probably do a great deal of sewing, and perhaps she will massage her
mistress' hair and manicure her nails.  But these duties are not to he
expected; the mistress who finds her maid is willing to do these things
for her, is indeed fortunate.

A black dress in winter, and a black skirt and waist in summer, worn with
a small, dainty white apron comprises the costume of the lady's maid.
Stiff white cuffs and collar add a touch of prim neatness which is most
desirable.  At the present tune, the tiny white cap formerly worn by
lady's maids has been almost entirely dispensed with.

When traveling with her mistress, the lady's maid should wear only very
simple and inconspicuous clothes.  A tweed suit worn with a neat blouse,
or a tweed coat worn over a simple dress, is the best form.  Anything
gaudy or elaborate worn by a lady's maid is frowned upon by polite
society.


 THE NURSEMAID

The nurse-maid should be very particular about her dress.  She should
always be faultlessly attired, her hair neat and well-brushed, her
entire appearance displaying a tidy cleanliness.

In the house the nurse-maid wears a simple dress of wool or heavy
material with a white apron and white collar and cuffs. In warmer weather
she wears linen or poplin with the apron and collar and cuffs.  Outdoors,
she wears a long full cloak over her house dress.


 DUTIES OF HOUSEMAID

The cook, who is always dressed spotlessly in white, does nothing outside
the kitchen unless special arrangements have been made to the contrary.
She keeps the kitchen tidy and clean, cooks the meals, helps with the
dishes and perhaps attends to the furnace.

The waitress opens and airs the living-rooms, dusts the rooms and gets
everything in readiness for breakfast.  It is customary to excuse her as
soon as the principal part of the breakfast has been served, so that she
may attend to her chamber-work and be ready to come down to her breakfast
by the time the family has finished.  However, before she goes to her own
breakfast, she is expected to clear the dining-room table and take the
dishes into the kitchen.

If the waitress does not help with the chamber-work, this duty falls
entirely upon the chamber-maid.  She must make the beds, sweep and dust
the bedrooms, and keep them immaculate.  The mistress should inspect the
chamber-work occasionally for servants must not be permitted to feel that
carelessness in details will be overlooked And the mistress should also
take care of her own linen closet, unless she has a very trustworthy and
competent servant; for linens should be worn alike, and not some worn
constantly and others allowed to lie forgotten in corner of the closet.


 IN CONCLUSION

A good servant--and by "good" we mean a man or woman who goes about
duties cheerfully, is respectful and willing, who is neat, well-mannered
and well-trained must be treated in the right manner if he or she is to
remain such.  There are so many blunders the mistress can make, so many
mistakes that bring the wrong response from those who are temporarily a
part of her household.

For instance, a haughty, arrogant manner towards a servant who is
sensitive will by no means encourage that servant to do his or her best
work.  And on the other hand, a servile manner towards a good servant one
is afraid of losing, encourages that servant to take liberties and become
unduly familiar.

It is as difficult to be a good mistress as it is to be a good servant.
Both duties require a keen understanding and appreciation of human
nature, a kindliness of spirit and a desire to be helpful.  Both the
servant and the mistress have their trials and troubles, but they should
remember that it is only through mutual helpfulness and consideration, an
exacting attention to duties and responsibilities, a wise supervision and
a faithful service, that harmony and happiness can be reached in the
home. And both should bear in mind that this harmony and happiness is
something worth-while striving for, something worth-while being patient
and persistent for.

There is an old proverb which literally translated means, "By the servant
the master is known."  It is a good proverb for both the servant and the
mistress to remember.



 CHAPTER II

 DINNERS

 ABOUT THE AMERICAN HOSTESS

The greatest pride of the American hostess is her formal dinner. And it
is to her credit that we mention that she can hold her own against the
most aristocratic families of Europe.

There is a story told of a well-known New York society matron who gave a
formal dinner party on every occasion that warranted it, no matter how
trivial, for the reason that it gave her keen pleasure and enjoyment to
do so.  At one of her dinners recently a famous world-touring lecturer
was the guest of honor--and the hostess was as happy and proud as it is
possible for a hostess to be.  Especially was she proud of the delectable
menu she had ordered prepared for the occasion.

But much to her chagrin, she noticed that her distinguished guest was not
eating the tempting hot dishes--only the vegetables, and relishes and
fruits.  She did not wish to appear rude, but she could not wait until
dinner was over before asking him why he was not eating.  "I am a
vegetarian," he answered, "and I never indulge in meats."

The hostess-of-many-dinners had an inspiration.  Here was an opportunity
to give a unique dinner-and nothing could be more delightful for her.  A
week later, she sent out invitations to all her friends requesting their
presence at another formal dinner to be held in honor of the visiting
lecturer.  This time it was a vegetarian dinner.  Suffice to say that it
was a huge success.

Such is the hospitality of our American hostesses that they will concede
to every whim and desire of their guests.  They must be pleased at all
costs.  The dinner is not a success unless each guest leaves a little
happier than when he came and incidentally a little better pleased with
the person who happens to be giving the dinner.

 PLANNING THE FORMAL DINNER

First in importance, of course, is when shall the formal dinner be held?
Any evening of the week may be selected--although Sunday is rarely
chosen.  The hour is usually between seven and eight o'clock.
Invitations should be mailed a week or ten days before the date set for
the dinner.  The hostess may use her own judgment in deciding whether the
invitations should be engraved on cards, or hand-written on note paper.
The former is preferred for an elaborate dinner, the latter for a small
one.

It must be remembered in inviting guests to dinner, that it is a breach
of etiquette to invite a wife without her husband, or the opposite.  A
married couple must always be invited together.  If there are other
members of the family who are desired as guests at the dinner, separate
invitations must be sent to them.  A dinner card is always addressed to a
husband and wife, and individually to single persons.

For the convenience of the host, it is a point of courtesy for every
recipient of an invitation to dinner, to answer promptly. A good rule is
to decide immediately upon receiving it whether or not you will be able
to attend, and follow it with a cordial answer within the next
twenty-four hours.  If you find that you must refuse, there must be a
very good reason for doing so.

In planning the dinner party, the hostess must go over her list of
friends and carefully select six or eight who would naturally be most
congenial together.  The number may even be as low as four, and while
there can be no absolute limit to the number one may invite, there must
never be more than the hostess can handle easily.  If the guests are
chosen carefully, with a regard for their likes and dislikes, the dinner
is bound to be a happy one.

 ARRANGING THE TABLE

To set the formal dinner table correctly is an art in itself.

The appointments of the modern dinner table are a delight. Services are
of silver and china is of the finest.  Both the square or round table are
appropriate, the latter being the most popular since it is easier to make
attractive.  A mat of asbestos or a thickness of canton flannel is first
spread on the table.  Over this comes the snowy, linen table-cover,
falling gracefully over the sides with the four points almost touching
the floor.  A place is laid for each guest.  The most fashionable method
is to have a large lace or embroidered doily in the center of the table,
and smaller ones indicating the position of the guests.  A centerpiece of
glass, china, silver, is usually used, over the doily or without it, and
on top of this, flowers. Delicate ferns are sometimes used instead of
flowers, although roses (hot-house roses when no others are obtainable)
are always the favorite at an elaborate dinner.

 STARTING AT THE CENTER

When the center ornament has been adjusted, it may be used as a
mathematical base for all the rest of the table appointments.
Candlesticks, either of silver or bronze, are artistic when placed at
equal distance around the flowers.  They diffuse a soft light upon the
table, and by being an incentive to the recalling of old memories, they
invoke conversation when there is danger of its lagging.  It is one of
the charms of candlelight--thus power to bring up pleasant reminiscences.
Between these stately guardians of the floral centerpiece may be placed
small dishes containing preserved ginger, macaroons or bon-bons.

Salt-cellars and pepper-boxes are next located on the table, and the
places are laid for the guests.  The proper number of forks is placed to
the left.  The knives and spoons are placed at the right.  They are
placed in the order in which they are to be used.  Not more than three
forks should ever appear on the table at one time.  If others are needed
they should be placed with their respective courses.  A small square of
bread, or a roll, is in the center, covered with the folded napkin, and a
little to the left are the several glasses.

Care must be taken in arranging the dinner table to have both sides
balanced.  There is an old maxim that says, "There must be a use for
everything" and this holds especially true of the table of good taste.
It must not be littered with useless articles, no matter how artistic or
odd, for they hamper the movements of the guests and make things
unnecessarily crowded. Butter rarely appears on the table at the formal
dinner; and condiments are brought in by the servant only as they are
needed.

 SOME IMPORTANT DETAILS

Menu-cards are no longer used at the formal dinner, unless it is in
celebration of some auspicious occasion and honored guests are present.
In this case, the hostess has the menus printed or engraved in a delicate
script and has one placed beside the plate of each guest.  A favorite
fashion is to have them printed in French.  Sometimes one of these cards
serves for two guests, although the hostess who takes a pride in her
dinners will provide each guest with one, as it serves as an appropriate
souvenir of the occasion.

The lighting effect of the dining-room is important.  Instead of the
candles on the table there may be an electric cluster high above the
table, or small candle-power electric lights on the walls.  These latter
produce a soft effect which is most pleasing.  Glaring lights of any kind
should be avoided.  Candles and electric lights should never be used in
conjunction.

There is nothing more conducive to thorough enjoyment of an evening, to
the thorough enjoyment of a menu, than when table and appointments are
perfect and artistically simple.  The hostess should give as much time
and thought to the preparation and arrangement of the table, as she does
to the planning of the menu.  She will find that her guests will
appreciate novel lighting effects, surprising color tones, unusual
serving innovations.  And she will find that a correctly laid table will
add surprisingly to the entire success of her dinner party.

 TABLE ETIQUETTE

The importance of correct table etiquette cannot be over-emphasized.
Nothing is more vulgar, than clumsy, awkward movements at the table, and
it is certainly a sign of ill-breeding deliberately to fail to act in
accordance with the rules of table etiquette.  The rules of dinner
etiquette should be studied carefully and just as carefully followed, if
one wishes to be--and everyone does--a lady or a gentleman.

Perhaps the most important thing is one's bearing at table.  Very often
you see a seemingly cultured gentleman in a hotel dining-room or
restaurant playing with the table silver or absent-mindedly clinking
glasses together.  This may be overlooked in the restaurant, but at a
formal dinner it is essentially bad form.  When the hands are not being
used, they should rest quietly in the lap--never should the elbows be
rested on the table.  The chair should be neither too near nor too far
from the table; both are ungraceful and awkward.

 TABLE SERVICE

The dinner napkin is from twenty to twenty-four inches across. It is
folded square unless the table is somewhat crowded, when it may be folded
diagonally (after having been folded square) so as to give more space
around the board.  If the napkins are monogrammed the monogram should be
placed so as to be in plain view.

At a formal dinner the first course is on the table when the guests enter
the dining-room.  It consists of oysters, a canape, a fruit cocktail,
grapefruit or something else of the same kind. Oysters on the half-shell
are served bedded in crushed ice in a soup plate.  This is placed on the
service plate.  A cocktail is served in a cocktail glass which is placed
on a doily-covered plate which in turn is placed on the service plate.
The silver for the first course may be on the table beside the soup spoon
or it may be served with the course.

The waiter removes the first course entirely before the soup is placed.
He stands at the left of each guest and removes the plates with his left
hand.  The soup in soup plates (not in a tureen) is placed on the service
plates and when this course is over service plates as well as soup plates
are removed and the entree is served.  If the plates for it are empty
they are placed with the right hand but if the entree is already on them
they are placed with the left.  If empty plates are supplied the waiter
passes the entree on a platter held on a folded napkin on his left hand,
using his right hand to help balance it.  Each guest serves himself.

At the conclusion of this course the plates are removed and empty warm
plates placed for the meat course.  The meat should be carved before it
is brought to the table and after the waiter has served each person he
serves the vegetables.  If there is only one waiter it is more convenient
to have the vegetables placed on the table in large vegetable dishes from
which each guest serves himself.  After the vegetables have gone around
once they are removed but they may be passed once or twice again before
the conclusion of the meal.

The salad follows.  It may be served on each plate (and this is surely
the more artistic way) or it may be served from a platter.  After the
salad the table is cleared of all plates that have been in use, of salt
and pepper shakers or cellars and is crumbed before the dessert is
brought in.

Usually the dessert which is nearly always ice-cream or something else
frozen is served in individual dishes.  Small cakes are passed with it.
Other desserts besides ice-cream are served in much the same way.

When the dessert has been removed, finger-bowls half filled with water
and placed on a small doily-covered plate are set before each person.

Coffee may be served at the table but it is more often served in the
drawing-room.

 USE OF THE NAPKIN

What can be more unsightly than a napkin tucked carefully in the top of
one's waistcoat?  And still, how often one sees it done among men who
believe that they are impressively well-bred!  The proper way to use a
napkin, whether it is at a formal dinner, or in a restaurant, is to
unfold it only half, leaving the center fold as it is, and lay it across
the knees.  It may be used constantly during the meal, whenever the guest
finds need for it, but it must never be completely unfolded.

When rising from the table, the napkin is placed as it is on the table.
It is never folded again into its original form, as that would be an
assumption on the part of the guest that the hostess would use it again
before laundering.  A reprehensible habit is to drop the napkin
carelessly into the finger-bowl, or over the coffee cup.  It should be
laid on the table, at the right of the finger-bowl.

 THE SPOON AT THE DINNER TABLE

Spoons are used when eating grapefruit and other fruits served with
cream.  Jellies, puddings, custards, porridges, preserves and boiled eggs
are always eaten with spoons.  Also, of course, soup, bouillon, coffee
and tea.  In the case of the three latter beverages, however; the spoon
is used only to stir them once or twice and to taste them to see that
they are of the desired temperature.  It is never allowed to stand in the
cup while the beverage is being drunk.  Nor is it permissible to draw up
a spoonful of soup or coffee and blow upon it; one must wait until it is
sufficiently cooled of itself.  In taking soup, the correct way to use
the spoon is to dip it with an outward motion instead of drawing it
towards one.  The soup is then imbibed from the side, not the end.

 THE FORK AND KNIFE

In using the fork and knife, one can display a pleasing grace, or just
the opposite--awkward clumsiness.  It depends entirely upon how well one
knows and follows the correct rules.  The first rule to be remembered is
that a knife is never used for any other purpose than cutting food.  It
is unforgiveable to use a knife to convey food to the mouth--
unforgiveable and vulgar.  The knife is held in the right hand and
the fork in the left.  When the desired morsel of food is cut, the knife
is laid aside temporarily and the fork is shifted to the right hand.

The knife and fork should never be held in the same hand together, and
when not being used, one or both of the utensils should rest on the
plate.  They should never be allowed to rest against the edge of the
plate with the handles on the table; when one is through with both the
knife and fork, they should be placed entirely on the plate, their tips
touching at the center, their handles resting against the edge.  They are
never placed back again on the table.

The foods eaten with the fork are meats, vegetables, fish, salads,
oysters and clams, lobster, ices, frozen puddings and melons.  Hearts of
lettuce and lettuce leaves are folded up with the fork and conveyed uncut
to the mouth.  If the leaves are too large to be folded conveniently,
they may be cut with the blunt edge of the fork--never with a knife.

 FINGER FOODS

Various foods are eaten with the fingers instead of fork or spoon.
Bread, for instance, is never cut but always broken into small pieces and
lifted to the mouth with the fingers.  Butter is seldom provided at the
formal dinner, but if it is, each little piece of bread is buttered
individually just before it is eaten.  Crackers and cake are eaten in the
same way; although some cakes and pastries are eaten with the fork.
Those that can be eaten daintily with the fingers such as macaroons,
lady-fingers, cookies, etc., should be eaten so while layer cake and
elaborate pastries should be eaten with the fork.

Corn on the cob is without a doubt one of the most difficult foods to eat
gracefully.  And yet it is too delicious to forego the pleasure of eating
it at all.  It is entirely permissible to use the fingers in eating corn,
holding it lightly at each end; sometimes a napkin is used in holding it.
Many a foresighted hostess, when serving corn on the cob, provides each
guest with a short, keen, steel-bladed knife with which the kernels may
be cut from the cob easily.  This is by far the most satisfactory method.

French artichokes are also difficult to eat.  The proper way is to break
them apart, leaf by leaf, dip the tips in the sauce and lift them to the
mouth with the fingers.  The heart is cut and eaten with a fork.

Lobster claws may be pulled apart with the fingers.  Shrimps also, when
served whole in their shells, may be separated, peeled and eaten with the
fingers.  Fruits such as oranges, apples, grapes, peaches and plums are
all eaten with the fingers.  Celery, radishes and olives are similarly
eaten. Sometimes there are other relishes on the dinner table, and the
guest must use his common sense to determine whether they are eaten with
the fork or fingers.  Bonbons, of course, are always eaten with the
fingers.

Whenever fruits are served the finger-bowl should follow.  It is always
used at the completion of the dinner.  The bowl is half filled with tepid
water and set upon a plate.  A fragrant leaf may be added to the water.
The fingers are dipped lightly into the bowl, one hand at a time, and
then dried on the napkin.  It is a mark of ill breeding to splash the
water about, to put both hands into the bowl at once, or to wet the
entire palm of the hand.  Only the finger tips should touch the water.

 TABLE ACCIDENTS

"Accidents will happen"--at the dinner table as well as anywhere else.
The duty of the guest and the hostess both is to see that no confusion
and embarrassment follows.

If a spoon or fork or napkin is dropped, the proper thing to do is to
allow the servant to pick it up; the well-trained servant will not return
it, but place it aside and give the guest another one.  If a glass or cup
is dropped and broken, embarrassed apologies will not put it together
again, but a word of sincere regret to the hostess will relieve the
awkwardness of the moment, and will be as gratifying to her as profuse
apologies.  If the article broken is a valuable one, the guest may
replace it by sending, a day or two later, another one as nearly like it
as possible.  A cordial note of regret may accompany it.

Sometimes a cup of coffee or a glass of water is overturned at the table.
This is, of course, a very serious and unpleasant accident, but there is
no necessity in making matters worse by fussing about it and offering
several exaggerated apologies.  A simple word or two to the hostess will
suffice; but it is really quite important that one should be careful not
to let an accident of this kind happen too often, otherwise one will soon
acquire the reputation of being a clumsy boor.

There is certainly no reason to feel embarrassed when an accident occurs
at the dinner table  that is, of course, if it was not due to
carelessness.  It is not the accident itself that will cause the guests
and the hostess to consider one ill-bred, but continued mention of it and
many flustered apologies.  "I am sorry" or "How careless of me!" are
sufficient offers of regret--the matter should then be forgotten.

 THE HOSTESS

Important indeed are the duties of the hostess, for it is upon her that
the ultimate success of the dinner depends.  It is not enough to send out
the invitations, plan a delectable menu and supervise the laying of the
table.  She must afford pleasant diversion and entertainment for her
guests from the minute they enter her home until they are ready to leave.
The ideal hostess is the one who can make her guests, one and all, feel
better satisfied with themselves and the world in general when they leave
her home than they did when they arrived.

 WHEN THE GUESTS ARRIVE

The duty of receiving and welcoming the guests rests with the host and
hostess.  They receive in the drawing-room until fifteen or twenty
minutes after the time mentioned in the invitations. Then, even if there
is still a guest or two missing, it is customary for dinner to be served.
Only on one occasion does this rule vary; if the dinner is being held in
honor of some celebrated guest, it may not be served until he has
arrived.

The hostess, in inviting her guests, should be sure that there is an
equal number of men and women.  Husbands and wives should never be sent
into the dining-room together.  The usual order of precedence is as
follows:  The host leads with the lady who is to sit at his right; if the
dinner is in honor of a married couple, the host goes in to dinner with
the wife of the honored guest; the hostess ending the "procession" with
that lady's husband. When there are no guests of honor the host takes the
eldest lady present.  Usually a lady visiting the house for the first
time is the first to enter the dining-room.  If there is one more woman
than men in the party, the customary thing is for the hostess to enter
the dining-room alone after all her guests have entered it.  She must
never take the other arm of the last gentleman.

The seating should be arranged by placing cards bearing the names of each
guest next to each plate if the party is a large one.  This method may be
pursued if the party is small, though, in this case it is quite possible
for the hostess to indicate gracefully the place where she wishes each
guest to sit.  The guests who enter the dining-room together sit side by
side; the hostess always waits until everyone is seated, before she takes
her place and motions that the dinner is to proceed.

When a guest arrives late, the hostess must endeavor to make him feel at
ease and unembarrassed.  If the guest is a woman, she rises, greets her
cordially and conducts her to her place without mentioning her lateness.
If it is a man, she merely bows and smiles without rising and immediately
starts a lively discussion or interesting conversation to draw attention
away from the late arrival.  In this manner he is put at ease, and the
incident is promptly forgotten.

 THE SUCCESSFUL HOSTESS

The hostess must see that all her guests are comfortable and well taken
care of.  She must stimulate conversation and help things along by
herself relating amusing little anecdotes or experiences.  She must not
introduce any topic, however, that would in the least detail suggest
scandal or gossip.

Nothing is more delightful, at the dinner table, whether formal or
informal, than the interesting little chats between old friends and new
acquaintances.  Special musical programs always please dinner guests, and
when held after dinner are usually appreciated.  In selecting musical
numbers the hostess should bear in mind the personal likes and dislikes
of her guests. Music during the meal if it is soft enough not to
interfere with conversation is pleasing, though it is not essential.  The
musicians should be hidden behind palms.

Happy is she, who, at the conclusion of the formal dinner, can say to
herself that everything was as it should be; that each of the guests had
an enjoyable time; that the entire dinner had been a success.  And she
may claim the success of the evening as her own, for it is upon the
hostess that each phase of successful dinner-giving devolves, even when
most of the actual entertaining is done by one or more of the guests.

 THE GUEST

When Gung-Yee-Far-Choy (the Chinese two-week New Year) comes, our yellow
cousins make their formal visits.  It is a time of extreme convention,
and despite the seeming revelry and celebration, the strictest rules are
observed.  The calls are made according to the caller's rank.  One pays
visits to those superior, receiving in turn those inferior.  It is
perplexing to know just how they decide which is superior and which
inferior in each case.  Perhaps it is their Oriental instinct.

But the American guest does not have to determine whether he is superior
to his host and hostess--or the opposite.  It is already decided for him,
by the laws of etiquette.  For the guest at the formal dinner must accord
every respect and honor to his host and hostess not in the servile manner
of the coolie towards the mandarin, of course--but in the captivating and
charming manner that bespeaks the fine lady and gentleman.

 COMMENTS ON FOOD

Men and women of cultivation rarely make comments on food except to
praise.  It is better to accept a little of each course on one's place
and eat a bit of it although one does not particularly care for it, than
to refuse it entirely.  A highly amusing story is related of a guest who
was invited to a formal dinner given by a prominent New York woman who
had gained a reputation for the savory qualities of the soups she served.
On this occasion she was especially proud of her Grun Yung Waa
(Bird's-Nest Soup)--and really, from all reports, it must have been
remarkably delicious.  But the guest we are writing about, sniffed at the
soup disdainfully and asked, "Is this some of that new canned soup they
are advertising?"  The hostess blushed--as any conscientious hostess
would--and the next time she issued invitations for dinner, she somehow
forgot to include the guest who read the advertisements so diligently.

 SECOND HELPINGS

A guest at a formal dinner should never ask for a second helping of any
dish.  This holds equally true for an elaborate luncheon. However, the
host or hostess may offer to provide a second helping to any one of the
guests who has disposed of his first helping.  In this case, the guest
may acknowledge it with a smile, or if his appetite is entirely
satisfied, he may refuse it with a polite word of thanks.

To insist, on the part of the host, after the guest has refused a second
helping, is overdoing the bounds of hospitality, and perilously borders
on the verge of incivility.

 THE MENU

The hostess must be careful not to apologize profusely for things which
are not as she would like to have them; it is better form completely to
ignore the fact that the salad is not crisp enough or that the entree is
too highly seasoned.  The entire time spent at table should be no more
than an hour and a half.  An hour is usually sufficient if the courses
are served with expedition.  But there must be no semblance of haste.

Good cook books are full of suggestions for delectable menus and for the
order of service.  The butler or maid takes complete charge and it is
better to have a less elaborate dinner than to have so many courses that
he or she cannot manage without haste, noise, or confusion.  The order of
service depends upon the number of courses.  The cook book will help
here, also. Generally speaking, oysters on the half shell buried in ice,
a cocktail, or a fruit cup constitutes the first course.  This is
followed by soup, game or fish, a salad, the roast and vegetables,
dessert and coffee.

In presenting the first course the lady at the right of the host is
served first.  After that the order is varied so that the same person
will not be served last every time.  The butler serves dishes from the
left and removes them from the right.  No plates for any course are
removed until everyone has finished.  It is not necessary to wait until
everyone is served to begin eating but it is most vulgar to show undue
haste.

It is the duty of the butler to keep the glas