Little David looked up and smiled. Joel threw back his head and
squinted critically. "I wish I could go sailing up there on that
cloud," he said.

"I don't," said Polly, merrily, swinging her tin pail. "I'd
rather be down here and going blackberrying with you children.
Well, come on, we ought to hurry, 'cause we want to take home as
many as we can."

"You're always hurrying us, Polly Pepper," grumbled Joel,
lagging behind. "What for, if we can't have any pie?"

"Well, we can carry home the berries to Mamsie, anyway," said
Polly, moving on very fast. Phronsie trotted after her with a very
happy face.

"Now, children," said Polly, when they reached the place where
the bars were to be taken down, "we must keep together, and not
straggle off. Remember, Joe; then when we're ready to go home,
it won't be such a piece of work to get started."

Joel was already pulling at the bars. "Come on, Dave, and help,"
he called.

"We'll go right across this corner," said Polly, when the bars
were put back, and they were on the other side, "and then, says
I, we'll soon be at the blackberry patch. O my, just see that
bird!"

"Polly's always stopping to look at birds," said Joel.

"I like 'em, too," said David. "And that one is just beautiful."

"It's just beautiful," hummed Phronsie, who wanted to stop every
moment and pick clover blossoms, or the big waving green grasses.

"Well, come on, Pet," said Polly, seeing this, "or we shan't
ever get to the blackberry patch; and then, says I, what would
Mamsie ever do for her berries!"

At this, such a dreadful distress seized the whole bunch of
little Peppers, that they one and all scuttled as fast as they
could through the long grass, Phronsie not looking back once to
pick a single blossom; and Polly presently had her company all
marshalled up in good order in a perfect thicket of blackberry
bushes, where the berries hung as thick and ripe as could be.

For a few minutes no one spoke; the big blackberries tumbling
into the tin pails making the only noise, though Phronsie
dropped hers into the grass as often as she put one in her
little cup. And they worked so fast, that no one noticed that
Polly's blue sky was getting overcast by white patches of puffy
clouds that looked as if they were chasing each other. At last
Joel said, "Ow!" and began to complain that he was all scratched
up by the prickly bushes, and when Phronsie heard that, she set
down her tin cup and held up her fat little arms. "See, Polly,"
she said gravely.

"O dear me, now that's too bad, Pet!" So Polly had to come out
from her nice little clump where she was picking fast, and kiss
the little red marks on Phronsie's arms. "Now don't lean in the
bushes again; I'll show you a place. There," and Polly pointed
to some low branches that stood out; and the blackberries on
them were thick and ripe.

"Ooh!" said Phronsie, when she saw them; and she forgot all
about her arms, that prickled and ached, and Polly flew back to
her clump again.

Rumble--rumble! "Oh, boys!" gasped Polly, "there can't be a
thunder-storm coming!" and she poked her head out from her clump,
and stared up at the sky in dismay. "There surely is! Now we
must run home like everything." She skipped out and seized
Phronsie's arm. "Come, Pet," and not stopping to look, she set
out upon a run. Phronsie began to wail, and then pulled back.
"I've left my cup, Polly," she said.

"Didn't you bring it?" cried Polly, pausing a minute. "Boys," as
she saw that they hadn't started, "come this minute, and bring
Phronsie's cup," she screamed. "Now come on, child; they run so
much faster they will soon overtake us."

Phronsie, with her mind at rest about her cup, kept up as well as
she could by Polly's side. "I guess I shall have to carry you,"
at last said Polly, as the boys came rushing up in high glee
over their dash across the meadow.

"Where's my cup?" asked Phronsie, holding out eager hands.

"Here," said Joel, thrusting it at her. "Now come on, Dave,
let's see who will get to the bars first."

Phronsie peered within the tin cup. "Why--where--" she began.
Then she turned two big sorrowful eyes up toward Polly. "They
aren't there," she said.

"What--the berries? Oh, never mind, Pet, you shall have some of
mine," said Polly, whose only thought was how to get home as
quickly as possible. "Goodness me, child!" as a raindrop
splashed on her nose. "I really shall have to carry you," and
Polly picked her up, and tried to hurry over the ground.

"But they won't be mine I picked," wailed Phronsie. "Polly, I
want my very own."

"Well, the boys spilled 'em, I s'pose," said Polly, staggering
on, her own tin pail swinging from her arms, while Phronsie grew
heavier and heavier every minute, and the clouds blacker and
blacker. "Dear me, I didn't think it was so far across this meadow!"
when suddenly Joel screamed out, "Oh, Polly, he's coming!" and
there, from the further corner of the field, was walking quite smartly
a bull, and he was looking straight at her and Phronsie.

"I mustn't run," said Polly; "Mamsie said once, I remember, I
must look straight at any cross animal, and not let 'em see that
I was afraid." So she set Phronsie down on the ground. "Now, Pet,
don't run, but walk to Joel as fast as you can," for Joel and
David were over the bars, which they hadn't taken the trouble to
take down for themselves, intending to do it for Polly and
Phronsie when they should come up.

Phronsie set off at once, since Polly had told her to do so, and
was soon nearly at the bars. Joel sprang over to meet her.

"Don't run, Joe," called Polly, in a warning voice; "just take
her over the bars." Then she slowly went backward, keeping her
brown eyes fastened on the bull, who still walked toward her,
with his eyes fixed on her face.

Joel got Phronsie safely over the bars, David, with trembling
fingers, pulling her from the other side, and all was going on
well when Polly stepped backward into a little gully, and over
she went in a heap. In a minute, the bull tossed his head and
quickened his pace, and by the time she was up on her feet,
he was coming on toward her at a trot, and with an angry light
in his eyes.

All of a sudden, Joel shot past her. "I'll stop him, Polly," he
said cheerily, and he dashed in between her and the bull, who,
not liking this interference, now shook his head angrily. Joel
then turned off, and the animal went after him.

"Joel, you'll be killed!" cried Polly, rushing after him, to
make the bull turn from the chase. But it was useless; for both
were now well across the field, Joel running like wildfire, and
the bull snorting and kicking up the ground in his rage after
him. And Polly, straining her eyes, pretty soon saw Joel turn
swiftly and duck, and the bull run with full force against a
tree, before he could stop himself. And there was Joel clambering
over a high stone wall. Then she started and rushed for the high
bars, climbed them in a flash, and when the disappointed bull came
running back, there she was, with the other two, huddled up in
a place of safety. And in a minute Joel scrambled around from
his stone wall. So there they were, all together, safe and sound!

"Oh, Joel, are you really here?" exclaimed Polly, laughing and
crying over him together.

"Yes," said Joel, "I am, Polly;" then he looked up from her arms
that she had thrown around his neck. "You've lost your berries,
Polly Pepper, and the tin pail. Now what will Mamsie say?"

"I guess she won't say anything," said Polly, with a little
shiver. "Come, children, we must run, now, as fast as we can,
for it is going to rain like everything."

"Joey," said Polly, when they paused a moment to take breath,
"you must give Phronsie some of your berries when we get home;
that's a good boy, for I promised her some of mine. Hers got
spilt, and now I haven't any."

"Well, mine shook out of the pail," said Joel, dismally, "when I
swung it at that old bull's face."

"I'll give her mine," declared Davie. "You shall have 'em all,
Phronsie."

Phronsie, at that, could not express her delight, but she clasped
her hands, and gave a great sigh of satisfaction.

When they all reached home, there was Mamsie watching for them
anxiously. And they all scampered in out of the rain like so
many rabbits.

"Children, I've got such a surprise for you," said Mother Pepper,
as soon as she could take off the wet clothes from Phronsie, and
get her into something dry. "Now, you all better get your things
off, and hang 'em to dry by the stove, and get on some clean
clothes."

"I ain't wet, and we haven't got any berries, 'cept Dave, an' he
gave 'em to Phronsie," said Joel. "They all got shook out of the
pails, Polly's and mine did, when the bull chased us."

"When the bull chased you!" repeated Mrs. Pepper, while her
black eyes roved from one to the other.

"Oh, Joel, don't tell Mamsie this way," said Polly, pulling his
jacket. "Besides, Phronsie doesn't know what we ran for."

"David," said Mrs. Pepper, "take Phronsie into the bedroom and
shut the door. Now then, Polly and Joel, tell me all about it,
every word."

So they did, not sparing themselves a bit of the account, Joel
cutting in when he thought Polly didn't tell enough what she did.

"But oh, Mamsie, you can't think how splendid Joe was!" cried
Polly, with shining eyes; "he couldn't have done better if he'd
had a sword and gun." Then she told it all over--his part--dilating
at great length upon it, until Joel got down on the floor and
rolled and kicked in dismay, because he couldn't stop her.

"Make her stop, Mamsie," he howled.

"And oh, when Ben comes home, won't I have a splendid story to
tell him!" finished Polly. "How I wish he'd come now," and the
queerest thing was, the door opened, and in he walked.

"I got through earlier than I expected," he said. "Why, what
makes you all look so queer?"

"We've had enough to make us look queer," answered Mrs. Pepper.
Her eyes shone too! "Polly will tell you," she added.

So Polly, glad enough to tell the story, went over it all, bit
by bit. When she came to Joel's part, Ben seized him from off
the floor. "See here, I'll give you a ride, Joe, in honor of
it," and setting him on his shoulder, Ben pranced around and
around the old kitchen, till Joel screamed with delight.

"I tell you what, that was fine!" declared Ben, and his eyes
shone too. Then Phronsie drummed on the bedroom door, and begged
to be let out, in spite of all that Davie could do to stop her.

"Do run and let her out, and Davie, too," said Mrs. Pepper,
quite as excited as either Polly or Ben.

"I'll go," said Joel, flying off with alacrity. So Phronsie and
David came running in, well pleased to be once more in the midst
of things; and then it was time for supper, and all the while
she was laying the cloth and getting out the dishes, Polly was
looking at Joel, and her brown head went up proudly, and every
once in a while she would run over and drop a kiss on his stubby
hair.

And when Davie went up to the loft back of him that night, as
they were going to bed, Joel turned around on the upper stair.
"We'll play bull to-morrow, Dave," he said.

"No, I don't want to," said little Davie, with a shiver.

"Pooh! I do; it's splendid! You may be the bull, if you want
to," said Joel, generously.

"I don't want to," protested Davie, fretfully, and hurrying off
his clothes, to tuck into bed, where he huddled down.

"Well, you've got to," said Joel, determinedly, giving his
jacket a fling to the corner, "'cause if you don't, I'll be the
bull, and chase you just awful. So there now, Dave Pepper!"

But Davie was spared that tribulation, for when the next day
came, Mrs. Pepper had so much work for them all to do, that the
chase dropped entirely out of Joel's mind, even if he had a
moment in which to accomplish it. The great surprise that Mrs.
Pepper had told them of, now came out, everybody being so full
of the adventure with the bull, that it completely crowded out
everything else.

"Now you can't guess," said Mrs. Pepper, smiling at them all,
when she had repeated, "such a surprise, children," "so I might
as well tell you. It was--"

"Oh, Mammy, let us guess," howled Joel. "I know--it is a horse!
Somebody's given you one."

A perfect shout greeted this, but Joel was in no wise dashed. "I
don't care," he said, "that would be a surprise."

"Yes, I think it would be," laughed Ben. "Guess again, Joe, and
don't give such a wild one."

"Then I guess it's some candy," said Joel, coming down with a
long jump to a possibility; "and do give us some right away."

"No, it isn't candy," said Mrs. Pepper, smiling at him.

"Then I don't care what it is," declared Joel, turning off
indifferently; "and say, Polly, what have you got for breakfast?"

"The same as ever," said Polly, with only half an ear for him,
her mind being intent on the splendid surprise; "you know, Joel;
what makes you ask?"

"Mean old breakfast!" said Joel, with a grimace. "Polly, why
don't we ever have anything but mush?"

"You know that too, Joe," said Polly, with a cold shoulder for
him. "Do let me be, I want to guess Mamsie's surprise. O dear me!
whatever can it be?" She wrinkled up her brows, and lost herself
in a brown study.

"I guess I know," said Ben, slowly, after a good look at Mrs.
Pepper's face.

"What?" roared Joel, interested again, since Ben had guessed it.

"It's blackberries," answered Ben, with a shrewd nod of his head.
"Isn't it, Mamsie?"

"Yes, it is," said Mrs. Pepper; "you've guessed it, sure enough,
Bensie."

"Hoh--old blackberries!" cried Joel, dreadfully disappointed,
and falling back to the other corner.

"The blackberries aren't to be ours," said Mrs. Pepper; "that
is--"

"Not to be ours," repeated the children together, while even Ben
looked surprised.

"No." Mrs. Pepper laughed outright to see their faces. "You
can't guess," she said again, "so I'll tell you. Mrs. Brown is
sick, and I'm to make her blackberry jell over here; and she's
given me some sugar, besides the pay she'll give me, so now we
can have our pie."

There was a perfect babel at this, the five little Peppers
having always before them the hope of some day hearing their
mother say they should have a blackberry pie--to make up for not
being able to accomplish the chicken pie that Polly and all the
others had so longed for--and which was quite beyond their
expectations. Now the blackberry pie was really coming!

"Make it now. Make it now, Mamsie, do," begged Joel, his mouth
watering.

"Goodness me!" exclaimed Polly; "why, it's before breakfast, Joe.
The idea of teasing Mamsie to do it now."

"And I can't do it just after breakfast, either," said Mrs.
Pepper, "for I must begin as soon as I can on the jell, and you
must all help me. There is ever so much you can all be useful in,
about making jell. All but Ben, he's got to go to work, you
know."

"When will you make the pie, then?" cried Joel, trying to
smother his disappointment, and finding it hard work to do so.

"Just as soon as ever this jell is done and out of the way,"
said Mother Pepper, in her cheeriest tones. "So, Polly, fly at
getting the breakfast ready, and when that's eaten, we'll all,
except Ben, tackle the jell."

When the dishes were all cleared off, and Polly was washing them,
Mrs. Pepper turned to Joel. "Run over to Mrs. Brown's now, Joe,
and get her kettle."

"What kettle?" asked Joe, who didn't relish being turned out
of the kitchen in all the bustle of getting ready for the jelly-making.

"The preserve-kettle," answered Mrs. Pepper. "She'll tell you
where 'tis. I told her I'd send you over for it. And be real
still, Joe, and don't ask her questions, 'cause she's miserable,
and is in for a long sick spell if she doesn't look out."

So Joel went off, wishing there weren't any such things in the
world as preserve-kettles, and presently, back he came, dragging
it after him "bump-bump."

"Oh, Joe," cried Mrs. Pepper, in dismay, "how could you!"

"I don't b'lieve he's hurt it, Mamsie," said Polly, running up
to examine the kettle closely; "he couldn't, could he? it's all
iron."

"No, I don't suppose he could really hurt it any," said Mrs.
Pepper, "but he oughtn't to drag it along and bump it. Things
that don't belong to us should be handled extra carefully. Well
now, Joe, set down the kettle, and go and wash your hands, you
and Davie, and then come back and pick over these blackberries,
and Polly'll take hold as soon as she gets through with the
work."

"O dear, I don't want to pick over old blackberries," whined
Joel.

"Then I suppose you don't care for any of the pie when it's
baked," said his mother, coolly; "folks who can't help along in
the work, shouldn't have any of the good things when they're
passed around."

"Oh, yes, I do want some pie," declared Joel, vehemently. "Dave
and me both want some; don't we, Dave?"

"Yes, I do," said little Davie, "very much indeed, Mamsie."

"And I want some pie," echoed Phronsie, hearing the last words,
and smoothing down her pink apron.

"So you shall have, Phronsie," promised Mrs. Pepper, "and so
shall every one of you who's glad to work, and be useful."

"We'll be useful and work," cried Joel, tumbling out into the
woodshed to wash up. "Come on, Dave; then we'll get our pie when
it's baked."




XXIV

HOW JOEL STARTED THE FIRE


"Now," said Polly, to the old stove, "just remember how you
acted that day when Mamsie made Mrs. Brown's jelly!" She was
standing in front of it, and she drew herself up very straight.
"You ought to be ashamed, you naughty thing, you! to make such
trouble. Now I've stuffed you up all good and nice in the holes,
and when I come home I'll build a fresh fire, and then, says I,
you've got to bake a whole batch of bread just as nice!" and
Polly shook her brown head very decidedly, and whirled off to
the bedroom door. "Come, Phronsie," she called, "hurry up, Pet.
O dear me!" Phronsie still sat on the floor by the big bureau,
with one red-topped shoe in her hand, and patting it.

"The other one is on, Polly," said Phronsie, as she saw Polly's
face; "truly it is," and she stuck one foot out.

"I sh'd think it was," laughed Polly; "every button is in the
wrong button-hole, Phronsie."

Phronsie looked at the little shoe very gravely, then her lip
quivered.

"Deary me, that's no matter," exclaimed Polly. "We'll have that
all right in a twinkling." So she sat down on the floor, and
took Phronsie's foot in her lap, and unbuttoned and buttoned up
the shoe. "There now, that's done as spick-span as can be."

"What is 'spick-span,' Polly?" said Phronsie.

"Oh, nice--just right. Dear me, it means ever so many things,"
said Polly, with a little laugh. "Now then, let's have the other
shoe on," and she held out her hand for it.

"Let me put it on," cried Phronsie, and drawing it back in alarm;
"let me, Polly, oh, I want to put it on my very own self, I do!"

"Well, so you shall," promised Polly, "if you'll hurry, for you
know I've got to bake my bread when I get back."

"Isn't there any bread?" asked Phronsie, drawing on the little
shoe, and pausing, lost in thought, when it was half on.

"Yes, just enough to last till I get the new loaves baked," said
Polly, longing to give the shoe a twitch and expedite matters;
"that is, I think so. I never know how much Joel will eat."

"O dear me!" exclaimed Phronsie, much troubled.

"See here now, Pet," cried Polly, decidedly, "if you don't pull
on that shoe quickly, I shall have to do it, for we must start--"
which had the effect to make the little red-topped shoe slip on
to Phronsie's fat foot in a trice.

"Now then, we're ready," said Polly at last, tying on Phronsie's
pink sunbonnet. "Come, Phronsie," and she took her hand. "Joel,"
she called, as they went out the doorway, "where are you?"

"Here," said Joel, thrusting his head down the loft stairs,
where he had heard every word that Polly had said to the old
stove.

"Now you and Davie must look after the little brown house," said
Polly, feeling very grown up and important, "and be good boys
while we're gone down to the store after the bundle of sacks Mr.
Atkins has got for Mamsie."

"Yes," said Joel, "we will, Polly."

So Polly ran over the stairs and kissed Joel and little Davie,
who crowded up for one also, and then Phronsie had to come
up to be kissed too.

"What are you two boys doing?" asked Polly.

"Nothin'," said Joel.

David was silently digging his toes back and forth on the floor.

"Well, you better come right down and play in the kitchen," said
Polly, "then you can look after things;" and she helped Phronsie
downstairs and took her hand, and they walked down the path and
off on to the road in a very dignified way, for Polly loved to
be fine, and it was always a gala occasion when she could dress
Phronsie up neat and nice, for a walk to the store.

"I very much wish we had a parasol," sighed Polly, who never
could get over the longing for one, ever since she saw Miss
Pettingill's green sunshade, with waving fringe, that she
carried to church; "but then, I don't suppose I'll ever get
one," and she sighed again.

"It's nice to be walking down to the store, Polly," observed
Phronsie, peering up at her from the depths of the pink
sunbonnet, and smoothing her pink calico gown down in front.

"So it is, Chick," said Polly, with a merry laugh. "I don't
b'lieve anybody ever had such perfectly good times as we do, in
all this world."

"No, I don't b'lieve they ever did," said Phronsie, shaking her
yellow head, delighted to see Polly gay once more. So they
walked on quite contentedly.

Meanwhile, Joel turned to Davie up in the loft. "We'll keep the
crickets in the box," he said, "till by'n by, an' go down,
'cause Polly said so. And I'm goin' to help her; you'll see."
With these mysterious words he shoved a tin box half full of
hopping black crickets under the bed, saying, "There, the
cover's on. Come on, Dave," and scrambled down the stairs to the
kitchen.

Little David went down more slowly, as if something were on his
mind. When he reached the kitchen, Joel was standing in front of
the stove, a pile of paper was down on the floor at his feet,
and he had a match in his hand. Davie stared at him in amazement.

"I'm going to help Polly," declared Joel, loudly, holding his
match quite fast with one hand, while he twitched off one of the
covers, with the lifter.

"Oh, Joe, you aren't going to make a fire?" cried little David,
horror-stricken, and rooted to the spot.

"Of course I am," declared Joel, boldly. "I heard Polly talking
to the old stove just before she went away, and she's got to
bake bread when she gets home, an' it's all right, an' she'll be
so glad to see it ready for her." All the time he was talking he
was stuffing the paper into the stove; then he ran into the
woodshed, bringing out some kindlings. "We've got to fill the
wood box, Dave," he said, to make talk and divert David's mind;
and he crammed the wood in after the paper, till there wasn't
much room left.

"You ought not to do it, Joe. O dear me, do stop," implored
David, clasping his hands.

"I'm big enough," declared Joel, strutting around and pulling at
the things that Polly said were dampers--though why they should
be damp, when there was a fire in the stove every day, he never
could see. "And when Polly sees that I can make it as good's she
can, she'll let me do it every day. Yes, sir-_ree!_" With
that he drew the match, and held it to an end of the paper,
sticking up. And forgetting to put back the cover, he raced off
to the wood, shed again for another armful of kindling.

_"Joel!"_ screamed David, left behind in the kitchen. "Come!
Oh, we're afire! We're afire!"

Joel dropped his kindlings and the heavier pieces of wood he had
gathered up, and went like a shot back to the stove again. Great
tongues of flame were shooting up toward the dingy ceiling.

"Why didn't you put the cover on?" cried he, terribly frightened,
for he began to think, after all, perhaps it would be quite as
well to let Polly make the fire. "It'll be all right, I'll have
it on in a minute," suiting the action to the word, as he stuck
the lifter into the cover and advanced to the stove.

"Oh, Joe, you'll be burnt up," cried David, in a dreadful voice,
and wringing his hands.

Joel made a dash, but the flames swirled out at him, so he
backed off.

"You can't do it," screamed Davie; "don't try it, Joe, you'll be
all burnt up."

When Davie said that he couldn't do it, Joel made up his mind
that he would. Besides, the very thought of the little brown
house taking fire turned him desperate with fright; so he made a
second dash, and somehow, he never could tell what made it,
the cover slid on, and the flames muttered away to themselves
inside, in a smothered kind of way, and there they were, shut up
as tight as could be.

"'Twas just as easy as nothing," said Joel, drawing a long
breath, and beginning to strut up and down, still carrying the
cover-lifter. "You're such a 'fraid-cat, Dave," he added
scornfully.

David was beyond caring whether or no he was called a 'fraid-cat,
being stiff with fright, so Joel strutted away to his heart's
content. "Now I must put in more wood," he declared, and,
twitching off the cover, he crammed the stove as full as it
would hold, on top of the blazing mass. Then he wiggled the
dampers again, to suit him, paying particular attention to the
little one in the pipe, then wiped his grimy hands, in great
satisfaction, on his trousers.

"You see 'tisn't anything to make a fire," he observed to David;
"an I'm goin' to build it every single day, after this. Polly'll
be so s'prised. Now come on, Dave, let's go an' play," and
Joel gave a long and restful stretch.

Little David, seeing the stove behaving so well, gave a sigh of
relief, and coming slowly out of his fright, clattered after
Joel, and soon they were down back of the house, where they had
scooped out the ground, and filling it with water, had made what
they called a pond. Here they now began to sail boats made out
of bits of paper.

"Hi--there--you!" shouted a harsh voice. Joel and David,
absorbed in getting their boats across the pond without running
into each other, didn't hear. "_Hi!_" yelled the voice again, "your
house is afire!"

Joel lifted his black head and stared. "Come here, you!"
screamed a man, jumping out of a wagon in the middle of the road,
in front of the little brown house. He was big and redheaded,
and he held a whip in his hand.

This he shook frantically up toward the roof, screaming,
_"Your house is afire!"_

Sure enough. Great volumes of smoke came pouring out of the
chimney, which wasn't any too good, and once in a while a tongue
of flame would sweep out, licking the sides of the bricks,
as much as to say, "You can't shut me up entirely, you see." Oh,
how merrily they danced!

[Illustration: "''TWAS JUST AS EASY AS NOTHING,' SAID JOEL"]


"Get a bucket. Step lively, if you want to save your house!"
roared the man at Joel, who took one good look at the chimney,
then sprang for Mamsie's pail. "Get something, Dave," he
screamed, "and bring some water."

Now that the fire had really come, David, strange to say, felt
all his fright dropping from him. It was as if Mamsie said,
"Save the little brown house, dears," and he rushed on the wings
of the wind over down across the lane, and helped himself to
Grandma Bascom's big bucket, always standing on a bench beside
her kitchen door. And, with it almost full of water, he soon
stood by the big red-headed man's side.

"You're a likely-headed pair o' chaps," said the man, as Joel
dashed up with his pail, which he hadn't been able to find at
once, as Mamsie had put some cloth she was going to bleach into
it, and set it in the woodshed. "Now, then, I must climb the
roof, an' you two boys must keep a-handin' up th' water as smart
as you can."

"Oh, I'm goin' up on the roof," cried Joel, and springing up the
gutter-pipe.

"Do ye think ye kin?" asked the man. But Joel was already
halfway up. And presently the first pail of water was handed up,
and splash it went on the flames, by this time coming out very
lively at the chimney-top. But it didn't seem to do any good,
only to sizzle and siss, for just as soon as a pailful of water
was dashed on, out they popped again, as bright as ever. A boy,
coming whistling down the road, stopped suddenly, took one look,
and ran like lightning over across the fields on a short cut.
"Fire--_fire!_" he screamed, and pretty soon, by dint of jumping
stone walls and fences, he got into the street, at the end of which
stood Mr. Atkins' grocery store. "Fire--_fire!_" he bawled every
step of the way. "Where--where?" cried the people at the store,
rushing to the door and craning their necks, as he flew by, intent
on getting to the fire-engine house, so as to run back with the men
who dragged the machine by the ropes.

"At the Pepperses little brown house," bawled the boy, plunging
on.

"Now, Polly," Mr. Atkins was just saying, when the boy's scream
was heard, "you tell your Ma she needn't hurry about these coats.
I guess that paper'll cover 'em, if I put another knot in th' string.
My land! what's that!--"

"_Fire! Fire!_" the boy was bawling all along the street.
"It's the Pepperses little brown house."

Somebody said, "Poor children." Others, "Don't let 'em hear,"
"Too late!" and various other things.

"Come, Phronsie," said Polly, hoarsely, seizing the little fat
hand. Phronsie, who was regarding some very pink and white
sticks in a big candy jar on the shelf, tore her gaze away, and
followed obediently as Polly pulled her along to the door.

"Oh, Polly, you hurt me," she said in a grieved way.

"Here, I'll take you," cried an old farmer with a long beard
that looked like a bunch of hay, and he seized Phronsie and set
her in his big wagon. Polly hopped in beside. "Don't be scart.
We'll all go down and help," screamed a half dozen voices after
her. Rattle--rattle--clang came the fire-engine, the boy who had
brought the news having secured one of the most important places
at one of the long ropes. And away they went, the procession
gaining in length and strength at each step, till it seemed as
if all Badgertown were on the road and bound for the little
brown house.

The big red-headed man had dashed up to the roof by the side of
Joel. "You better go down and hand water," he said, "an' bring
the axe, we may have to cut away th' ruf." Joel, knowing it was
worse than useless to disobey, slid down, and got the axe first,
to have it ready--oh, dreadful thought!--to cut the little brown
house with; and then the two buckets, as full as they could be
lifted, went up, and came down empty. Up and down. Up and down.

"Here come th' folks," yelled the man on the roof. "Now we're
all right. Don't you be scart, boys, th' fire-engine's comin'."

None too soon! A little fork of flame was just beginning to pop
its head out between the shingles close to the chimney, as if to
say, "You really needn't think you are going to keep us shut
up." Up clattered the fire-engine with a dreadful noise into the
back yard, which suddenly seemed to be full of people of all
sizes. Joel, when he saw the firemen on hand, sprang for the roof
again. This time he staggered up with his bucket of water.

"Oh, Joel!" He looked down and saw, as well as he could, for
something seemed to be the matter with his eyes, Polly's face.
Now that the danger was all over, for of course the fire-engine
and all those people would save the little brown house, Polly
was the last person whom Joel really wanted to see. And he
busied himself in helping to haul up the water-buckets, that now
came up pretty lively as the boys filled them and handed them to
the firemen.

"You'd better get down," said more than one fireman. The roof
now seemed to swarm with them.

"I ain't goin' to," said Joel, obstinately, reaching out for
another bucket; "it's our house, so there!"

"Let him alone," said the big red-headed man, "he'll work as
smart as any two of ye men. If it hadn't 'a' been for him and
that one there," pointing with a grimy thumb to David on the
ground, still patiently getting water and handing up his bucket,
"we'd 'a' been all burnt up, by this time."

Joel's face got fiery red, all through the smut and grime. "If it
hadn't been for me!" and down went his black head. Would Mamsie
and Polly ever, ever forgive him?"

"Oh, Joel," screamed Polly from the ground, looking at him
piteously, "do come down, dear!" But he really didn't hear now.
It seemed to him if he didn't work to the very last, he could
never look Mamsie in the face again, so he was now on the other
side of the chimney, where the fire was the hottest.

"It's an even chance, if we save it," Joel heard one of the
firemen say; "it's got in between the joints. See!"

"Then we've got to cut just that spot," said the big red-headed
man, who, by reason of being on hand first, was considered to be
the leader, and he swung his axe over his head. "Crash!" went
the little brown roof. At the sound, Polly dragged Phronsie over
to David's side.

"Now, then, in with the water lively, boys, and splash her out,"
cried the big red-headed man, who very much liked being a leader.
And thereupon he stopped working, and set the others at it in
such a brisk fashion that the water ran down in perfect rivers
all over the roof, one or two of the streams soaking through, to
drop into Ben's and Joel's and David's bedroom in the loft.

"It's out! It's out!" bawled some of the firemen on the roof to
the men and boys. "You don't need to send up any more water."

"Look behind you!" screamed the boy who had first discovered the
fire. He seemed to have eyes in the back of his head, and the
firemen, whirling around, saw a little tongue of flame shooting
determinedly up. It had run along underneath the shingles and
hopped at the first chance it could get. So the buckets of water
had to keep on flying up, to come down and be filled. Up and
down, up and down, till Polly sank on the grass, unable to bear
it another bit longer. "Oh, if I weren't a girl," she moaned
passionately, "then I could be up there, and I know I'd save the
little brown house. Oh, Mamsie! Mamsie!"

"Don't fret, Polly," said a good woman living in the village,--for
by this time a long procession of men, women, and children
had hurried in, crowding and jamming into the yard,--"ef it
burns down, you shall all come to our house an' stay a spell,
till you get another one."

"Don't," cried Polly, passionately, and shrinking off; "we can't
live, if the little brown house goes. Oh, Mamsie! Mamsie!" and
she sobbed as if her heart would break, and covered her face
with her hands.

"Don't cry, Polly," and Phronsie's little hand crept softly up
to her neck. But Polly couldn't stop. If there had been anything
for her to do, she would have kept up, but to sit there and see
the little brown house burn up, and know because she was a girl
there was no place for her on the roof--why, there she was,
sobbing as if her heart would break, and Phronsie clinging
piteously to her neck.

A ringing shout struck upon her ear. "It's coming!" shivered
Polly; "the roof's tumbling in!" and she hid her face lower yet.
Wouldn't God stop the dreadful fire ever yet. He must, for
Mamsie said He loved to help all His children. And--

"Hooray, Polly!" called Joel in her ear, putting a very black
face up close to her pale one. "Don't you understand? It's all
out. It is, truly, this time, every single squinchin' bit."

But Polly didn't understand, and they laid her back on the grass,
and one woman said, "Get a pamleaf fan," and another cried,
"Get th' water in that pail there," pointing to one not used, on the
grass. And everybody got in everybody else's way, and crowded
around her, and the water was dashed over her face till she was
in a little pool of it, and still she didn't open her eyes. And
Phronsie wailed and clung to her, getting as wet, so a thin
woman remarked, "as a drownded rat," and David was on the other
side, nearly as bad. As for Joel, he rushed up and down,
completely gone with fright. After all his brave fight, to have
Polly give out was something so very dreadful he couldn't think
of it.

"Here comes Mrs. Pepper," said somebody, and, "Thank the Lord,"
said another, and down the road in the doctor's gig, the little
doctor driving like mad, came Mamsie. They helped her out, and
she was in the yard, never looking at the little brown house;
for her black eyes were searching among the crowd, and her white
lips tried to frame some words.

"All safe, Marm," sang out the big redheaded man; "and you've
got some smart chaps," thinking he'd give all the comfort, and
at once, that was in his power.

"Polly ain't just well," spoke up somebody, sympathetically, and
in a minute Mamsie was down on the grass, with Polly's head in
her lap, the other children swarming around her, and Dr. Fisher
in the midst.

"Oh, I'm so ashamed," gasped Polly, coming to, and hiding her
face on Mrs. Pepper's breast.

"Don't you feel badly, Polly child," said Mamsie, smoothing her
brown hair gently; "you're all tired out. The little brown house
is all safe--just think of that!"

Polly thrust up her head and took one look. "Mamsie," she
whispered, holding to Mrs. Pepper's neck convulsively, "God did
stop the dreadful fire, didn't He?"

"He surely did," said Mrs. Pepper, looking around on all her
little group. The neighbors and townspeople, the firemen and the
crowd, stole silently off and left them there, but Dr. Fisher
stayed.

Suddenly Joel was missing. "Where is he?" asked Mrs. Pepper, a
fresh alarm gathering on her face.

"P'r'aps he's gone with the engine," piped up the boy who had
discovered the fire, and who seemed to think it his duty to
watch that it didn't break out again.

"Oh, no, Joel wouldn't do that," said Mrs. Pepper.

"I'll find him," said little Dr. Fisher, who had his own views
about Joel, after closely regarding his singed eyebrows and
black face; "lucky enough if he doesn't need considerable
patching up," he muttered to himself, as he strode off to
reconnoitre.

"There's no use in your hiding," he said aloud, as if talking to
some one. "So you might as well come out at once, and let me
know where you're hurt, Joe, and I'll fix you before your mother
sees you."

"I ain't hurt," said a voice from the lilac bushes.

"Oh, you are not?" said the little doctor, opening the bushes to
peer within, his spectacles setting well down on the end of his
nose, so that he looked over them. "That's good," and he soon
had Joel out. "Now then, I'll fix you up as good as ever," and
he rummaged his ample pockets for the things he had thrust into
them for this very work.

"I ain't hurt," said Joel, wriggling furiously.

"Stand still, Joe," said the little doctor, coolly, "for I'm
going to patch you up, so that you're decent to see your mother.
Aren't you ashamed to get this way when Polly, poor brave girl,
has been so sick? Why, what's the matter with you!" suddenly
giving Joel a whirl, so that he could look in his face.

Joel's face was working frightfully. "I 'most--burnt--the little
brown house--up," he gasped. "I made a fire in--the stove!"




XXV

JOEL SELLS SHOES FOR MR. BEEBE


The little doctor kept a firm hold on Joel's jacket, and gazed
keenly into his face. "Um!" he said.

"I wanted--to--to--help Polly," gasped Joel. "O dear me!" He was
a sight to behold, as the tears washed their way down the grimy
face, which was still working fearfully, as he tried to hold in
his sobs.

"So you thought you'd help Polly," said Dr. Fisher, kindly; "was
that it, Joel?"

"Yes," said Joel; "she'd put the putty in, and put it in----and----"

"Put the putty in?" repeated the little doctor, aghast.

"Yes, or Ben had."

"I never in all my life heard of burning putty in a stove," said
Dr. Fisher, helplessly, and setting his big spectacles again, as
if that might possibly assist him to understand.

"Oh, she didn't burn it," cried Joel, just as much astonished.

"Well, what did she do with it, then?" demanded Dr. Fisher.
"Dear me, I always supposed a stove was meant to burn things
in," and he waved his head helplessly, and regarded Joel with a
fixed stare.

"She stuck the putty in the holes," said Joel, very distinctly;
"don't you understand? Polly's stove is very old, and it's
cracked, and she says the air comes in and then the fire goes
down, so she has to stuff up all the mean old cracks. O dear me,
I wanted to help her," and off Joel went in another gust of
tears.

"I suppose Polly feels badly over her stove, sometimes,"
reflected Dr. Fisher, casting a very sharp glance on Joel. "I
really wonder if she does," he added carelessly.

"Feels badly!" exploded Joel. Then he took a good long look
around on all sides, and leaned over to whisper in the little
doctor's ear, "_She cries sometimes, Polly does_."

"No!" exclaimed Dr. Fisher.

"Yes, she does," declared Joel, shaking his stubby head
decidedly. "She cries dreadfully when Mamsie isn't looking. And
she didn't know that I saw her, either, only I peeked behind the
pantry door. And I wanted to--to--help her." He began to cry afresh
at the recollection.

"Joel," said Dr. Fisher, getting up suddenly, "you've got to
tell your mother how the little brown house got on fire."

"I know it," said Joel, but his head drooped, and his eyes fell.

"And the best way to right the wrong is to own up at once," said
the little doctor. "I suppose she's taught you that, eh, Joel?"

"Yes, sir," said Joel.

"Well, when you've got such a mother as you have, Joel,"
continued Dr. Fisher, "you better treat her as well as you know
how. So run along, and be quick with you," and Dr. Fisher gave
him a resounding clap on the shoulder, that sent Joe flying off
like a shot from a gun, while the little doctor stole off the
back way, and got into his gig, and drove off as fast as he
could, and thus escaped being thanked.

And the Badgertown folks got together and held a meeting in Mr.
Atkins' store that very evening, and said that it was a pity
that Mrs. Pepper, who was struggling so to bring up all those
five children, should have such a hard time. So each man put his
hand in his pocket and fished out some money; and the carpenters
came next day and mended up all the holes where the axe had cut
through the roof; and the whole house was cleaned and dried where
the water had run down, and then there was one dollar and forty-five
cents left over, for people had been so very generous.

"Just keep it, Mrs. Pepper," said the spokesman, "'twill come in
handy, most likely;" and Mrs. Pepper couldn't speak, she was
so taken aback. But they didn't seem to feel as if they hadn't
been thanked enough, as they all went back again into the
village.

Ben had been working in a distant wood-lot for Deacon Blodgett,
and so hadn't heard a word of the fire until he got into the
village, on his way home. Then he said he wouldn't believe it,
unless he should see for himself. So he ran every step of the
way home, and rushed in all out of breath. "What's happened?" he
demanded of the first person he met. This happened to be Polly.

"Oh, Ben!" she exclaimed, flinging her arms around him. And then
followed all the story.

And Ben continued to blink every now and then up at the ceiling,
varied by hurrying out to gaze at the, roof, when he would rub his
eyes. "Dear me, Polly!" he would exclaim, "it seems just like an
awful dream."

"I wish it was," sighed Polly, "and I guess Joel wishes so,
too."

But the next day, when the Badgertown people came with their
gift, then the five little Peppers changed about to the very
happiest children in the world! And as soon as the visitors had
gone, the whole bunch of Peppers just took hold of hands, and
danced like wild little things around the table where the pile
of silver quarters and ten cent pieces lay.

"Mamsie," said Polly, when at last they stopped to take breath,
"did you ever know of such good people in the world as our
Badgertown folks?"

"I'm sure I didn't," declared Mrs. Pepper, wiping her eyes. "May
the Lord reward them, for I'm sure I can't."

Polly suddenly left the ring of Peppers, and came close to her
mother. "Perhaps you can, sometime, Mamsie," she said soberly.

"I hope so," replied Mother Pepper. "Well, well look forward to it,
and take the chance, if it ever comes, you may be sure, Polly."

That night, when the little brown house was as still as a mouse,
Polly heard a loud scream come pealing down from the room in the
loft. Mrs. Pepper, strange to say, didn't hear it at all; poor
woman, she was very tired with her work, from which she had been
hurried so unceremoniously when the alarm of fire reached her,
and she had lain awake all the first part of the night with a
heart burdened with anxious care.

"Joel's dreaming all about the fire, most likely," said Polly to
herself. So she slipped on Mamsie's old wrapper, picking it up
so that she would not trip and tumble on her nose, as she sped
softly over the stairs.

"Joel, hush!" she said reprovingly, "you'll wake Mamsie and
Phronsie! Ben, do make him keep still!"

"I can't," said Ben, only half awake. "Hush up there, Joe!" and
he turned over a very sleepy face, and tried to look at Polly.

"'Tisn't me," said Joel, in high dudgeon; "I ain't a 'fraid-cat."
And Polly stared to see David sitting on the edge of the
bed he shared with Joel, and tucking up his feet well under
him, while he shook with terror as he cried shrilly, "They're
running all up my legs!"

"Poor little thing!" exclaimed Polly, sitting down on the other
edge of the bed, at the risk of getting on Joel's toes. "He's
frightened," to the others. "I s'pose you've been dreaming,
Davie."

"No, no!" cried Davie, huddling up worse than ever. "There goes
one of 'em now!" he exclaimed suddenly, and pointed toward Polly;
"he's just running under Mamsie's wrapper!"

Polly hopped off the bed in her liveliest fashion, while from
under Mamsie's wrapper scuttled a black object over the bedquilt
in the opposite direction. "What is it?" she cried, beginning to
shake violently herself; "O dear me! are there any more of
them?"

"Yes," said Davie, "there are lots and lots, Polly. O dear me!"
He couldn't twist himself into a smaller knot than he was, so
there he sat, as miserable as possible, with the tears rolling
down his face.

"Joel!" cried Polly, giving that individual a little poke in the
back, as he appeared to be going off to sleep again, "you can
tell about these black things! I must know; so what is it?"

"Let me go to sleep," grunted Joel, twisting away from her
fingers.

"No," said Polly, firmly, "I shan't, Joey Pepper. What are those
black things that Davie--O dear me, there is another one!" and
Polly hopped back upon the bed, for there was a second black
creature steering straight for her in the dim light.

Joel gave a long restful sigh. "Do let me alone," he said
crossly. But Polly leaned over and shook his shoulder smartly.

"See here, now," cried Ben, roused by all this, "you just sit up
in bed, Mister Joel, and tell Polly all you know about this
business. Do you hear?" And suddenly over came Ben's pillow
flying through the air, to tumble over Joel's chubby nose.

"Nothin' to tell," declared Joel, again; but he sat up in bed.

"So you said before," said Polly; "but these black things got up
here somehow, and you know all about it, I'm sure. So you've
just got to tell all about it, Joel Pepper."

"It's crickets!" blurted Joel, suddenly, "an' Dave an' me brought 'em
to put in Ben's bed, an'--"

"Thank you," interrupted Ben, and, "Oh, Davie," reprovingly said
Polly.

"I'm sorry," said little Davie, wriggling up his toes; "I didn't
know they hopped so bad. Oh, Polly, they're all running up my
legs," he cried with another burst.

"Never mind," said Polly, quite reassured, "they're nothing but
dear, nice little crickets. I don't care, now; but it's dreadful
to see black things in the middle of the night, when you don't
know what they are."

"I don't like 'em, Polly," wailed David. "I'd rather they'd be
out of doors."

"But you helped to bring 'em in," said Polly. "How could you,
Davie?" she added reproachfully.

"Dave didn't 'xactly help," said Joel, uneasily. "I told him
he'd got to, Polly," he added honestly.

"Oh, I see," said Polly. "Well, now, Davie, you're going
downstairs to get into Mamsie's bed."

"Oh, goody!" cried Davie, smiling through his tears; and
stepping gingerly out of bed on the tips of his toes, lest he
should meet a black cricket unawares, he skipped to the head
of the stairs.

"Shake your clothes," called Polly, in a smothered voice,
fearful lest Mamsie and Phronsie should wake up. Thereupon she
began to shake the old wrapper violently. "We mustn't carry any
of 'em downstairs," she said, while Joel set up a howl.

"Oh, I don't want Dave to go downstairs and leave me," he whined.

"Yes, you can stay up here with your crickets," said Polly,
coolly, having shaken off any possibility of one remaining on
Mamsie's wrapper.

"And to-morrow morning you just step around lively and pick 'em
all up and carry 'em out doors," said Ben, before turning over
for another nap. "Good night, Polly."

"Good night, Ben," said Polly, softly, going downstairs after
Davie, who was pattering ahead, "and good night, Joey."

"Good night," snivelled Joel. "O dear me, I don't want Dave to
go. Well, anyway, he ain't goin' away ever again, Polly Pepper--so
there!"

The next morning, as soon as it was light enough to see them,
Joel picked up all his crickets. It was no easy matter, for they
made him an awful piece of work, hopping and jumping into all
the corners; and, just as soon as his thumb and fingers were on
them--away they were off again. But Ben had said every one must
go. So at it Joel kept, until the perspiration just rolled from
his tired, hot face.

"I don't like 'em, Polly," he confided, when the last one was
escorted out of doors, "and I ain't ever goin' to bring one in
again."

"I wouldn't, Joe," said Polly, "and it isn't nice to scare folks,
I think."

"I think so, too," said Phronsie, with a wise nod of her yellow
head, as she sat on the floor, playing with David.

"Think what, Phronsie?" cried Joel, suddenly.

"What Polly said," replied Phronsie, patting Seraphina, who was
being shown the pictures in a bit of old newspaper that David
was pretending to read.

"Hoh! Hoh!" cried Joel, bursting into a laugh. "You don't know
whatever you're talking about, Phron. Does she, Polly?"

"Don't tease her," said Polly; but Phronsie didn't hear, being
absorbed in correcting Seraphina, who had wobbled over on her
back instead of sitting up elegantly to view the pictures.

Joel ran down the next day to see Mrs. Beebe, Mother Pepper
giving the long-desired permission. Davie had a little sore
throat, and he much preferred to stay near Mamsie's chair.

"Now, Joe, remember to be good," warned Mother Pepper, the last
thing, when he had been washed and dressed and brushed and
declared quite prepared.

"I'm going to be always good," declared Joel. "I ain't ever
going to be like Ab'm," he added in disgust.

"Joel," reproved Mrs. Pepper, sternly, "don't judge other folks;
it's enough for you to do to look out for yourself."

Joel hung his head, abashed.

"Well, good-by," said Mrs. Pepper, the stern lines on her face
breaking into a smile.

"Good-by, Mamsie!" Joel flew back suddenly, to throw his arms
around her neck, then he rushed up to do the same thing to Polly,
and then to Phronsie.

"Don't kiss David," said his mother, "'cause you may take his
throat."

"Then I want to kiss him," cried Joel. "Mayn't I, Mammy?" he
wheedled. "I don't want Dave to have it."

"Oh, he'd have it just as much," said Mrs. Pepper, sewing away
for dear life.

"How could he?" cried Joel, in great astonishment, and standing
quite still. "Say, Mammy, how could he, if I took it?"

"You'd find if you took it there'd be quite enough sore throat
for two," answered Mrs. Pepper. "Well, run along, Joe, you
wouldn't understand, and 'tisn't necessary that you should; only
you are to do as I say, that's all."

So Joel ran off, waving a good-by to David; and since he was not
allowed to kiss him, he gave a rousing "Hooray," which delighted
little Davie greatly, as he stood, his face pressed to the
window, to see him go.

Once within Mrs. Beebe's home, it was enchantment enough. It was
a good afternoon for the shoe business, Mr. Beebe having two
customers. One of them was a very fussy woman who had a small
boy in charge. Joel was in high glee at being called upon to
help lift down ever so many boxes, until pretty near every shoe in
the stock was tried on. Mrs. Beebe kept coming out of the little
parlor at the back of the shop, and saying, "Ain't you through
with Joel yet, Pa?" all of which made Joel feel very important,
indeed, and almost decided him to keep a shoe shop, when he grew
up, instead of being a stage-coach driver.

"No," said Mr. Beebe, shortly, "I ain't through with him, Ma.
He's a master hand at getting them boxes down."

"Hain't you got a pair a little mite broader across the toes?"
asked the woman. "Stand up and stamp in 'em, Johnny." So Johnny
stood up and stamped in the new shoes.

"Real hard," said his mother. So he stamped real hard.

"I'd druther have another pair a mite broader," said the woman,
discontentedly.

"I showed you some broader ones," said old Mr. Beebe. "Well,
Joel, my boy, you'll have to climb up and hand down that box up
in the corner. P'r'aps some of those will suit."

So Joel, who wished he could be there every day in the year, and
that that woman would all the time bring in boys who wanted different
shoes from any that Mr. Beebe had, climbed up like a squirrel and
brought the box to Mr. Beebe.

"Now, Marm," said the shoe-store keeper, deftly whipping a good
roomy pair, "I guess these are about what you want," and he
laughed cheerily.

"No, they ain't either," said Johnny's mother, snappishly taking
them, and viewing them critically, "they're big as all out doors,
Mr. Beebe."

"Well, he wants 'em to wear out o' doors, don't he?" said Mr.
Beebe, "so I guess they'll suit, at last."

"Well, they won't," said the woman, "an' you needn't try 'em on,
Johnny. They're a sight bigger'n they orter be. I guess I can
tell soon's I see a shoe."

"Can't Joel come now, Pa?" asked old Mrs. Beebe, presenting her
cap-border in the doorway again. It was quite fine, with new
pink ribbons which she had put on because she had company.

"Yes, pretty soon, Ma," replied her husband, quite worn out.
"Well, I'm sure I'm sorry I can't suit you, Marm," turning to
the woman, "but I honestly can't, for I've shown you every
shoe in my shop. Here, Joel, we'll begin and pack 'em up again,"
he said, sorting the pairs out from the pile on the counter that ran
across the side of the shop, and slinging them by the string that
tied them together, over his arm.

"I'll see that pair," said the woman, suddenly, touching one as
it dangled over Mr. Beebe's arm.

"All right, Marm," said Mr. Beebe, most obligingly. So he knelt
down before Johnny again, and pulled on the shoes, and Johnny's
mother told the boy to stand up and stamp in 'em, all of which
was performed, and old Mr. Beebe got up and pulled out his
bandanna and wiped his hot face.

"Now that's somethin' like," said the woman, with a bob of her
head, while her little eyes twinkled. "I guess I know the right
shoe, as well as the next one. Why didn't you show 'em to me
before?" she snapped.

"You've had them shoes on twice before," said Mr. Beebe, "or at
least the boy has, and first they were too broad, and then they
were too narrer."

"Well, I'll take 'em, anyway, now," said the woman, laying down
the money, "and I guess I know, as well as the next one, whether
my boy's tried on shoes or not."

"Now, Joel," said old Mr. Beebe, when the little green door with
its jangling bell had really closed on her and on Johnny, "as
soon as we get these shoes back again in the boxes, you better
run into th' parler, 'cause Ma's been a-waitin' considerable."

Joel, much divided in his mind whether he would rather stay in
the shop altogether, with the delightful shoes, or go out and
spend half of the time with Mrs. Beebe and the doughnuts and
pink and white sticks he felt almost sure were waiting for him,
came to the conclusion that he really couldn't decide which was
the more delightful; and then the shop-door bell jangled again,
and there was another customer.

This time it was a little thin old man, and although he came
from another town, he seemed to be a great friend of Mr. Beebe's,
who now joyfully welcomed him.

"Well, I declare, if 'tain't Obadiah Andrews!" exclaimed the
shoe-shop keeper, radiantly, taking a good look at the newcomer.
"I haven't seen you for a week o' Sundays, Obadiah."

"Nor I hain't seen you," declared the little man, just as well
pleased, and sitting down gladly. "I'm most beat out, a-gittin'
here, so I want some new shoes, Jotham, and I cal'late I'll get
'em about as nice as they make 'em here."

"I cal'late so, too, Obadiah," said old Mr. Beebe, rubbing his
hands together in a pleased way. "Now, Joel, we'll get down all
the shoes on this side," and he ambled across the shop, "an' you
can put up the boys' sizes, afterwards, if you want to."

"Pa, ain't you most through with Joel? Oh, why, here's Mr.
Andrews!" exclaimed Mrs. Beebe. Then she came into the little
shop and sat down, while Mr. Beebe and Joel got out the shoes
that were to be tried on. "It's so nice that I can pass the time
o' day with you, meanwhilst," she observed.

But it didn't take very long to satisfy old Mr. Andrews. As soon
as the first shoe was pulled on he declared it was just right,
although the shoe-shop keeper offered to try on the others.

"P'r'aps these'll pinch when you get home," suggested Mr. Beebe,
anxiously, "or somethin' else as bad will be the matter with
'em." But the little old man said, "No; do 'em up, Jotham."

So the shoes were rolled in paper, and tied with a red string,
and then Mr. Obadiah Andrews said, "Now I'm a-goin' to set an'
visit, and pass the time o' day with you, Jotham."

"So do," cried old Mr. Beebe, delightedly, counting out the
change. "Now, Joel, you can pile all them shoes back, and then
finish the boys' sizes, if you want to; and after that, Ma, he
can go into the parlor, and be company to you."

When Mrs. Beebe and Joel finally got into the parlor, leaving
the two old friends talking busily, there only remained ten
minutes before it was time to go home.

"O dear me!" exclaimed old Mrs. Beebe, quite aghast, as she
glanced at the clock. "Well, you must obey your Ma, and the only
thing I see out of it is, you must come again." So she stuffed
into a paper bag all the pink and white sticks and doughnuts
that were piled so nicely, in a company fashion, on a blue plate.
"There," she said, smothering her disappointment as best she
could, "take these home with you, and tell your Ma I expect you
again, some day. We can't help it, 'cause Pa's been so busy,"
as Joel ran off.

"I've sold shoes all the afternoon," he screamed, rushing into
the little brown house, and for a moment forgetting the paper
bag and its precious contents. Then it came ever him in a burst.
"Look at this!" swinging it over Polly's brown head. She bobbed
it up suddenly. "Look out!" screamed Joel, but too late; Polly's
brown head bumped into the bag, and away it spun, and the
doughnuts and pink and white sticks went flying all over the
kitchen floor.

"Now, that's too bad," cried Polly, jumping up to help pick them
up. "Oh, Joel, what a perfectly splendid lot!"

"Ain't it!" said Joel, his mouth watering to begin on them.
"Here's one more," spying a pink stick behind Mamsie's chair.
"Here 'tis. I've got it!" emerging in triumph, and holding it
fast. "Where's Phronsie and Dave?"

"Over at Grandma's," said Polly.

"O dear!" began Joel, then he thought a minute. "I'm going to
take Grandma a doughnut, Polly," he cried, dancing off, and
swinging the bag, into which he had crammed all the "goodies."

He heard Phronsie singing to Grandma, which she was very fond of
doing, and perched up on the side of the bed, Grandma smiling
away, as well pleased as though she heard every word.

"Dave," screamed Joel, bounding in, and swinging the bag, "you
don't know what I've got," and he hopped up on the bed between
Grandma and Phronsie.

When Davie saw that, he got out of his chair and speedily hopped
up on the bed, too. Grandma laughed till the tears rolled down
her cheeks.

"I guess you'll laugh more yet, Grandma," declared Joel,
untwisting the top of his bag, and bringing a pair of bright
black eyes very close to it to peer within. "It's perfectly
splendid!" he cried, holding his hands so no one else could see.

"Oh, Joey, do show us!" cried Phronsie, getting up to kneel on
the patched bedquilt, to look over his arm.

"You may take one peek," decided Joel, suddenly, bringing his
eyes away from the mouth of the bag to gaze at them. "Grandma
must have the first one; then you must guess what it is."

"I guess it's doughnuts," said little Davie, "'cause you've been
to Mrs. Beebe's, and besides, I smell 'em." Grandma smiled all
the time, just as happily as if she had heard everything that
had been said.

"There's something else," said Joel, emphatically, "but 'tisn't
your guess. Now, Grandma," he held the bag close up to the old
lady's cap-border, "look!"

"My!" exclaimed the old lady. "What you got, Joel?" as he
twitched away the bag.

"Didn't you see?" cried Joel; "well, you may have one more peek,
'cause you are Grandma," and he brought it up again before her
eyes.

"Doughnuts?" said Grandma. "My sakes! where'd you get 'em?"

"You may have one," said Joel, peering into the depths of the
bag to fish out a good-sized one, that was sugary all over,
which he dropped in her hands.

"Give me one," begged Phronsie, holding out both hands.

"In a minute," said Joel. "Now, Grandma, what else is in here?"
giving the bag a shake.

"Hey?" asked Grandma; "speak louder, Joel."

"O dear me! I can't speak so's she'll hear," said Joel, in
despair, to the others. So he shook the bag again, when the
bottom of it came out, and away the doughnuts and pink and white
sticks flew, and rolled all over the patched bed-quilt.

"There, now," said Joel, in disgust; "there isn't any use in
anybody's guessing anything. But we can eat 'em now," he added,
brightening.




XXVI

MISS PARROTT'S COACH AND THE COASTING


It was snowing tiny flakes when Joel's eyes popped open, and
the small, feathery things whirled against the little paned
window, as if they would very much like to come in.

"Dave--Dave!" cried Joel, poking him, "get up--it's snowing!"

David's eyes flew quite wide at that, and he sat up at once. "Oh,
Joel," he squealed, as he watched the flakes, "ain't they
pretty!"

"Um! I guess so," said Joel, springing into his clothes;
"they're nice for snowballs and to slide on, anyway."

David reached over for one blue woollen stocking on the floor by
the side of the bed, and sat quite still with it in his hand,
regarding the snowy whirl.

"You ain't got dressed a bit," cried Joel, spinning around, "and
I'm all ready."

"So will I be all ready," cried little David, pulling on the
stocking with all haste, and flying at the rest of his clothes with
alacrity. "Wait, Joe--do," as Joel began to clatter downstairs.

"Can't," said Joel, racing off, "I'm going to get the sled."

"Wa-it," called Davie, half crying.

But Joel was in the woodshed, hauling out the precious sled that
Ben had made for the boys out of some boards and old sleigh
runners that had been given him. He was dragging it out with a
dreadful noise from the corner where it had stayed all summer,
when Polly came running out.

"I don't believe it's going to snow much," she said, squinting
at the feathery specks. "You won't want your sled to-day, boys."

"I'm goin' to have it ready," said Joel, with another pull.

"Well, I'll help you," said Polly, taking hold of one end. "Dear
me, I do think this is the most splendid sled in all the world,"
she exclaimed enthusiastically. "I don't see how Ben could make
it so nice."

"Ben can do anything," declared Joel, tugging away.

"I know it," said Polly, with pride. "Well, I wish he had time
to go coasting all he wants to," she added sorrowfully.

"Maybe he will have, this winter," suggested Joel, who never
could bear to see Polly sad.

"P'r'aps," said Polly; "but there's always wood to chop in the
winter, Joe. There--here it comes!" as the big sled tumbled out
with a rush, to be dragged into the middle of the woodshed floor.

David now came running downstairs, and Phronsie, hearing that
the sled was to be drawn out, pattered into the woodshed, too.
"Oh, Polly," she cried in rapture, "now I'm going out to ride on
it this very minute," and she danced round and round, clapping
her hands in glee.

"O dear me!" cried Polly, pointing out of the little low window.
"See, Phronsie, there's only the leastest little bit of snow.
Why, I do verily b'lieve it's going to stop."

At this dreadful suggestion, every one of the little Peppers in
the woodshed rushed to the window, and Joel flung wide the door,
so that a cold blast, carrying a feathery cloud of little flakes,
swept in.

"Oh, Joel!" exclaimed Polly, "shut the door, Phronsie'll catch
cold." Joel was already out in the house-place, dancing about,
declaring it was going to be awful deep, and they could make a
snow man soon, he guessed; so little Davie ran and pushed to the
door, shutting off all chance of hearing the rest of what he was
saying. He was gone some time, and the others ran into the
kitchen, for Polly declared they would get no breakfast that day
if she did not hurry up, and David and Phronsie thought it much
nicer to watch the snowstorm from those windows than from the
little tucked-up window in the woodshed. The consequence was
that Joel ran in just as they had begun breakfast, in a fine
glow, his cheeks very red, and his chubby nose as well. "Why
didn't you come?" he demanded, with sparkling eyes.

"Where?" cried Polly. "Oh, Joe, what have you been doing? Your
face is as red as fire."

"And your nose is red, too," said David.

"I don't care," said Joel, slipping into his seat. "Give me some
mush, Polly, do!" he begged hungrily, passing his bowl. "Oh,
'twas just prime, I tell you!"

"What?" asked Polly, quickly. "You keep saying it's fine, and
don't tell us what you've been doing. That isn't polite," she
added, for Polly was quite particular as to her manners, and
liked to be very genteel before the other children.

"Oh, I've been riding in Miss Parrott's coach," said Joel,
trying to appear as if this were an everyday occurrence, and
eating on as if nothing had happened. Miss Parrott lived in an
old ancestral house, about two miles from Badgertown. She was
very rich, but kept entirely to herself, and drove about in an
ancient coach, the envy of all the villagers. "And I called you
all to come, and you wouldn't."

"Oh, Joel Pepper!" cried Polly, greatly shocked to think of the
splendid chance they all had missed, and dropping the big spoon
with which she was serving the mush, "you never called us one
single bit!"

"No, you never did!" added David, solemnly, and looking at Polly
with all his eyes.

"Never did!" echoed Phronsie, shaking her yellow head positively.
"Polly, I want some more mush, I do."

"Yes, I did, too," spoke up Joel, loudly.

"Joel!" reproved Mother Pepper.

"Well, I did, Mamsie," repeated Joel, in a very injured tone. "I
called just like this, 'come quick! and ride in Miss Parrott's
coach;' so there!"

"O dear me!" cried Polly, passionately, sitting back in her
chair, "I'd rather have gone in that coach than have done
anything else, and now you've been, and we never'll get a chance
again. Never in all this world!"

"How did it happen, Joel?" asked Ben. "Do tell the whole story
from the beginning."

"Why, you see it was this way," began Joel. "Polly, give me some
more mush, do," passing his bowl.

"O dear me, do tell first, Joe," cried Polly, impatiently. "I
don't know where the spoon is," for the big spoon had tumbled
off to the floor, and she hadn't seen it go in the excitement.

"Joel, get a clean one," said Mrs. Pepper, "and then pick up the
other; it's likely it fell down."

So Joel hopped out of his chair and got a clean spoon for Polly,
and then dived under the table and came back with the other
spoon. "Now begin and tell us all about it," said his mother.
"No, Polly, you needn't help him the mush till he's told."

So Joel, seeing he wasn't to get the mush until the whole story
how he got his ride in the Parrott coach was related, began at
once, and rattled it off as fast as he could. "The--man--that--
drives--it--stopped--an'--I--was--in--th'--yard--an'--he--said--
don't--you--wanter--all--hands--o'--you children--to drive--
I've--got--to drive a--piece--down th'--road--an' I--called--
and--called--you--an'--we--went--an'--that's all. Now give me
some mush!"

"If we only had known!" mourned Polly, clasping her hands. "Is
it lined with green satin, Joel?" she asked suddenly.

"I don't understand," said Mrs. Pepper, in a puzzled way. "Where
were you, Joel, when Miss Parrott's man asked you? And you
didn't go bareheaded, and without your coat?"

"Out in the yard, Mamsie," answered Joel. "Polly, do give me
some mush," for Polly was so absorbed waiting to hear if Miss
Parrott's coach was really lined with green satin, that she had
forgotten all about Joe and his breakfast. So now she hastily
dipped out the mush into the bowl that was waiting for it. "Is it
really lined with green satin, Joel?" she cried breathlessly.

"I don't know," said Joel, all his attention upon his bowl of
mush.

"I most know it is," said Polly, leaning her elbows on the table,
and her head upon her hands, to think how it would really seem
to be riding in a coach lined with green satin.

"And now I never shall go," she ended.

"Why didn't you come back for us?" asked David, suddenly. He
hadn't eaten anything since Joel had rushed in with the
wonderful story, and between Polly's disappointment and his own,
was in a great state of distress.

"Oh, I thought you were coming right off," said Joel, swallowing
rapid mouthfuls; "and then, when I got into the coach, the man
that drives Miss Parrott said he couldn't wait no longer."

"Any longer, you mean," corrected Mrs. Pepper.

"Yes'm," said Joel; "and then we drove off."

"You see, we had to shut the door to the woodshed," said Polly,
"'cause Phronsie would catch cold if we didn't, and we didn't
hear a single word when you called, Joel Pepper; not a single
one!"

"Where'd you go?" asked David, suddenly.

"Oh, down to the Centre," said Joel, "to two--no, I guess four stores,
and then he brought me home--that is, almost home. He dropped
me at the corner."

"O dear me!" exclaimed Polly.

"Oh, jolly! look at the snow!" screamed Joel, flying out of his
chair. And sure enough, while they had been so engrossed, there
it had been coming down faster and faster, until it was a
powdery veil, almost too thick to see through.

So somewhere in the middle of the morning, Joel and David
started off with their sled, drawing on their mittens with the
greatest satisfaction, and bobbing good-by to the others
watching them from the windows.

All went well, until Joe proposed that they should go to Simon's
Hill, a long steep thoroughfare some two miles distant, that
swung at the bottom very abruptly into the turnpike. And
trudging off there, they climbed it with despatch, and began to
coast down.

"Oh, whickets!" cried Joel, who was steering, little Davie hanging
on behind, more than three-quarters afraid, though he wouldn't let
Joel see it for all the world. "Gee-haw-gee-haw-whee-dimp-dump,"
as they flew over the rises, bumping and twisting from side to side.

[Illustration: "GEE-HAW-GEE-HAW-WHEE-DIMP-DUMP"]

"Oh, take care, Joe," screamed David, in terror, "we most went
over," for on one side the road ran down abruptly into a thicket
of evergreen and scrub oaks.

"Hoh, we're going straight!" sang out Joel, "you're always such
a 'fraid-cat, David Pepper."

"I ain't a 'fraid-cat," protested Davie, "and I want to go home
to mother."

"Well, you are going down again, eleven, no, I guess sixty
times," declared Joel, "after this. Gee-whiz-bump-bump-bang!"
This last was brought out of him by a sudden slewing to the side,
where the slope ran off to the evergreen, scrub oak thicket; but
Joel missed the edge by about an inch, so he screamed with
delight, and whizzed safely down the rest of the hill.

"I ain't going down ever again," said David, "not once, Joel,"
as they flew along and the cold air swept his pale cheeks.

Just then, along the turnpike toward the abrupt turn of the
hill-road, was coming an ox-pung, loaded with wood, and driven
by old Farmer Seeley, who was almost as blind as a bat and deaf
as a post.

"Hi!" screamed Joel, whizzing along. "See us come down," but
Farmer Seeley neither saw nor heard, and just then he concluded
to steer his team up as near as possible to the hill-road. Joel
saw this, and yelled, but he might as well have screamed to the
hill. It was all done in a moment. Down flew the clumsy home-made
sled, that couldn't be turned in a second; Joel frantically
steering to get past the big awkward team, that was blocking up
the way, David clinging to him in a dumb helpless terror.
Z-z-rr-thud! and the first thing that old Farmer Seeley knew, four
small arms and legs were waving frantically in the air, and
thrown suddenly, with a mixture of boards and runners, against
the ox-team of wood, with an awful crash; and then all was still.

"Land o' Goshen!" ejaculated Farmer Seeley, at the crash.
"What's that 'ere? O my gracious Peters!" as he saw what it was
as well as he was able, for his poor eyes. And getting off from
the team he went to the spot, shaking so in every limb, that he
could hardly walk.

There was no sound beneath the upturned sled, where it lay just
as it had been thrown against the wood-pung, and for one dreadful
moment Farmer Seeley thought the two boys to whom the small legs
and arms belonged were dead, and he shook so his false teeth rattled
in his head, and he sat right down in the snow.

"I must dig 'em out," he said to himself in a cold fright, "for
they've druv their heads clean into the snow, and they may get
stuffocated, if they ain't already dead."

So he did the best he could in that work, proceeding only a
little way, when Joel bounced up suddenly, shook his black hair,
and rubbed his eyes. "Oh, I remember," he said.

"Now, see here--you boy," screamed old Farmer Seeley, angrily,
"I'll have you took up, whoever ye be, a-runnin' into my ox-team,
an' a-buntin' into my wood. Um--I will!"

"Get Dave out," cried Joel, who cared very little for whatever
the old man might say, and pawing the snow wildly. "Help me get
Dave out."

"I can't help none," said the old man, querulously. "I'm stiff
in th' jints, an' beside, you've scart me to death, eenamost."

"Oh--oh!" screamed Joel, in a frightful panic. "Dave--get up,
Dave!"

But David lay like a little log of wood, as still as those on
the old pung.




XXVII

PRINCES AND PRINCESSES


"Polly," said Mrs. Pepper, "don't worry any more about the boys
not coming home; just keep the potatoes hot in the oven." For
Polly had run to the window about a dozen times, wondering where
they could be, and why they didn't come back for dinner.

"They are having a nice time, somewhere, bless their hearts,"
said Mrs. Pepper, with a smile. "I'm so glad the snow has come
early, for they've been longing for it so much." She hadn't felt
so happy and contented for a good while, for besides rejoicing
in her boys' pleasure, Mr. Atkins had given her this very
morning an order to knit as many mittens as she could, and she
even caught herself humming a little tune.

Polly heard her, and ran over to her side. "Oh, Mamsie Pepper!"
she exclaimed, "do sing it," and she threw her arms around her
neck.

"I can't sing now," said Mother Pepper, a little flush coming on
her cheek, "and besides, I don't need to, with you, Polly," and
she smiled fondly on her.

"I'll stop, Mamsie--if you'll only sing to us more," cried Polly.

"Then I never should sing, Polly," declared Mother Pepper, with
a little laugh. "I shouldn't know what to do, child, if I didn't
hear you singing round."

"Shouldn't you, Mammy?" asked Polly, much gratified, and curling
down into a little ball at her mother's feet.

"No, dear, I shouldn't." Mrs. Pepper stopped her work long
enough to lay her hand caressingly on Polly's brown hair. "Why,
it wouldn't seem like the little brown house at all, Polly, and
I don't know what we should any of us do, if you stopped it."

"Then I'll sing always for you, Mamsie," said Polly; "I truly
will."

"So do, child. Well, I must hurry along, or I shan't get time to
begin on those mittens. And just think, Polly, Mr. Atkins has
promised to let me knit as many pairs as I can."

"Mamsie," said Polly, suddenly, and hopping to her feet, "won't
you teach me to knit, and then I can help you."

"Yes," said Mrs. Pepper; "for it's good for you to know how. But
I shan't be willing to have you help me any more than you do now.
I wish you didn't have to work so hard, child," and an anxious
cloud overspread the brightness on Mother Pepper's face.

"Oh, I'm not going to work too hard," cried Polly, with happy
throbs at her mother's words. And she dashed off to her
interrupted work, and Mrs. Pepper smiled, as presently Polly
began to sing so merrily that Phronsie set up a little song,
till the old kitchen was the cosiest place possible. At last, in
a lull, Mother Pepper called, "Polly, what is this stopping at
the gate? Tell him we don't want any," as she saw it was a load
of wood.

Polly ran to the door, and was beginning to say, "We don't want
any wood," when her face turned very white, and she ran over the
snow on unsteady feet. "Oh, Joel, what is it?" throwing her arms
around him. But before he could answer, there was Mrs. Pepper
close behind her.

They lifted Davie down from the pile of wood, where they had
made him as comfortable as possible, Farmer Seeley and Joel;
the old man tried to tell that "'Twarn't none o' my fault. Th' boys
ran into me," but Joel, for the first time in his life, was without words.

"Mamsie, don't feel badly," said little Davie, putting up his
face to be kissed, as her arms received him. Joel flew to Polly
for comfort.

"And Mr. Seeley's nice," said David, who had found out the old
farmer's name on the long, slow, homeward journey, and now
seemed afraid he might be blamed, and not thanked enough.

The old farmer, not hearing this, or indeed much of the talk,
kept saying at intervals, "'Twarn't my fault. I ain't to blame,"
till Mrs. Pepper carried David into the little brown house, and
the others, following mournfully enough, the door was shut.

David was laid up with a sprained ankle, that was all, after the
upset. But Joel found it dismal enough to play out in the snow
alone, and he kept pretty close to the window, so that he could
look up and sing out once in a while to Dave seated by it in
Mamsie's big rocking chair. And pretty soon, one day, Ben
brought Davie out, all bundled up, and set him carefully on the
big sled.

"There you are!" cried Ben, depositing his burden, "as fine as
can be," all the rest of the family flocking around to tuck
David in tighter, and to pull his tippet closer, and to be sure
that he had his mittens on.

"Don't go very far, Joe," cautioned Mrs. Pepper.

"I won't, Mamsie," said Joe, proudly enough, marching off, while
the big sled, with Davie sitting upon it as happy as a king,
came sliding along behind.

"Hooray!" cried a harsh voice, when they had proceeded in this
way for a good distance down the road, David joyfully exclaiming
every minute, "Oh, Joey, it's so good to get out doors again."

"Hooray!" screamed the voice again, and Joel, staring as hard as
he could, saw two boys pop up from behind a stone wall, and come
rushing down toward him, each with a large snowball in his hand.
And the next thing, the snowballs flew through the air, and one
hit David in the neck, and burst all over his tippet. Joel
didn't care that the other one gave him a whack on the head.

"You stop that!" commanded Joel, with a face as red as fire.
"Don't you hit Dave again," and his black eyes flashed.

"We're bigger'n you," sneered one boy, and he picked up some
more snow, and began to roll it into a hard ball.

"No, you ain't, either," contradicted Joel, who never would
acknowledge any one to be bigger than himself. "And you let Dave
alone, I say."

"We're going to push him off th' sled," said the other boy, with
a dreadful grin.

At this Joel looked all around in despair for a moment to see if
any one was coming who would help. "Davie's ankle. O dear me!"
he thought. So he got between the sled and the biggest boy. "You
let him alone!" he cried sturdily, setting his teeth tight
together.

"Hoh--hoh--'fraid-cat--'fraid-cat!" laughed both boys, hopping
about in glee, and singing over and over, '"Fraid-cat--'fraid-cat!"

Joel clenched his little brown hands together tightly. It was
hard work not to fly at them and pommel away. "But Davie's
ankle--dear--dear!" So he held his breath and kept still.

Suddenly both boys made a rush at David, meaning to make him
eat snow and have one ball thrust down his back at one and the
same time, but Joel was too quick for them, and the first thing
they knew, as David gave a scream at their approach, two hard
little fists were pommelling them to right and left.

"Stop it!" they cried. But Joel didn't know how to stop; he
pounded away so much and so fast, and they didn't exactly seem
to know where he was going to strike next, that in a few minutes
both boys were crying as hard as they could.

"'Fraid-cat! 'Fraid-cat!" sang Joel, dancing around them, and
swinging his fists in the liveliest fashion.

"Joel Pepper!" exclaimed a voice, suddenly, that made all the
boys skip, while little Davie shook in much worse apprehension
than he did before. "Fighting in the public road! Well, I never
heard anything so dreadful!"

Joel whirled around, his fists still ready. "I ain't fighting,"
he denied stoutly. It was Miss Jerusha, Parson Henderson's
sister.

"And it's bad enough to fight, without telling a lie about it,"
said Miss Jerusha, holding up her black gloves in horror. "I
ain't fighting. And I didn't tell a lie," declared Joel. "And
you mustn't say so," he added, advancing on her with blazing
eyes.

Miss Jerusha retreated. "You're a very bad boy," she said tartly,
"and I shall have no more to say to you."

"You must say I don't tell a lie," insisted Joel with unpleasant
firmness, and throwing his head back.

"What are you doing, if you're not fighting?" began Miss Jerusha,
loudly; "pray tell."

Joel was just going to say, "They were going to hurt Davie,"
when, before he could get the words out, Polly was seen running
down the road toward them all, her hood flying back on her
shoulders.

"Oh, Joel, what _do_ you think--" she began, when she saw
the two boys, and, worst of all, Miss Jerusha; then she came to
a dead stop.

"Where are your manners?" snapped that lady, wanting to scold
some one. "I'm sure when I was a girl I was pretty spoken, when
I met people."

"How do you do, Miss Jerusha?" asked Polly. Then she couldn't
help regarding the two boys with wide-eyed astonishment; they
dug the toes of their shoes in the snow, and wouldn't look at her.

"She says I told her a lie," blurted Joel, not taking his
blazing eyes from Miss Jerusha's face.

"O dear me!" exclaimed Polly, in the greatest distress. "Joel
couldn't tell a lie, Marm; he never did."

Joel flung his black head higher, but he didn't take his eyes
from Miss Jerusha's face.

"I'm sure I don't know nor care whether he did or not," retorted
Miss Jerusha, shrilly. "And you're very pert, Polly Pepper, to
set yourself up against your elders. When I was a little girl I
never contradicted folks. Never in all the world! What is your
mother thinking of, to bring you up in this way?" And she held
up her black gloves again.

"Polly," called little Davie, where he had been crouching
timidly in the middle of the big sled, "can't we go home?"

"Yes," said Polly, hoarsely. "Joel, come home with me this
minute; don't say another word, Mamsie wouldn't like it," she
commanded. She seized the rope, and Joel, removing his eyes with
the greatest difficulty from Miss Jerusha's face, grasped it, too,
and the little Peppers went as swiftly as they could go, back
home to Mamsie, leaving the other three in the middle of the road.

"O dear!" gasped Polly, as they ran on. Then, "Joel, if we can
only get to Mamsie," while back on the sled Davie trembled with
delight at the very thought.

In front of the little brown house stood a big comfortable
sleigh of the old-fashioned pattern. Although it had once been
very handsome, it was now faded and ancient. A man who almost
looked as if he had gone into service along with the sleigh and
the other belongings of his mistress, sat primly upon the front
seat. He expressed as much pleasure at seeing the little Peppers
coming, as his stoical countenance would allow, but he didn't
move a muscle of face or figure. At any other time Joel would
have howled with delight at seeing Miss Parrott's man sitting
there before the house, and in a sleigh. And it wouldn't have
been a minute before he would have been in that sleigh, and on
that front seat, besieging that stiff figure to let him drive.
But now Joel flew by, dropping the rope, and rushed into the
house, and Polly was left to drag David to the door, and call to
Mamsie to help lift him off. But she stopped to say to Miss
Parrott's man, "I must stop to speak to Mamsie, first, if you
please."

Miss Parrott's man so far forgot the ancient usage of his years
that he rubbed his eyes as Polly turned away, and then he turned
and continued to gaze at her as long as she was to be seen. For
he really could not believe that it was the same little girl who
had danced down the road, with sparkling eyes and rosy cheeks,
and he even glanced nervously around, the more he thought about
it.

"Mamsie!" cried Joel, hoarsely, flinging himself into Mother
Pepper's arms, as she came to the door to meet him, her face
beaming with happiness at the realization that Miss Parrott's
sleigh actually was waiting at the door to take her little ones
for a sleigh-ride, "Mamsie! Miss Jerusha says I told a lie. Did
I, Mammy?" and Joel clutched her and broke into a torrent of
tears.

And then Polly got there, and Davie was lifted off the sled and
carried into the house, and among all three of them the story
was out.

And there was Miss Parrott's man sitting stiffly on the front
seat of the sleigh, only his head was turned, and his eyes were
staring like all possessed at the little brown house.

"Now, Polly," said Mrs. Pepper, when there was no more to tell,
and the children gazed at her in amazement to see her so
cheerful, "you just get yourself ready, as soon as ever you can.
Wash your face good, and your eyes, and I'll spring to, and help
Joey and Davie. Phronsie's all ready." Indeed, she was, and
sitting patiently on her little cricket all this time, her small
mittened hands folded in her lap. To Phronsie, every bit of the
fuss of getting ready for a trip was always as much of a delight
as the expedition itself, and was enjoyed with grave pleasure.

"And, dear me!" continued Mother Pepper, in her briskest fashion,
all the while she was washing and patting and pulling the two
boys into just the right condition for such a grand occasion as
this, "there is Miss Parrott's man waiting out there all this
time! Now see how good you can stand still, Joey, and then we'll
be as quick as we can be." And pretty soon they were all ready,
and Joel's swollen nose and red eyes didn't look so very much
as if he had been crying, and Polly's face showed very little trace,
after all, that she had been crying, too. So they all went down to the
gate, Mother Pepper and Polly and Joel carrying David, and
Phronsie walking gravely behind.

"I am very sorry," said Mother Pepper to Miss Parrott's man,
still immovably staring at them, "to keep you waiting. It is not
my children's fault, I should say that." Then she helped them in,
and tucked the big fur robes all nicely around the three on the
back seat. Joel, of course, was by this time snugly settled on
the front seat.

"Now, children," said Mrs. Pepper, regarding them for a moment,
and standing quite still by the roadside, "you are to have the
very nicest time you ever had in all your lives. Remember!" and
she smiled at them, and all the sunbeams that ever shone seemed
to hop right down into their hearts. Miss Parrott's man solemnly
gathered up the reins tighter in his hands, and touched the
horses with the whip with the same dignity, and off they went.

Mrs. Pepper watched the big sleigh till she couldn't see a speck
of it; then she turned and went into the house, took down her
Sunday bonnet and shawl, for this was to be a call of importance,
and soon she had left the little brown house, and was walking
rapidly over the snowy road to the minister's house.

"I must get it over with as soon as I can, and be home before
they get back," she said to herself, going swiftly on.

It wasn't two minutes before Joel was laughing gayly, and
bobbing around with an important air on that front seat to the
others on the back seat, and Polly found herself tossing scraps
of nonsense back at him and the two others, and little Davie
smiled happily. As for Phronsie, she sat wedged in between the
other two, her little mittens folded in her lap, in grave
satisfaction. Miss Parrott's man drew a long breath when all
this was accomplished, and the only word he said for the first
two miles was, "I guess you're all right _now_."

Where they went, no one of the four little Peppers could have
told. It all seemed like Fairyland, a great enchanted space of
winding snowy roads, dazzling in the morning sunlight of a
perfect winter day; every little crystal sparkling away on a
pine tree, where it had to melt away, seemed to come out and
wink at them, as the stately horses bore them along. All the fields
sleeping under their soft, white blankets, were new to the Peppers
gliding by. That surely was not Deacon Brown's field, where they
used to race across lots, on a summer day! And as for that being
Mr. Blodgett's meadow--why! no one need ever tell them so; it
was enchanted ground, and they were princes and princesses
whirling by in their chariots.

"Let's play so," cried Polly, suddenly, and leaning back against
the padded cushion, feeling very glad indeed.

"What, Polly!" cried Joel, wheeling around, at the imminent
danger of tumbling out backward, and astonished that Polly
should want to play anything when they were enveloped with such
richness of enjoyment.

"Oh, that we were princesses and princes," answered Polly, with
a grand air, "and we were riding through our kingdom in a big
chariot."

"Oh, yes, let's--let's!" screamed Joel, "and I'm the biggest
prince," he announced, with another shout. "I wished I had a
feather in my cap," he added ruefully, remembering the splendid
one that Grandma Bascom's rooster had furnished for a former occasion,
when Polly decked him out a prince, and that was tucked away in
his box of treasures in the woodshed,--"O dear! if I'd only
brought it!"

"But we haven't got our things," said Polly, quickly, "so you
must just play it, Joel. That's as good as having the feather."

"I think it's heaven," said little Davie, with a long breath,
hanging out as far as he could over his side of the back seat.
"Polly, isn't it?"

"Yes, dear," said Polly, leaning past Phronsie to drop him a
kiss, which, by reason of the big sleigh going just then over a
hump of frozen snow, fell on the tip of his nose. This made him
laugh, and then Polly laughed, and Phronsie came out of her
grave delight, to gurgle her amusement; and Joel, hearing them
all have such a funny time back there, bobbed around again, and
_he_ laughed, though he never found out what it was all about.

And Miss Parrott's man learned more about princesses and princes
and golden chariots and Fairyland and enchanted things and
places in general than he ever heard in his life before, and when
at last they glided into Badgertown Centre, it really seemed as if
the cup of happiness would overflow.

"Polly," cried little David, his cheeks aflame under his woollen
cap that was drawn close around his ears, and sitting quite
erect as a prince should, "the people are all coming out to meet
us--the queen and king have sent us to do the errands; haven't
they, Polly?"

"Yes," cried Polly, delighted at the idea. "Oh, let's play
that!" So the four little Peppers drove down Badgertown main
street, where all the shops were, and old Mr. Beebe happened to
be standing by his little window watching for customers. "Ma--Ma!"
he screamed, "here's the Pepperses goin' by in a sleigh; it's Miss
Parrottses, I do declare."

And Mrs. Beebe, stopping to put on her best cap with the pink
ribbons before she ran out from the little parlor back of the
shop, of course didn't get there till long after the triumphal
procession was over. And of all the people who stared and
rejoiced in their happiness,--for there wasn't one who saw them
who didn't feel glad, down to the tips of the fingers and toes,
that the Peppers were going a-pleasuring,--no one of them all
suspected that it was a chariot load of princes and princesses
gliding by.

At last it was all over, and the golden chariot paused before
the little brown house. Polly and Joel carried David over the
snowy path, while Phronsie ran ahead like a mad little thing.
And so they all rushed in, royalty dropping off at the old flat
door stone.

"We've been princes," cried Joel, as Polly set Davie down, and
stamping the snow, gathered on the royal rush over the yard,
from his feet, "and I was the biggest prince."

"I was the best," declared David, twitching off his cap that had
gotten knocked over his eyes in the scramble to carry him in.
"Mamsie, I truly was."

"Oh, Mamsie!" cried Polly, dancing around the kitchen on happy
feet, her eyes glowing like stars, "it was perfectly gorgeous!"
for Polly dearly loved fine words, and she thought nothing could
be too grand for this occasion.

"And I was a princess," piped Phronsie, crowding up to hold fast
to her mother's gown. "I truly was, Mamsie. Polly said so."

"So you were," declared Mamsie, smiling happily on her whole
brood; "but then, you mustn't ever forget, children, that it's
well enough to be princes and princesses once in a while, but
you're my little brown house people every day."





End of Project Gutenberg's The Adventures of Joel Pepper, by Margaret Sidney





Produced by Distributed Proofreaders




THE AUGUSTAN REPRINT SOCIETY


SAMUEL JOHNSON

_Notes to Shakespeare_

Vol. I

Comedies

Edited, with an Introduction, by Arthur Sherbo


GENERAL EDITORS

RICHARD C. BOYS, _University of Michigan_
RALPH COHEN, _University of California, Los Angeles_
VINTON A. DEARING, _University of California, Los Angeles_
LAWRENCE CLARK POWELL, _Clark Memorial Library_
ASSISTANT EDITOR
W. EARL BRITTON, _University of Michigan_
ADVISORY EDITORS
EMMETT L. AVERY, _State College of Washington_
BENJAMIN BOYCE, _Duke University_
LOUIS BREDVOLD, _University of Michigan_
JOHN BUTT, _King's College, University of Durham_
JAMES L. CLIFFORD, _Columbia University_
ARTHUR FRIEDMAN, _University of Chicago_
EDWARD NILES HOOKER, _University of California, Los Angeles_
LOUIS A. LANDA, _Princeton University_
SAMUEL H. MONK, _University of Minnesota_
ERNEST C. MOSSNER, _University of Texas_
JAMES SUTHERLAND, _University College; London_
H. T. SWEDENBERG, JR., _University of California, Los Angeles_
CORRESPONDING SECRETARY
EDNA C. DAVIS, _Clark Memorial Library_



GENERAL INTRODUCTION

Dr. Johnson's Preface to Shakespeare is one of the most famous critical
essays of the eighteenth century, and yet too many students have
forgotten that it is, precisely, a preface to the plays of Shakespeare,
edited by Dr. Johnson himself. That is to say, the edition itself has
been obscured or overshadowed by its preface, and the sustained effort
of that essay has virtually monopolized scholarly attention--much of
which should be directed to the commentary. Johnson's love for
Shakespeare's plays is well known; nowhere is this more manifest than in
his notes on them. And it is on the notes that his claim to remembrance
as a critic of Shakespeare must rest, for the famous Preface is, after
all, only rarely an original and personal statement.

The idea of editing Shakespeare's plays had attracted Johnson early, and
in 1745 he issued proposals for an edition. Forced to give up the
project because of copyright difficulties, he returned to it again in
1756 with another, much fuller set of proposals. Between 1745 and 1756
he had completed the great _Dictionary_ and could advance his
lexicographical labors as an invaluable aid in the explication of
Shakespeare.  Although he had promised speedy publication, "on or before
Christmas 1757," Johnson's public had to wait until Oct. 10, 1765 for
the Shakespeare edition to appear. The first edition, largely subscribed
for, was soon exhausted, and a second edition was ready the very next
month. A third edition was published in 1768, but there were no
revisions in the notes in either of these editions. At some time after
February 1, 1766, the date of George Steevens' own proposals for an
edition of Shakespeare, and before March 21, 1770 when Johnson wrote to
Richard Farmer for some assistance in the edition (_Life_, II, 114),
Johnson decided to join forces with Steevens. The result was, of course,
the so-called 1773 Johnson-Steevens variorum from which the notes in
this reprint are taken. A second Johnson-Steevens variorum appeared in
1778, but Johnson's part in this was negligible, and I have been able to
find only fifty-one revisions (one, a definition, is a new note) which I
feel reasonably certain are his. The third variorum, edited by Isaac
Reed in 1785, contains one revision in Johnson's notes.

"Dr. Johnson has displayed, in this revisal, such ingenuity, and
accuracy of just conception, as render the present annotations a
valuable addition to his former remarks on the subject." The writer is a
reviewer for the _Critical Review_ (Dee., 1773, p. 416); the work in
question is the 1773 Johnson-Steevens edition of Shakespeare's plays.
The remark quoted is from the last paragraph of a long review beginning
in November and seems almost an afterthought, for the same reviewer had
said that the edition "deserves to be considered as almost entirely the
production of Mr. Steevens" (p. 346).  In a sense this is true, but the
basis for the commentary in the 1773 edition was still the approximately
5600 notes, both his own and those of previous editors and critics, that
had appeared in Dr. Johnson's 1765 edition. The actual text of the plays
is another matter; a combination of collation and judicious borrowing,
it was provided by George Steevens. Steevens' contributions to the text
and annotation of Shakespeare's plays concern students of the dramatist;
That Johnson had to say about the plays concerns Johnsonians as veil as
Shakespeareans. And it is unfortunately true that too little attention
has been paid to what is after all Johnson's final and reconsidered
judgment on a number of passages in the plays.

The decision to reprint the commentary in the 1773 edition may be
questioned. Should not the 1765 text of the notes be reprinted, since
it, after all, is nearest to the author's manuscript? Will not errors
from the second and third editions have been perpetuated and new ones
committed in 1773, an inevitable result of reprinting any large body of
material? Ideally, the 1765 edition should be the copy-text.  But
Johnson made about 500 revisions in his commentary, adding eighty-four
new notes and omitting thirty-four of his original notes in the first
edition.  Obviously, Johnson cannot, or should not, be condemned for a
note in the 1765 edition which he omitted in 1773. Yet in selections
from Johnson's notes to Shakespeare that appear in anthologies some of
these offending notes have been reprinted without any indication that
the editors knew of their later retraction.  In seventy-three notes
Johnson adds comments to his original note; in eighty-eight, to the
notes of other editors and critics. He revises seventy-five of his
original notes and he omits ten comments on the notes of others. And
there are many other changes.  Some of the revisions come from the
Appendix to the 1765 edition.  I have collated the notes in the 1765 and
1773 editions for evidence of revision; changes in punctuation were
passed over, and I must admit that I do not think them important.  In
the light of my collation and because of the greater clumsiness of an
apparatus to indicate revisions in the 1765 notes I have elected to use
the 1773 text of Johnson's commentary, trusting that I have not
overlooked any significant changes. The reader has, then, for the first
time, outside the covers of the ten volumes of the 1773 edition, an
almost complete text of Johnson's notes on Shakespeare. The only
omission in this reprint is of those notes which merely list variant
readings, either from one of the folios or quartos or from a previous
editor. Johnson's reputation as an editor of Shakespeare rests, after
all, on his commentary, not on his textual labors. Up to now Johnson's
notes have been available only in such books as Walter Raleigh's
_Johnson on Shakespeare_ and Mona Wilson's _Johnson; Prose and Poetry_,
and here one gets merely a selection. For example: Miss Wilson reprints
only two notes from _The Tempest_, one from _Julius Caesar_, three from
_Antony and Cleopatra_, and one from _Titus Andronicus_. One rarely gets
the chance to read the more than 2000 notes in the edition given over to
definitions or paraphrases and explanations. Yet it must be remembered
that Johnson has been most often praised for these notes by scholars
whose primary interest was Shakespeare's meaning, not Johnson's
personality. And, what bears constant repetition, the anthologies draw
their notes from the 1765 edition, neglecting altogether Johnson's
revisions. It is only very recently that these revisions have been
studied at all--and then but partially.

The present division of the commentary into three parts--the notes on
the comedies, those on the tragedies, and those on the history plays--is
arbitrary and mostly a matter of convenience. Some division was
necessary, and it seemed advantageous to present introductions which
could use Johnson's reaction to comedy, tragedy, and history plays--and
Shakespeare's comedies, tragedies, and histories--as a point of
departure. Were the notes reprinted in the order of appearance of the
plays one would find _Macbeth_, coming after _The Winter's Tale_ (the
last of the comedies), introducing the history plays. Since Johnson had
written _Miscellaneous Observations on the Tragedy of Macbeth_ in 1745
and had included the play among the tragedies in the 1765 edition it
seems reasonable to assume that he regarded it as a tragedy and possibly
bowed to Steevens' wishes in allowing it to appear where it does in
1773. Hence, the notes on _Macbeth_ occur with those on the other
tragedies in this reprint.

One of the reasons for a full reprinting of Johnson's commentary has
already been discussed: a complete and accurate knowledge of his
thoughts on each of the plays of the then accepted canon is thus gained.
(I might add here that some notes by other editors, inadvertently
unattributed in the 1765 edition--some of them still unattributed in
1773--have been erroneously reprinted as Johnson's by both Walter
Raleigh and Mona Wilson.) Another reason is, of course, the relative
difficulty of getting at the volumes of the 1773 edition. Although not a
particularly scarce item, the edition can usually be consulted only in
Rare Book rooms (there are exceptions), where the working scholar is
hampered by the inaccessibility of many other books, not "rare," which
he needs at his elbow. Then again, the present reprint gives only
Johnson's notes, except for necessary explanations of, or quotations
from, the notes of previous editors and critics. But far transcending
these reasons, although deriving from them, is the enormous value to the
student of Johnson the man and the critic of a now easily accessible
body of literary criticism and personal comment that is second in
importance only to the _Lives of the Poets_.

Johnson's notes to the plays of Shakespeare are an invaluable source of
information of many kinds. I can only suggest here, and give a few
examples of, the wealth of material that awaits further, detailed
examination by other scholars. One demonstration, however, of the use to
which the notes can be put is provided by Professor E. L. McAdam's _Dr.
Johnson and the English Law_ (1951) in which are recorded notes showing
Johnson's familiarity with various legal terms. Further insight into
Johnson's knowledge of books of _esoterica_, histories, ballads, etc.,
can be gleaned from the comments on Shakespeare. A subject in which I
must confess an interest possibly out of proportion to its worth is that
of Johnson's reading. Some day we will have a list, probably never
complete, of the books we can be sure Johnson knew. Not only will the
notes to Shakespeare supply the names of works that Johnson knew, quoted
from, or alluded to only in these notes, but they will also help to
establish more firmly certain fields or subjects that fascinated him.
Thus, one note is evidence for Johnson's knowledge of Guevara's _Dial of
Princes_; another for his familiarity with Ficino's _De Vita Libri
Tres_; and nowhere else in Johnson's works, letters, or conversation are
these works so much as alluded, to. Other notes show us that Johnson
remembered now a poem, now an essay, from the _Gentleman's Magazine_. In
still other notes one encounters or is able to identify the names of
John Caius, John Trevisa, Dr. William Alabaster, Paul Scarron, Abraham
Ortelius, Meric Casaubon, and many others. Plays, sermons, travel books,
ballads, romances, proverbs, poems, histories, biographies, essays,
letters, documents--all have their place in the notes to Shakespeare.

No discussion of Johnson's knowledge of books can ignore the importance
of his reading for the _Dictionary_. Nor can this same preparatory
reading be overlooked in a consideration of the Shakespeare edition.
Between one-fifth and one-fourth of the notes to Shakespeare can be
traced back to the _Dictionary_. What is more, the revision of the 1765
_Shakespeare_ was undertaken at the same time that Johnson was revising
his _Dictionary_; both revisions appeared in the same year. And so one
is not surprised to find that these two labors are of reciprocal
assistance. One illustration will have to do duty for several: in a note
Johnson observes of the verb "to roam" that it is "supposed to be
derived from the cant of vagabonds, who often pretended a pilgrimage to
Rome;" this etymology is absent from the 1755 _Dictionary_; in the
revised _Dictionary_ the verb "is imagined to come from the pretenses of
vagrants, who always said they were going to Rome." A number of the new
notes and comments in the 1773 Shakespeare are clearly derived, directly
or indirectly, from the _Dictionary_.

I have already mentioned the _Lives of the Poets_ as the only critical
work by Johnson which takes precedence over the commentary (and Preface,
also) to the plays of Shakespeare. And yet this statement needs
modification. In one important respect the notes to Shakespeare are of
greater significance than the much more famous _Lives_ for an
investigation of Johnson the critic at work. Why, for example, is the
_Life of Cowley_ one of the most valuable of the _Lives_? For two
reasons: Johnson is discussing a school of poetry which has provoked
much comment, _and_ that particular _ Life_ abounds in quotations upon
which Johnson exercises his critical abilities. But there are not many
of the _Lives_ which reveal Johnson at work on particular passages,
where the passage in question is quoted and critical comment is made on
a particular line or a particular image, rhyme, word, etc. In short, as
so often in Johnson, we are confronted with the large general statement
in so much of the criticism in the _Lives_. The "diction" of _Lycidas_
is "harsh." "Some philosophical notions [in _Paradise_ _Lost_],
especially when the philosophy is false, might have been better
omitted." The plays of Nicholas Rowe are marked by "elegance of
diction." Dryden is not often "pathetick." Some of Swift's poetry is
"gross" and some is "trifling." The diction of Shenstone's _Elegies_ is
"often harsh, improper, and affected."

Johnson has not made his meaning entirely clear in these statements
because he has not illustrated his remarks with quotations from the
works or authors under examination.  The famous--or notorious--
condemnation of _Lycidas_ as "harsh" in diction continues to give
scholars pause. Most often Johnson has been accused of a poor--or no--
ear for poetry, since the only definition of "harsh" in his _Dictionary_
which is applicable here is "rough to the ear." As no specific lines
from the poem are labelled "harsh," one is forced to conclude that the
whole poem is unmusical to Johnson's ears--if "harsh" means only "rough
to the ear." But the notes to Shakespeare make it perfectly clear that
"harsh" often means something other than that.  Sometimes a line is
stigmatised as "harsh" because it contains what Johnson in _Rambler_ No.
88 called the "collision of consonants." An image offends his sense of
propriety and is therefore "harsh." Some words are "harsh" because they
are "appropriated to particular arts" (the phrase comes from his _Life
of Dryden_).  Thus, in _Measure for Measure_, a "leaven'd choice" is
"one of Shakespeare's harsh metaphors" because it conjures up images of
a baker at his trade. Johnson also uses "harsh" to describe a word used
in a sense not familiar to him. And "harsh" is sometimes used
synonymously with "forced and far-fetched." "Is't not a kind of incest,
to take life From thine own sister's shame?" asks Isabella of her
brother in _Measure for Measure_, provoking from Johnson the remark that
in her "declamation there is something harsh, and something forced and
far-fetched." Only now, with the varying uses of "harsh" as exemplified
in the notes to Shakespeare as guides, can one hope better to understand
the bare statement that the diction of _Lycidas_ is "harsh." Similar
investigation of other important words in Johnson's critical vocabulary
is possible through a close study of his commentary on Shakespeare's
plays. Words such as "elegant," "inartificial," "just," "low,"
"pathetic," "proper," "vicious," and others used in criticism of
specific lines and passages help one to pin down Johnson's meaning when
he uses the same words in general contexts elsewhere.

Johnson stands clearly revealed as a critic in his notes to Shakespeare;
if there is any doubt of this, it can only center about the comparative
importance we may wish to attach to the commentary in relation to the
rest of Johnson's criticism. But there is another aspect of Johnson of
which one gets but half-glimpses in the notes; and here I may be accused
or romanticizing or of reading too much significance into remarks whose
purpose was to illuminate Shakespeare's art and not, decidedly, to
reveal the editor's character. To put it baldly, I believe that in some
notes Johnson has given us clues to his own feelings under circumstances
similar to those in which Shakespeare's characters find themselves. Let
me illustrate. In the concluding line of Act II of _2 Henry VI_,
Eleanor, wife to the Duke of Gloucester, is on her way to prison. She
says, "Go, lead the way. I long to see my prison." Johnson comments:
"This impatience of a high spirit is very natural. It is not so dreadful
to be imprisoned, as it is desirable in a state of disgrace to be
sheltered from the scorn of gazers." This note may be innocuous enough,
but it is worth recalling that Johnson was arrested for debt in
February, 1758, when he was engaged in the edition of Shakespeare. And
two years earlier, in March of 1756, he had also been arrested for debt.
Friends came to his rescue both times. Curiously, there is no mention of
the arrests in Boswell's _Life_. Did Boswell know and deliberately omit
these facts, or did Johnson prefer to keep silent about them? Anecdote
after anecdote shows Johnson to have been an extremely proud man, one
who would feel keenly a public disgrace. Was he exposed to "the scorn of
gazers" on one or both of these occasions? It is tempting, and
admittedly dangerous, to read autobiographical significance in the note
on Eleanor's words. But another question intrudes itself in this
connection: Is there a link between the two arrests and _Idler_ No. 22,
"Imprisonment of Debtors," which Johnson substituted for the original
essay when the periodical was republished in 1761? I am not prepared to
answer these questions; I can only raise them.

I cannot forbear another excursion into the region of Johnsonian
autobiography (or pseudo-autobiography) even at the increased risk of
committing a scholarly sin against which I have myself protested. In my
own defense I can say that I know the highly conjectural nature of what
I am doing. Johnson's pride may have suffered when he was arrested for
debt in the presence of unsympathetic onlookers. This is sheer
hypothesizing. But when, in _Henry IV_, Worcester speaks the following
words:

For, bear ourselves as even as we can, The King will always think him in
our debt; And think, we deem ourselves unsatisfy'd, Till he hath found a
time to pay us home. (I.iii.285-8) and Johnson comments:  "This is a
natural description of the state of mind between those who have
conferred, and those that have received, obligations too great to be
satisfied," we may protest that such a reaction is by no means
universal. The suspicion that Johnson is speaking for himself is
strengthened by an observation made by Sir Joshua Reynolds and recorded
by his biographer, Junes Northcote. Reynolds remarks "that if any drew
[Johnson] into a state of obligation without his own consent, that man
was the first he would affront, by way of clearing off the account"
(see Boswell's _Life_, III, 345, n.l). Johnson's note may nov be looked
upon as a possible personal confession. Other conjectures are justified,
I believe, by still other notes, but it may be preferable to list,
without comment, some of the topics upon which Johnson has his say in
the notes to Shakespeare. He comments on melancholy, falsehood, the
lightness with which vows are made, cruelty to animals, "the pain of
deformity," the horrors of solitude, kindness to dependents, friendship,
slavery, guilt, the "unsocial mind," the "mean" and the "great"--and a
host of others. It is not difficult, therefore, to understand why the
editor of _The Beauties of Johnson_ quoted so often from the notes to
Shakespeare.

The University of Illinois copy of the 1773 Shakespeare has been used.
It is unique, I believe, in that the last volume contains a list of
"Cancels In Shakespeare.  This List not to be bound up with the Book,
being only to direct the Binder," one of the earliest of these forgotten
directions to the binder to be recorded. There is another point of
bibliographical interest in the edition. L. F. Powell states that there
are three Appendices in the last volume of the edition (_Life_. II,
490), as does T. J. Monaghan (_RES_, 1953, p. 238). Yet the Illinois
copy has only two appendices, and a check of copies in some six large
American libraries reveals the same number. The copy with the three
Appendices would seem quite rare.

One or two symbols and abbreviations have been used for the sake of
economy. A new note or comment by Johnson, one added in 1773, is
indicated by (1773) at the end of the note. "W" is Warburton; "T" is
Theobald. The notation "W: winter" points to an easily recognizable
emendation by Warburton in a line quoted before the note in question.
Easily identifiable references to revisions of notes in the 1765
edition, or to revisions later made in the 1778 edition, are placed in
parentheses at the end of the notes. Scholars interested in these
revisions must check them for themselves. Act, scene, and line
references to Shakespeare are from Kittredge's edition of the works
(Boston, 1936). The numbers in parentheses after the reference in
Kittredge are to page and note number (the volume being given only once)
in the 1773 edition. The page reference is to the page upon which the
note, Johnson's or another editor's, starts; sometimes the notes extend
to three or more pages. The text of Shakespeare quoted is that of the
1773 edition; this is the text that Johnson's contemporaries saw, and it
would be a distortion to reprint Johnson's notes after a modern text.

The following list is of notes Johnson omitted in 1773; the references
are, of course, to the 1765 edition: I, 64, 0; 94,0 106 ; 113, 0; 133,0;
151,0 ; 153,0 ; 233, 8; 469, 1; II, 217, 2; 295, 8; 326, 8; 396, 8;
464, 6; III, 193, 3; IV, 149, 2; 201, 5; 347, 4; 372, 5; 398, 7; 404, 3;
V, 61, 5; 107, 9; VI, 17, 3; 80, 5; [166]; 415, 9; 440, 9; VII, 316, 3;
VIII, 121, 9; 198, 2; 272, 6; 281, 9; 362, 7. Fourteen notes in the 1765
edition, there inadvertently unattributed, are taken verbatim from other
editors and critics; five of these are correctly attributed in 1773 (see
1765, V, 182, 1; VI, 24, 3 and 177, 3; and Appendix, notes on V, 253 and
VII, 444). Four notes are entirely omitted: 1773, II, 50, 4; 138, 5; V,
297, 6; and VII, 317, 6. In four others (1773, I, 249, 5; II, 466, 7;
VI, 72, 4; and X, 417, 8) the part of the note that is not Johnson's is
set off by brackets and properly attributed. Finally, the note on II,
452 in the 1765 Appendix, taken partly from "Mr. Smith," appears in 1773
(I, 195, 5) as part of Steevens' comment. _Introduction on Comedies_.

If I were to select the one passage in Dr. Johnson's Preface to
Shakespeare which occasioned the greatest immediate protest and which
has continued to be held up to critical scorn, I should have to pitch
upon this: "In tragedy he is always struggling after some occasion to be
comick; but in comedy he seems to repose, or to luxuriate, as in a mode
of thinking congenial to his nature. In his tragick scenes there is
always something wanting, but his comedy often surpasses expectation or
desire. His comedy pleases by the thoughts and the language, and his
tragedy for the greater part by incident and action. His tragedy seems
to be skill, his comedy to be instinct." As a theatre-goer, Johnson
could also say in the Preface that "familiar comedy is often more
powerful on the theatre, than in the page; imperial tragedy is always
less." One might logically assume, then, that Johnson's greater
enjoyment of Shakespeare's comedies would be easily remarked in his
commentary--and even, possibly, that they would be singled out for more
annotation and comment than the tragedies or the histories.  The most
heavily annotated plays are, however, the tragedies, and it is curious
to observe that the sombre "problem comedy," _Measure for Measure_,
commands more notes than any other comedy. Further, Johnson's moral and
religious sensibilities were offended by profanity and obscenity in the
drama, and Shakespeare's comedies, far more than his tragedies and
histories, transgress in this direction. One recollects, finally, that
the dramatic genre favored most by Johnson was the "she-tragedy." Was
Johnson lauding Shakespeare's comedies because the tragedies had been
excessively praised? I do not know.

I an most grateful to the Research Board of the University of Illinois
for a grant which greatly expedited my work.




COMEDIES


Vol. I

THE TEMPEST

I.i (4,2) [_Enter a Ship-master and a Boatswain_]  In this naval
dialogue, perhaps the first example of sailor's language exhibited on
the stage, there are, as I have been told by a skilful narrator, some
inaccuracies and contradictory orders.

I.i.8 (4,4) [blow, till thou burst thy wind, if room enough] Perhaps it
might be read,--_blow till thou burst, wind, if room enough_.

I.i.30 (5,5) It may be observed of Gonzalo, that, being the only good
man that appears with the king, he is the only man that preserves his
cheerfulness in the wreck, and his hope on the island.

I.i.52 (6,7) [set her two courses; off to sea again] The courses are the
main-sail and fore-sail.  This term is used by Raleigh, in his
_Discourse on Shipping_.

I.i.63 (6,9)

[He'll be hang'd yet;
Though every drop of water swear against it,
And gape at wid'st to glut him.]

Shakespeare probably wrote, _t'englut him, to swallow him_; for which I
know not that _glut_ is ever used by him.  In this signification
_englut_, from _engloutir_, French, occurs frequently, as in _Henry VI_.

  "--Thou art so near the gulf
  Thou needs must be _englutted_."

And again in _Timon_ and _Othello_. Yet Milton writes _glutted offal_ for
_swallowed_, and therefore perhaps the present text may stand.

I.i.65 (7,1) [Farewell, brother!] All these lines have been hitherto
given to Gonzalo, who has no brother in the ship.  It is probable
that the lines succeeding the _confused noise within_ should be
considered as spoken by no determinate characters, but should be
printed thus.

1 _Sailor_. Mercy on us!
We split, we split!

2 _Sailor_. Farewell, my, &c.

3 _Sailor_. Brother, farewell, &c.     (see 1765, I,6,6)

I.ii.15 (8,3) [_Mira_. O, woe the day! _Pro_. No harm, I have done nothing
but in care of thee] I know not whether Shakespeare did not make Miranda
speak thus:

_O, woe the day! no harm?_

To which Prospero properly answers:

_I have done nothing but in care of thee_.
Miranda, when he speaks the words, _O, woe the day_! supposes, not
that the crew had escaped, but that her father thought differently
from her, and counted their destruction _no harm_.

I.ii.27 (8,4) [virtue of compassion] Virtue; the most efficacious
part, the energetic quality; in a like sense we say, _The virtue
of a plant is in the extract_.

I.ii.29 (8,5)

  [I have with such provision in mine art
  So safely order'd, that there is no soul--
  No, not so much perdition as an hair,
  Betid to any creature in the vessel]

Thus the old editions read, but this is apparently defective.
Mr. Rowe, and after him Dr. Warburton, read _that there is no
soul lost_, without any notice of the variation. Mr. Theobald
substitutes _no foil_, and Mr. Pope follows him. To come so near
the right, and yet to miss it, is unlucky: the author probably
wrote _no soil_, no stain, no spot: for so Ariel tells,

  _Not a hair perish'd;
  On their sustaining garments not a blemish,
  But fresher than before._

And Gonzalo, _The rarity of it is, that our garments being
drench'd in the sea, keep notwithstanding their freshness and
glosses_. Of this emendation I find that the author of notes
on _The Tempest_ had a glimpse, but could not keep it.

I.ii.58 (10,7) [and thy father Was duke of Milan, thou his only
heir] Perhaps--_and_ thou _his only heir_.

I.ii.83 (11,1)

      [having both the key
  Of officer and office, set all hearts i' the state
  To what tune pleas'd his ear]

_Key_ in this place seems to signify the key of a musical instrument,
by which he set _Hearts to tune_.

I.ii.93 (11,2) [and my trust,_Like a good parent, did beget of him_
A falshood] Alluding to the observation, that a father above the
common rate of men has commonly a son below it. _Heroum filii
noxae_.

I.ii.155 (14,6) [deck'd the sea] _To deck the sea_, if explained, to
honour, adorn, or dignify, is indeed ridiculous, but the original
import of the verb _deck_ is, _to cover_; so in some parts they
yet say _deck the table_. This sense nay be borne, but perhaps
the poet wrote _fleck'd_, which I think is still used in rustic
language of drops falling upon water. Dr. Warburton reads
_mock'd_, the Oxford edition _brack'd_. (see 1765, I,13,5)

I.ii.185 (15,8) [Thou art inclin'd to sleep: 'tis a good dulness]
Dr. Warburton rightly observes, that this sleepiness, which
Prospero by his art had brought upon Miranda, and of which he
knew not how soon the effect would begin, makes him question
her so often whether she is attentive to his story.

I.ii.196 (16,1) [I boarded the king's ship: now on the beak] The
beak was a strong pointed body at the head of the ancient gallies;
it is used here for the forecastle, or the bolt-sprit.

I.ii.197 (16,2) [Now in the waste] The part between the quarter-deck
and the forecastle.

I.ii.209 (16,3) [Not a soul _But felt a fever of the mad_] In all the
later editions this is changed to a _fever of the mind_, without
reason or authority, nor is any notice given of an alteration.

I.ii.218 (17,4) [_On their sustaining garments not a blemish_ Thomas
Edwards' MSS: sea-stained] This note of Mr. Edwards, with which
I suppose no reader is satisfied, shews with how much greater
ease critical emendations are destroyed than made, and how
willingly every man would be changing the text, if his imagination
would furnish alterations. (1773)

I.ii.239 (19,7) [What is the time o' the day?] This passage needs
not be disturbed, it being common to ask a question, which the
next moment enables us to answer; he that thinks it faulty may
easily adjust it thus:

  Pro. _What is the time o' the day? Past the mid season._
  Ari. _At least two glasses._
  Pro. _The time 'twixt six and now_--

I.ii.250 (19,8) [_Pro._ Dost thou forget _From what a torment I did
free thee?_] That the character and conduct of Prospero may be
understood, something must be known of the system of enchantment,
which supplied all the marvellous found in the romances
of the middle ages. This system seems to be founded on the
opinion that the fallen spirits, having different degrees of
guilt, had different habitations allotted them at their expulsion,
some being confined in hell, _some_ (as Hooker, who delivers
the opinion of our poet's age, expresses it) _dispersed in air,
some on earth, some in water, others in caves, dens, or minerals
under the earth_. Of these, some were more malignant and
mischievous than others. The earthy spirits seem to have been
thought the most depraved, and the aerial the least vitiated.
Thus Prospero observes of Ariel:

 --_Thou wast a spirit too delicate
  To act her_ earthy _and abhorr'd commands._

Over these spirits a power might be obtained by certain rites
performed or charms learned. This power was called _The Black
Art_, or _Knowledge of Enchantment_. The enchanter being (as king
James observes in his _Demonology_) one _who commands the devil,
whereas the witch serves him_. Those who thought best of this
art, the existence of which was, I am afraid, believed very
seriously, held, that certain sounds and characters had a physical
power over spirits, and compelled their agency; others who
condemned the practice, which in reality was surely never
practised, were of opinion, with more reason, that the power of
charms arose _only_ from compact, and was no more than the spirits
voluntary allowed them for the seduction of man. The art was
held by all, though not equally criminal, yet unlawful, and
therefore Causabon, speaking of one who had commerce with
spirits, blames him, though he imagines him _one of the best kind
who dealt with them by way of command_. Thus Prospero repents of
his art in the last scene. The spirits were always considered
as in some measure enslaved to the enchanter, at least for a
time, and as serving with unwillingness, therefore Ariel so often
begs for liberty; and Caliban observes, that the spirits serve
Prospero with no good will, but _hate him rootedly_.--Of these
trifles enough.

I.ii.306 (22,1) [_Mira._ The strangeness of your story put _Heaviness
in me_.] Why should a wonderful story produce sleep? I believe
experience will prove, that any violent agitation of the mind
easily subsides in slumber, especially when, as in Prospero's
relation, the last images are pleasing.

I.ii.321 (23,2)

  [As wicked dew, as e'er my mother brush'd
  With raven's feather from unwholsome fen,
  Drop on you both!]

[Some critics, Bentley among them, had spoken of Caliban's new
language.] Whence these critics derived the notion of a new
language appropriated to Caliban, I cannot find: they certainly
mistook brutality of sentiment for uncouthness of words. Caliban
had learned to speak of Prospero and his daughter, he had no
names for the sun and moon before their arrival, and could not
have invented a language of his own without more understanding
than Shakespeare has thought it proper to bestow upon him. His
diction is indeed somewhat clouded by the gloominess of his temper,
and the malignity of his purposes; but let any other being
entertain the same thoughts, and he will find them easily issue
in the same expressions.

[_As wicked dew_,]--_Wicked_; having baneful qualities. So
Spenser says, _wicked weed_; so, in opposition, we say herbs or
medicines have _virtues_. Bacon mentions _virtuous Bezoar_, and
Dryden _virtuous herbs_.

I.ii.351 (25,4) [Abhorred slave] This speech, which the old copy
gives to Miranda, is very judiciously bestowed by Mr. Theobald
on Prospero.

I.ii.364 (27,7) [the red plague] I suppose from the redness of the
body universally inflamed.

I.ii.396 (28,9) [Full fathom five thy father lies] [Charles Gildon
had criticized the song as trifling, and Warburton had defended
its dramatic propriety.] I know not whether Dr. Warburton has
very successfully defended these songs from Gildon's accusation.
Ariel's lays, however seasonable and efficacious, must be
allowed to be of no supernatural dignity or elegance, they express
nothing great, nor reveal any thing above mortal discovery.

The reason for which Ariel is introduced thus trifling is,
that he and his companions are evidently of the fairy kind, an
order of beings to which tradition has always ascribed a sort of
diminutive agency, powerful but ludicrous, a humorous and frolick
controlment of nature, well expressed by the songs of Ariel.

I.ii.425 (31,3)

  [Fer.        my prime request,
      Which I do last pronounce, is, O you wonder!
      If you be maid, or no?
  Mira. No wonder, Sir;
      But, certainly, a maid.]

[Nothing could be more prettily imagined to illustrate the
singularity of her character, than this pleasant mistake. W.] Dr.
Warburton has here found a beauty, which I think the author never
intended. Ferdinand asks her not whether she was a _created being_,
a question which, if he meant it, he has ill expressed, but whether
she was unmarried; for after the dialogue which Prospero's
interruption produces, he goes on pursuing his former question.

  _O, if a virgin,
  I'll make you queen of Naples_.

I.ii.439 (32,5) [controul thee] Confute thee, unanswerably contradict thee.

I.ii.471 (33,7) [come from thy ward] Desist from any hope of awing
me by that posture of defence.

II.i.3 (36,1) [our hint of woe] _Hint_ is that which recals to the
memory. The cause that fills our minds with grief is common.
Dr. Warburton reads _stint_ of woe.

II.i.11 (36,3) [_Ant._ The visitor will not give him o'er so] Why Dr.
Warburton should change _visitor_ to _'vizer_ for _adviser_, I cannot
discover. Gonzalo gives not only advice, but comfort, and is
therefore properly called _The Visitor_, like others who visit the
sick or distressed to give them consolation. In some of the
Protestant churches there is a kind of officers termed consolators
for the sick.

II.i.78 (38,6) [Widow Dido!] The name of a widow brings to their
minds their own shipwreck, which they consider as having made
many widows in Naples.

II.i.132 (39,7)

      [Milan and Naples have
  More widows in them of this business' making,
  Than we bring men to comfort them]

It does not clearly appear whether the king and these lords
thought the ship lost. This passage seems to imply, that they
were themselves confident of returning, but imagined part of
the fleet destroyed. Why, indeed, should Sebastian plot against
his brother in the following scene, unless he knew how to find
the kingdom which be was to inherit?

II.i.232 (43,1) [this lord of weak remembrance] This lord, who,
being now in his dotage, has outlived his faculty of remembering;
and who, once laid in the ground, shall be as little remembered
himself, as he can now remember other things.

II.i.235 (43,2)

  [For he's a spirit of persuasion, only
  Professes to persuade the king his son's alive]

Of this entangled sentence I can draw no sense from the present
reading, and therefore imagine that the author gave it thus:

  _For_ he, _a spirit of persuasion, only
  Professes to persuade_.

Of which the meaning may be either, that _he alone, who is a
spirit of persuasion, professes to persuade the king_; or that,
_He only professes to persuade_, that is, _without being so
persuaded himself, he makes a show of persuading the king_.

II.i.242 (44,3) [Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond] That this is
the utmost extent of the prospect of ambition, the point where
the eye can pass no further, and where objects lose their
distinctness, so that what is there discovered, is faint, obscure,
and doubtful. (rev. 1778, I,50,4)

II.i.251 (44,5)

      [though some cast again;
  And, by that destiny, to perform an act,
  Whereof what's past is prologue; what to come,
  In yours, and my discharge.]

These lines stand in the old edition thus:

     --_though some cast again;
  And, by that destiny, to perform an act,
  Whereof what's past, is prologue; what to come,
  In your and my discharge_.

The reading in the later editions is without authority. The
old text may very well stand, except that in the last line _in_
should be _is_. and perhaps we might better say--_and that by
destiny_. It being a common plea of wickedness to call temptation
destiny.

II.i.259 (45,6) [Keep in Tunis] There is in this passage a propriety
lost, which a slight alteration will restore:

     --Sleep _in Tunis,
  And let Sebastian wake_!

II.i.278 (45,7) [Twenty consciences, That stand 'twixt me and
Milan, candy'd be they, Or melt e'er they molest] I had rather
read,

  Would _melt e'er they molest_.

i.e. _Twenty consciences, such as stand between me and my hopes,
though they were congealed, would melt before they could molest
one_, or prevent the execution of my purposes. (see 1765, I,40,7)

II.i.286 (46,8) [This ancient morsel] For _morsel_ Dr. Warburton
reads _ancient moral_, very elegantly and judiciously, yet I know
not whether the author might not write _morsel_, as we say a _piece
of a man_.

II.i.288 (46,9) [take suggestion] i.e. Receive any hint of villainy,
(1773)

II.i.297 (46,1)

  [_Ari._ My master through his art foresees the danger,
         That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth
         (For else his project dies) to keep them living]

[i.e. Alonzo and Antonio; for it was on their lives that his project
depended. Yet the Oxford Editor alters _them_ to _you_, because
in the verse before, it is said--_you his friend_; as if, because
Ariel was _sent forth_ to _save his friend_, he could not have another
purpose in sending him, _viz_. to _save his project_ too. W.]

I think Dr. Warburton and the Oxford Editor both mistaken.
The sense of the passage, as it now stands, is this: He sees
_your_ danger, and will therefore save _them_. Dr. Warburton has
mistaken Antonio for Gonzalo. Ariel would certainly not tell
Gonzalo, that his master saved him only for his project. He
speaks to himself as he approaches,

  _My master through his art foresees the danger
  That_ these _his friends are in_.

_These_ written with a _y_, according to the old practice, did not
much differ from _you_.

II.i.308 (47,2) [Why are you drawn?] Having your swords drawn. So
in _Romeo and Juliet_:

  "What art thou _drawn_ among these heartless hinds?"

II.ii.12 (48,3) [sometime am I All wound with adders] Enwrapped by
adders _wound_ or twisted about me.

II.ii.32 (49,5) [make a man] That is, make a man's fortune. So in
_Midsummer Night's Dream_--"we are all _made men_."

II.ii.176 (54,5) [I'll get thee Young scamels from the rock] This
word has puzzled the commentators: Dr. Warburton reads _shamois_.
Mr. Theobald would read any thing rather than _scamels_. Mr.
Holt, who wrote notes upon this play, observes, that limpets are
in some places called _scams_, therefore I have suffered _scamels_
to stand.

III.i.48 (58,8) [Of every creature's best] Alluding to the picture
of Venus by Apelles.

III.ii.71 (62,5) [What a py'd ninny's this?] This line should certainly
be given to Stephano. _Py'd ninny_ alludes to the striped
coat worn by fools, of which Caliban could have no knowledge.
Trinculo had before been reprimanded and threatened by Stephano
for giving Caliban the lie, he is now supposed to repeat his
offence. Upon which Stephano cries out,

  _What a py'd ninny's this? Thou scurvy patch_!--

Caliban, now seeing his master in the mood that he wished, instigates
him to vengeance:

  _I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows_.

III.iii.48 (67,2) [Each putter out on five for one] This passage
alluding to a forgotten custom is very obscure: the _putter out_
must be a traveller, else how could he give this account? the
_five for one_ is money to be received by him at his return, Mr.
Theobald has well illustrated this passage by a quotation from
Jonson.

III.iii.82 (69,3) [clear life] Pure, blameless, innocent.

III.iii.86 (69,4)

	[so with good life,
  And observation strange, my meaner ministers
  Their several kinds have done]

This seems a corruption. I know not in what sense _life_ can here
be used, unless for alacrity, liveliness, vigour, and in this
sense the expression is harsh. Perhaps we may read,--_with good_
lift, with good will, with sincere zeal for my service. I should
have proposed,--_with good_ lief, in the same sense, but that I
cannot find _lief_ to be a substantive. _With good life_ may however
mean, with _exact presentation of their several characters, with
observation strange_ of their particular and distinct parts. So
we say, he acted to the _life_. (see 1765, I,60,4)

III.iii.99 (70,5) [bass my trespass] The deep pipe told it me in a
rough bass sound.

IV.i.2 (71,7) [for I Have given you here a third of mine own life]
[Theobald had argued that Miranda was at least half of Prospero's
life and had emended.] In consequence of this ratiocination Mr.
Theobald printed the text, _a_ thread _of my own life_. I have
restored the ancient reading. Prospero, in his reason subjoined
why he calls her the _third_ of his life, seems to allude to some
logical distinction of causes, making her the final cause.

IV.i.7 (71,8) [strangely stood the test] Strangely is used by way
of commendation, _merveilleusement, to a wonder_; the sense is the
same in the foregoing scene, with _observation strange_.

IV.i.37 (72,1) [the rabble] The crew of meaner spirits.

IV.i.59 (73,4) [No tongue] Those who are present at incantations
are obliged to be strictly silent, "else," as we are afterwards
told, "the spell is marred."

IV.i.166 (80,4) [We must prepare to meet with Caliban] _To meet with_
is to counteract; to play stratagem against stratagem.--_The parson
knows the temper of every one in his house, and accordingly
either_ meets with their vices, _or advances their virtues_.

HERBERT's _Country Parson_.

IV.i.178 (80,5)

         [so I charm'd their ears,
  That, calf-like, they my loving follow'd through
  Tooth'd briars, sharp furzes, pricking goss, and thorns,
  Which enter'd their frail shins]

Thus Drayton, in his _Court of Fairie of Hobgoblin caught in a
Spell:_

  "But once the circle got within,
  "The charms to work do straight begin,
  "And he was caught as in a gin:
     "For as be thus was busy,
  "A pain he in his head-piece feels,
  "Against a stubbed tree he reels,
  "And up went poor Hobgoblin's heels:
     "Alas, his brain was dizzy.
  "At length upon his feet he gets,
  "Hobgoblin fumes, Hobgoblin frets;
  "And as again he forward sets,
     "And through the bushes scrambles,
  "A stump doth hit him in his pace,
  "Down comes poor Hob upon his face,
  "And lamentably tore his case
     "Among the briers and brambles."

IV.i.196 (81,7) [your fairy ... has done little better than play'd the
Jack with us] Has led us about like an _iguis fatuus_, by which
travellers are decoyed into the mire.

IV.i.246 (83,3) [put some lime] That is, _birdlime_.

V.i.102 (90,7) [_Ari_. I drink the air before me] Is an expression of
swiftness of the same kind as _to devour the way_ in _Henry IV_.

V.i.144 (92,1)

  [_Alon_. You the like loss?
  _Pro_. As great to me, as late;]

My loss is as great as yours, and has as lately happened to me.

V.i.174 (93,2) [Yes, for a score of kingdoms] I take the sense to be
only this: Ferdinand would not, he says, play her false for the
_world_; yes, answers she, I would allow you to do it for something
less than the world, for _twenty kingdoms_, and I wish you well
enough to allow you, after a little _wrangle_, that your play was
fair. So likewise Dr. Gray.

V.i.213 (94,3) [When no man was his own] For _when_ perhaps should be
read _where_.

V.i.247 (96,4)

      [at pick'd leisure
  (Which shall be shortly) single I'll resolve you,
  (Which to you shall seem probable) of every
  These happen'd accidents]

These words seem, at the first view, to have no use; some lines
are perhaps lost with which they were connected. Or we may explain
them thus: I will resolve you, by yourself, which method,
when you hear the story [of Anthonio's and Sebastian's plot]
_shall seem probable_, that is, _shall deserve your approbation_.

V.i.267 (97,5)

  [Mark but the badges of these men, my lords,
  Then say, if they be true]

That is, _honest_. _A true man_ is, in the language of that time,
opposed to a thief. The sense is, _Mark what these men wear, and
say if they are honest_.

Epilogue.10 (100,7) With the help of your good hands] By your
applause, by clapping hands. (1773)

General Observation (100) It is observed of _The Tempest_, that its
plan is regular; this the author of _The Revisal_ thinks, what I
think too, an accidental effect of the story, not intended or
regarded by our author. But whatever might be Shakespeare's intention
in forming or adopting the plot, he has made it instrumental
to the production of many characters, diversified with
boundless invention, and preserved with profound skill in nature,
extensive knowledge of opinions, and accurate observation of
life. In a single drama are here exhibited princes, courtiers,
and sailors, all speaking in their real characters. There is
the agency of airy spirits, and of an earthly goblin. The
operation of magick, the tumults of a storm, the adventures of
a desert island, the native effusion of untaught affection, the
punishment of guilt, and the final happiness of the pair for
whom our passions and reason are equally interested. (1773)





THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA

It is observable (I know not for what cause) that the stile of this
comedy is less figurative, and more natural and unaffected than the
greater part of this author's, though supposed to be one of the first
he wrote. [Pope.] To this observation of Mr. Pope, which is very just,
Mr. Theobald has added, that this is one of Shakespeare's _worst
plays, and is less corrupted than any other_. Mr. Upton peremptorily
determines, _that if any proof can be drawn from manner and stile,
this play must be sent packing, and seek for its parent elsewhere. How
otherwise_, says he, _do painters distinguish copies from originals,
and have not authors their peculiar stile and manner from which a true
critic can form as unerring judgment as a painter_? I am afraid this
illustration of a critic's science will not prove what is desired. A
painter knows a copy from an original by rules somewhat resembling
these by which critics know a translation, which if it be literal, and
literal it must be to resemble the copy of a picture, will be easily
distinguished. Copies are known from originals, even when the painter
copies his own picture; so if an author should literally translate his
work, he would lose the manner of an original.

Mr. Upton confounds the copy of a picture with the imitation
of a painter's manner. Copies are easily known, but good imitations
are not detected with equal certainty, and are, by the
best judges, often mistaken. Nor is it true that the writer has
always peculiarities equally distinguishable with those of the
painter. The peculiar manner of each arises from the desire,
natural to every performer, of facilitating his subsequent works
by recurrence to his former ideas; this recurrence produces that
repetition which is called habit. The painter, whose work is
partly intellectual and partly manual, has habits of the mind,
the eye and the hand, the writer has only habits of the mind.
Yet, some painters have differed as much from themselves as from
any other; and I have been told, that there is little resemblance
between the first works of Raphael and the last. The same variation
may be expected in writers; and if it be true, as it seems,
that they are less subject to habit, the difference between their
works may be yet greater.

But by the internal marks of a composition we may discover
the author with probability, though seldom with certainty. When
I read this play, I cannot but think that I find, both in the
serious and ludicrous scenes, the language and sentiments of
Shakespeare. It is not indeed one of his most powerful effusions,
it has neither many diversities of character, nor striking
delineations of life, but it abounds in [Greek: gnomahi] beyond most of
his plays, and few have more lines or passages, which, singly
considered, are eminently beautiful.  I am yet inclined to believe
that it was not very successful, and suspect that it has escaped
corruption, only because being seldom played, it was less exposed
to the hazards of transcription.

I.i.34 (108,6)

  [However, but a folly bought with wit;
  Or else a wit by folly vanquished]

This love will end in a _foolish action_, to produce which you are
long to spend your _wit_, or it will end in the loss of your _wit_,
which will be overpowered by the folly of love.

I.i.69 (109,7) [Made wit with musing weak] For _made_ read _make_.
_Thou_, Julia, _hast_ made _me war with good counsel, and_ make _wit
weak with muting_.

I.i.70 (109,8) [_Enter Speed_] [Pope found this scene low and full of
"trifling conceits" and suggested it was possibly an interpolation
by the actors.] That this, like many other scenes, is mean and
vulgar, will be universally allowed; but that it was interpolated
by the players seems advanced without any proof, only to give a
greater licence to criticism.

I.i.153 (112,4) [you have testern'd me] You have gratified me with
a _tester, testern_, or _testen_, that is, with a sixpence.

I.ii.41 (114,5) [a goodly broker!] A _broker_ was used for matchmaker,
sometimes for a procuress.

I.ii.68 (115,6) [stomach on your meat] _Stomach_ was used for _passion_
or _obstinacy_.

I.ii.137 (117,8) [I see you have a month's mind to them] [_A month's
mind_ was an _anniversary_ in times of popery. Gray.] A _month's
mind_, in the ritual sense, signifies not desire or inclination,
but remonstrance; yet I suppose this is the true original of the
expression. (1773)
I.iii.1 (118,9) [what sad talk] _Sad_ is the same as _grave_ or _serious_.

I.iii.26 (119,2) [Valentine, Attends the emperor in his royal court]
[Theobald had tried to straighten out an historical error.] Mr.
Theobald discovers not any great skill in history. Vienna is
not the court of the emperor as emperor, nor has Milan been
always without its princes since the days of Charlemaigne; but
the note has its use.

I.iii.44 (120,3) [in good time] _In good time_ was the old expression
when something happened which suited the thing in hand, as the
French say, _a propos_.

I.iii.84 (121,4) [Oh, how this spring of love resembleth] At the
end of this verse there is wanting a syllable, for the speech
apparently ends in a quatrain. I find nothing that will rhyme
to _sun_, and therefore shall leave it to some happier critic.
But I suspect that the author might write thus:

  _Oh, how this spring of love resembleth_ right,
    _The uncertain glory of an April day_;
  _Which now shews all the glory of the_ light,
    _And, by and by, a cloud takes all away_.

_Light_ was either by negligence or affectation changed to _sun_,
which, considered without the rhyme, is indeed better. The next
transcriber, finding that the word _right_ did not rhyme to _sun_,
supposed it erroneously written, and left it out.

II.i.27 (123,1) [Hallowmas] That is, about the feast of All-Saints,
when winter begins, and the life of a vagrant becomes less comfortable.

II.i.39 (123,2) [without you were so simple, none else would] None
else would _be so simple_.

II.i.148 (127,5) [reasoning with yourself?] That is, _discoursing,
talking_. An Italianism.

II.iii.22 (129,2) [I am the dog] This passage is much confused, and
of confusion the present reading makes no end. Sir T. Hammer
reads, _I am the dog, no, the dog is himself and I am_ me, _the dog
is_ the dog, _and I am myself_. This certainly is more reasonable,
but I know not how much reason the author intended to bestow on
Launce's soliloquy.

II.iv.57 (133,1) [not without desert] And not dignified with so
much reputation without proportionate merit.

II.iv.115 (134,2) [No: that you are worthless] I have inserted the
particle _no_ to fill up the measure.

II.iv.129 (135,4)

  [I have done penance for contemning love;
  Whose high imperious thoughts have punish'd me
  With bitter fasts, with penitential groans]

For _whose_ I read _those_.  I have contemned love and am punished.
_Those_ high thoughts by which I exalted myself above human passions
or frailties have brought upon me fasts and groans.

II.iv.138 (136,5) [no woe to his correction] No misery that _can be
compared to_ the punishment inflicted by love. Herbert called
for the prayers of the liturgy a little before his death, saying,
_None_ to _them_, _none_ to _them_.

II.iv.152 (136,6) [a principality] The first or _principal_ of women.
So the old writers use _state_. _She is a lady, a great_ state.
Latymer. _This look is called in_ states _warlie, in others
otherwise_. Sir T. More.

II.iv.167 (137,8) [She is alone] She stands by herself. There is
none to be compared to her.

II.iv.207 (138,1) [with more advice] With more prudence, with more
discretion.

II.iv.209 (138,2) ['Tis but her picture I have yet beheld] This is
evidently a slip of attention, for he had seen her in the last
scene, and in high terms offered her his service.

II.v.28 (139,4) [My staff understands me] This equivocation, miserable
as it is, has been admitted by Milton in his great poem.
B. VI.

  "----The terms we sent were terms of weight,
  "Such as we may perceive, amaz'd them all,
  "And stagger'd many who receives them right,
  "Had need from head to foot well _understand_,
  "Not _understood_, this gift they have besides,
  "To shew us when our foes stand not upright."

II.vi (141,5) [Enter Protheus] It is to be observed, that in the
first folio edition, the only edition of authority, there are no
directions concerning the scenes; they have been added by the
later editors, and may therefore be changed by any reader that
can give more consistency or regularity to the drama by such
alterations. I make this remark in this place, because I know
not whether the following soliloquy of Protheus is so proper in
the street.

II.vi.7 (141,6) [O sweet-suggesting love] To _suggest_ is to _tempt_ in
our author's language. So again:

  "Knowing that tender youth is soon _suggested_."

The sense is, _O_ tempting love, _if thou hast_ influenced me to
sin, _teach me to excuse it_. Dr. Warburton reads, _if I have
sinn'd_; but, I think, not only without necessity, but with less
elegance.

II.vi.35 (142,7) [Myself in counsel, his competitor] _Myself, who
am his_ competitor _or_ rival, being admitted to his counsel.

II.vi.37 (142,8) [pretended flight] We may read _intended flight_.

II.vi.43 (142,9) [Love, lend me wings to make my purpose swift,
As thou hast lent me wit to plot this drift!]
I suspect that the author concluded the act with this couplet,
and that the next scene should begin the third act; but the
change, as it will add nothing to the probability of the action,
is of no great importance.

III.i.45 (146,1) [be not aimed at] Be not _guessed_.

III.i.47 (147,2) [of this pretence] Of this _claim_ made to your
daughter.

III.i.86 (148,4) [the fashion of the time] The modes of courtship,
the acts by which men recommended themselves to ladies.

III.i.148 (150,5) [for they are sent by me] _For_ is the same
as _for that, since_.

III.i.153 (150,6) [why, Phaeton (for thou art Merops' son)] Thou
art Phaeton in thy rashness, but without his pretensions; thou
art not the son of a divinity, but a _terrae filius_, a low born
wretch; Merops is thy true father, with whom Phaeton was
falsely reproached.

III.i.185 (151,7) [I fly not death, to fly his deadly doom] _To fly
his doom_, used for _by flying_, or _in flying_, is a gallicism.  The
sense is, By avoiding the execution of his sentence I shall not
escape death.  If I stay here, I suffer myself to be destroyed;
if I go away, I destroy myself.

III.i.261 (153,8) [_Laun_. I am but a fool, look you; and yet I have
the wit to think my master is a kind of a knave: but that's all
one, if he be but one knave] [W: but one kind] This alteration
is acute and specious, yet I know not whether, in Shakespeare's
language, _one knave_ may not signify a _knave on only one occasion_,
a _single knave_. We still use a _double villain_ for a
villain beyond the common rate of guilt.

III.i.265 (154,9) [a team of horse shall not pluck] I see how
Valentine suffers for telling his love-secrets, therefore I will keep
mine close.

III.i.330 (156,4) [_Speed. Item, she hath a. sweet mouth_] This I take
to be the same with what is now vulgarly called a _sweet tooth_,
a luxurious desire of dainties and sweetmeats.

III.i.351 (157,5) [_Speed. Item, she will often praise her liquor_]
That is, shew how well she likes it by drinking often.

III.i.355 (157,6) [_Speed. Item, she is too liberal_] _Liberal_, is
licentious and gross in language. So in _Othello_, "Is he not a
profane and very _liberal_ counsellor."

III.ii.7 (158,8) [Trenched in ice] Cut, carved in ice. _Trencher_,
to cut, French.

III.ii.36 (159,9) [with circumstance] With the addition of such
incidental particulars as may induce belief.

III.ii.51 (160,1)

  [Therefore as you unwind her love from him,
  Lest it should ravel, and be good to none,
  You must provide to bottom it on me]

As you wind off her love from him, make me the _bottom_ on which
you wind it. The housewife's term for a ball of thread wound
upon a central body, is a _bottom of thread_.

III.ii.68 (160,2) [lime] That is, _birdlime_.

III.ii.98 (161,4) [_Duke_. Even now about it.  I will pardon you]
I will excuse you from waiting.

IV.i.36 (163,2) [By the bare scalp of Robin Hood's fat friar]
_Robin Hood_ was captain of a band of robbers, and was much
inclined to rob churchmen.

IV.i.46 (163,3) [awful men] Reverend, worshipful, such as magistrates,
and other principal members of civil communities.

IV.ii.12 (165,1) [sudden quips] That is, hasty passionate reproaches
and scoffs. So Macbeth is in a kindred sense said to be _sudden_;
that is, irascible and impetuous.

IV.ii.45 (166,2) [_For beauty lives with kindness_] Beauty without
kindness _dies_ unenjoyed, and undelighting.

IV.ii.93 (168,4) [You have your wish; my will is even this] The word
_will_ is here ambiguous. He wishes to _gain_ her _will_; she tells
him, if he wants her _will_ he has it.

IV.ii.130 (169,5) [But, since your falsehood shall become you well]
This is hardly sense. We may read, with very little alteration,
But since _you're false_, it shall become you well.

IV.iii.37 (171,2) [Madam, I pity much your grievances] Sorrows,
sorrowful affections.

IV.iv.13 (172,1) [I would have, as one should say, one that takes
upon him to be a dog indeed, to be, as it were, a dog at all
things] I believe we should read, _I would have_. &c. _one that
takes upon him to be a dog_, to be a dog _indeed, to be_, &c.

IV.iv.79 (174,3) [It seems, you lov'd not her, to leave her token]
Protheus does not properly leave his lady's token, he gives it
away. The old edition has it,

  It seems you lov'd her not, _not_ leave her token.

I should correct it thus,

  It seems you lov'd her not, _nor love_ her token.

IV.iv.106 (175,4) [To carry that which I would have refus'd] The
sense is, To go and present that which I wish to be not accepted,
to praise him whom I wish to be dispraised.

IV.iv.159 (176,5)

  [The air hath starv'd the roses in her cheeks,
  And pinch'd the lily-tincture of her face.
  That now she is become as black as I]

[W: And pitch'd] This is no emendation; none ever heard of a face
being _pitched_ by the weather. The colour of a part _pinched_, is
livid, as it is commonly termed, _black and blue_. The weather may
therefore be justly said to _pinch_ when it produces the same
visible effect. I believe this is the reason why the cold is
said to _pinch_.

IV.iv.198 (179,2) [her forehead's low] A high forehead was in our
author's time accounted a feature eminently beautiful. So in
_The History of Guy of Warwick_, Felice his lady is said to have
_the same high forehead as Venus_.

IV.iv.206 (179,3) [My substance should be statue in thy stead] [W:
statued] _Statued_ is, I am afraid, a new word, and that it should
be received, is not quite evident.

V.i.12 (180,4) [sure enough] _Sure_ is safe, out of danger.

V.iv.71 (185,1) [The private wound is deepest. Oh time, most curst!]
I have a little mended the measure. The old edition, and all but
Sir T. Hammer, read,

  _The private wound is deepest_, _oh time most_ accurst.

V.iv.106 (187,4) [if shame live In a disguise of love] That is, _if
it be any shame to wear a disguise for the purposes of love_.

V.iv.126 (187,5) [Come not within the measure of my wrath] The
length of my sword, the reach of my anger.

General Observation (189,8) In this play there is a strange mixture
of knowledge and ignorance, of care and negligence. The versification
is often excellent, the allusions are learned and just;
but the author conveys his heroes by sea from one inland town to
another in the same country; he places the emperor at Milan, and
sends his young men to attend him, but never mentions him more;
he makes Protheus, after an interview with Silvia, say he has
only seen her picture; and, if we may credit the old copies, he
has, by mistaking places, left his scenery inextricable. The
reason of all this confusion seems to be, that he took his story
from a novel, which he sometimes followed, and sometimes forsook,
sometimes remembered, and sometimes forgot.

That this play is rightly attributed to Shakespeare, I have
little doubt. If it be taken from him, to whom shall it be
given? This question may be asked of all the disputed plays,
except _Titus Andronicus_; and it will be found more credible, that
Shakespeare might sometimes sink below his highest flights, than
that any other should rise up to his lowest. (see 1765, I,259,5)





THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR

I.i.7 (194,4) [_Custalorum_] This it, I suppose, intended for a
corruption of _Custos Rotulorum_. The mistake was hardly designed by
the author, who, though he gives Shallow folly enough, makes him
rather pedantic than illiterate. If we read:

  Shal. _Ay, cousin Slender, and_ Custos Rotulorum.

It follows naturally:

  Slen. _Ay, and_ Ratalorum _too_.

I.i.22 (194,5) [The luce is the fresh fish; the salt fish is an old
coat] I see no consequence in this answer.  Perhaps we may read,
_the salt fish is_ not _an old coat_. That is, the _fresh fish_ is the
coat of an ancient family, and the _salt fish_ is the coat of a
merchant grown rich by trading over the sea.

I.i.115 (198,1) [and broke open my lodge] This probably alludes to
some real incident, at that time well known.

I.i.121 (198,2) ['Twere better for you, if 'twere not known in council;
you'll be laugh'd at] The old copies read, '_Twere better for
you, if 'twere known in council_. Perhaps it is an abrupt speech,
and must be read thus: '_Twere better for you--if 'twere known in
council, you'll be laugh'd at.  'Twere better for you_, is, I believe,
a menace.(1773)

I.i.127 (199,3) [coney-catching rascals] A _coney-catcher_ was, in
the time of Elizabeth, a common name for a cheat or sharper.
Green, one of the first among us who made a trade of writing
pamphlets, published _A Detection of the Frauds and Tricks of
Coney-catchers and Couzeners_.

I.i.159 (200,6) [Edward shovel-boards] By this term, I believe, are
meant brass castors, such as are shoveled on a board, with king
Edward's face stamped upon them.

I.i.166 (201,8) [Word of denial in thy Labra's here] I suppose it
should rather be read,

  _Word of denial in_ my _Labra's_ hear;

that is, _hear_ the word of denial in my _lips. Thou ly'st_.

I.i.170 (201,9) [_marry trap_] When a man was caught in his own
stratagem, I suppose the exclamation of insult was _marry, trap_!

I.i.184 (202,3) [and so conclusions pass'd the careires] I believe
this strange word is nothing but the French _cariere_; and the
expression means, that _the common bounds of good behaviour were
overpassed_.

I.i.211 (203,4) [upon Allhallowmas last, a fortnight afore Michaelmas?]
[Theobald suspected that Shakespeare had written "Martlemas."]
This correction, thus seriously and wisely enforced, is
received by Sir Tho. Hammer; but probably Shakespeare intended a
blunder.

I.iii.56 (210,7) [The anchor is deep: will that humour pass?] I see
not what relation _the anchor_ has to _translation_. Perhaps we may
read, _the_ author _is deep_; or perhaps the line is out of its place,
and should be inserted lower after Falstaff has said,

    Sail like my pinnace to those golden shores.

It may be observed, that in the tracts of that time _anchor_ and
_author_ could hardly be distinguished. (see 1765, II,464,7)

I.iii.110 (213,6) [I will possess him with yellowness] _Yellowness_ is
jealousy. (1773)

I.iii.III (213,7) [for the revolt of mine is dangerous] I suppose we
may read, _the revolt_ of men. Sir T. Hammer reads, _this_ revolt of
_mine_. Either may serve, for of the present text I can find no
meaning.

I.iv.9 (213,8) [at the latter end of a sea-coal fire] That is, when
my master is in bed.

II.i.5 (219,1) [though love use reason for his precisian, he admits
him not for his counsellor] Of this word I do not see any meaning
that is very apposite to the present intention. Perhaps Falstaff
said, _Though love use reason as his_ physician, _he admits him not
for his counsellor_. This will be plain sense. Ask not the _reason_
of my love; the business of _reason_ is not to assist love, but
to _cure_ it. There may however be this meaning in the present
reading. _Though love_, when he would submit to regulation, may
_use reason as his precisian_, or director in nice cases, yet when
he is only eager to attain his end, he takes not reason for _his
counsellor_. (1773)

II.i.27 (220,2) [I was then frugal of my mirth] By breaking this
speech into exclamations, the text may stand; but I once thought
it must be read, If _I was_ not _then frugal of my mirth_.

II.i.29 (220,3) [Why, I'll exhibit a bill in the parliament for the
putting down of men] [T: of fat men] [W: of mum] I do not see that
any alteration is necessary; if it were, either of the foregoing
conjectures might serve the turn. But surely Mrs. Ford may
naturally enough, in the first heat of her anger, rail at the
sex for the fault of one.

II.i.52 (222,4) [These knights will hack, and so thou shouldst not
alter the article of thy gentry] [W: lack] Upon this passage the
learned editor has tried his strength, in my opinion, with more
spirit than success.

I read thus--_These knights_ we'll _hack, and so thou shouldest
not alter the article of thy gentry_. The punishment of a recreant
or undeserving knight, was to _hack_ off his spurs: the meaning
therefore is; it is not worth the while of a gentlewoman to
be made a knight, for we'll degrade all these knights in a little
time, by the usual form of _hacking_ off their spurs, and thou, if
thou art knighted, shalt be hacked with the rest.

II.i.79 (223,5) [for he cares not what he puts into the press]
Press is used ambiguously, for a _press_ to print, and a _press_ to
squeeze.

II.i.114 (224,7) [curtail-dog] That is, a dog that misses hie game.
The tail is counted necessary to the agility of a greyhound; and
one method of disqualifying a dog, according to the forest laws,
is to cut his tail, or make him a _curtail_. (see 1765, II,477,+)

II.i.128 (225,9) [Away, Sir corporal Nym.--Believe it, Page, he speaks
sense] Nym, I believe, is out of place, and we should read thus:

    _Away, Sir corporal._
    Nym. _Believe it. Page, he speaks sense._

II.i.135 (225,1) [I have a sword, and it shall bite upon my necessity.--He
loves your wife] [V: bite--upon my necessity, he] I do
not see the difficulty of this passage: no phrase is more common
than--_you may_, upon a need, _thus_. Nym, to gain credit, says,
that he is above the mean office of carrying love-letters; he
has nobler means of living; _he has a sword, and upon his necessity_,
that is, _when his need drives him to unlawful expedients_,
his sword _shall bite_.

II.i.148 (226,3) [I will not believe such a Cataian] [Theobald and
Warburton had both explained "Cataian" as a liar.] Mr. Theobald
and Dr. Warburton have both told their stories with confidence,
I am afraid, very disproportionate to any evidence that can be
produced. That _Cataian_ was a word of hatred or contempt is
plain, but that it signified a _boaster_ or a _liar_ has not been
proved. Sir Toby, in _Twelfth Night_, says of the Lady Olivia to
her maid, "thy Lady's a _Cataian_;" but there is no reason to
think he means to call her _liar_. Besides, Page intends to give
Ford a reason why Pistol should not be credited. He therefore
does not say, _I would not believe such a_ liar: for that he is a
liar is yet to be made probable: but he says, _I would not believe
such a Cataian on any testimony of his veracity_. That is, "This
fellow has such an odd appearance; is so unlike a man civilized,
and taught the duties of life, that I cannot credit him." To be
a foreigner was always in England, and I suppose everywhere else,
a reason of dislike. So Pistol calls Slender in the first act,
a _mountain foreigner_; that is, a fellow uneducated, and of gross
behaviour; and again in his anger calls Bardolph, _Hungarian wight_.

II.i.182 (228,4) [very rogues] A _rogue_ is a _wanderer_ or _vagabond_,
and, in its consequential signification, _a cheat_.

II.i.236 (230,7) [my long sword] Not long before the introduction
of rapiers, the swords in use were of an enormous length, and
sometimes raised with both hands. Shallow, with an old man's
vanity, censures the innovation by which lighter weapons were
introduced, tells what he could once have done with his _long
sword_, and ridicules the terms and rules of the rapier.

II.ii.28 (234,6) [red lattice phrases] Your ale-house conversation.

II.ii.28 (234,7) [your bold-beating oaths] [W: bold-bearing] A
_beating oath_ is, I think, right; so we now say, in low language, a
_thwacking_ or _swinging_ thing.

II.ii.61 (235,8) [canaries] This is the name of a brisk light
dance, and is therefore properly enough used in low language
for any hurry or perturbation.

II.ii.94 (236,1) [frampold] This word I have never seen elsewhere,
except in Dr. Hacket's _Life of Archbishop Williams_, where a
_frampul_ man signifies a peevish troublesome fellow.

II.ii.142 (238,3) [Clap on more sails; pursue; up with your fights]
[Warburton had quoted a passage from Dryden'a _Amboyna_ for "fights,"
explaining them as "small arms."] The quotation from Dryden might at
least have raised a suspicion that _fights_ were neither _small_ arms,
nor cannon. _Fights_ and _nettings_ are properly joined. _Fights_, I
find, are _cloaths_ hung round the ship to conceal the men from the
enemy, and _close-fights_ are _bulkheads_, or any other shelter that the
fabrick of a ship affords.

II.ii.170 (240,5) [not to charge you] That is, not with a purpose
of putting you to expence, or _being burthensome_.

II.ii.256 (242,6) [instance and argument] _Instance_ is _example_.

II.ii.324 (244,8) [Eleven o'clock] Ford should rather have said _ten
o'clock_: the time was between ten and eleven; and his impatient
suspicion was not likely to stay beyond the time.

II.iii.60 (246,2) [mock-water] The host means, I believe, to reflect
on the inspection of urine, which made a considerable part of
practical physick in that time; yet I do not well see the meaning
of _mock-water_.

III.i.17 (249,5) [By shallow rivers, to whose falls] [Warburton had
introduced _The Passionate Shepherd to his Love_ and _The Nymph's
_Reply_ at this point in his text, attributing both to Shakespeare.]
These two poems, which Dr. Warburton gives to Shakespeare, are, by
writers nearer that time, disposed of, one to Marlow, the other to
Raleigh. These poems are read in different copies with great
variations.

III.i.123 (253,6) [scald, scurvy] _Scall_ was an old word of reproach,
as _scab_ was afterwards.

    Chaucer imprecates on his _scrivener_;

      "Under thy longe lockes mayest thou have the _scalle_."

III.ii.58 (255,7) [We have linger'd about a match between Anne Page
and my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have our answer]
They have not linger'd very long. The match was proposed by Sir
Hugh but the day before.

III.ii.73 (256,1) [The gentleman is of no having] _Having_ is the same as
_estate_ or _fortune_.

III.ii.90 (257,2) [I think, I shall drink in pipe-wine first with
him] [Tyrwhitt: horn-pipe wine] _Pipe_ is known to be a vessel of
wine, now containing two hogsheads. _Pipe_ wine is therefore wine, not
from the _bottle_, but the _pipe_; and the text consists in the ambiguity
of the word, which signifies both a cask of wine, and a musical instrument.
_Horn-pipe wine_ has no meaning. (1773)

III.iii.60 (260,4) [that becomes the ship-tire, the tire-valiant,
or any tire of Venetian admittance] [Warburton had explained the
two tents as head-dresses, and "of Venetian admittance" as "which
will admit to be adorned."] This note is plausible, except in
the explanation of _Venetian admittance_: but I am afraid this
whole system of dress is unsupported by evidence.

III.iv.13 (267,7) [father's wealth] Some light may be given to those
who shall endear one to calculate the increase of English wealth,
by observing, that Latymer, in the time of Edward VI. mentions
it as proof of his father's prosperity, _That though but a yeoman.
he gave his daughters five pounds each for her portion_. At the
latter end of Elizabeth, seven hundred pounds were such a temptation
to courtship, as made all other motives suspected. Congreve
makes twelve thousand pounds more than a counterbalance to the
affectation of Belinda. Ho poet would now fly his favourite
character at less than fifty thousand.

III.iv.100 (270,1) [will you cast away your child on a fool and a
physician?] I should read _fool_ or a _physician_, meaning Slender and
Caius.

III.v.113 (274,4) [bilbo] A _bilbo_ is a Spanish blade, of which the
excellence is flexibleness and elasticity.

III.v.117 (274,5) [kidney] _Kidney_ in this phrase now signifies _kind_ or
_qualities_, but Falstaff means a man whose _kidnies_ are as _fat_ as mine.

III.v.155 (275,6) [I'll be horn-mad] There is no image which our
author appears so fond of, as that of cuckold's horns. Scarcely
a light character is introduced that does not endearor to produce
merriment by some allusion to horned husbands. As he wrote
his plays for the stage rather than the press, he perhaps reviewed
them seldom, and did not observe this repetition, or
finding the jest, however, frequent, still successful, did not
think correction necessary.

IV.i (276,7) [_Page's house_. _Enter Mrs. Page. Mrs. Quickly, and William_]
This is a very trifling scene, of no use to the plot, and I should think
of no great delight to the audience; but Shakespeare best knew what would
please.

IV.ii.22 (879,8) [he so takes on] _To take on_, which is now used for
_to, grieve_, seems to be used by our author for _to, rage_. Perhaps it was
applied to any passion.

IV.ii.26 (279,9) [buffets himself on the forehead, crying, _peer-
out, peer-out_!] That is, appear horns. Shakespeare is at his
old lunes. (see 1765, II, 526,+)

IV.ii.161 (283,1) [this wrongs you] This is below your character,
unworthy of your understanding, injurious to your honour. So
in _The Taming of the Shrew_, Bianca, being ill treated by her
rugged sister, says:
  "You _wrong_ me much, indeed you _wrong_ yourself."

IV.ii.195 (284,2) [ronyon!] _Ronyon_, applied to a woman, means, as far as
can be traced, much the same with _scall_ or _scab_ spoken of a man.

IV.ii.204 (284,3) [I spy a great peard under his muffler] As the
second stratagem, by which Falstaff escapes, is much the grosser
of the two, I wish it had been practiced first. It is very unlikely that
Ford, baring been so deceived before, and knowing that he had been
deceived, would suffer him to escape in so slight a disguise.

IV.ii.208 (284,4) [cry out upon no trail] The expression is taken from
the hunters. _Trail_  is the scent left by the passage of the game. _To
cry out_, is to _open_ or _bark_.

IV.iii.13 (285,5) [they must come off] _To come off_, signifies in our
author, sometimes _to be uttered with spirit and volubility_. In this
place it seems to mean what is in our time expressed by _to come down_,
to pay liberally and readily. These accidental and colloquial senses are
the disgrace of language, and the plague of commentators.

IV.iv.32 (287,7) [And there he blasts the tree, and takes the cattle]
To _take_, in Shakespeare, signifies to seize or strike with a
disease, to blast. So in _Hamlet_;

  "No planet _takes_."

So in _Lear_;

  "-----Strike her young bones,
  "Ye taking airs, with lameness." (rev. 1778,I,341,4)

IV.v.7 (290,3) [standing-bed, and truckle-bed] The usual furniture of
chambers in that time was a standing-bed, under which was a _trochle,
truckle_, or _running_ bed. In the standing-bed lay the master, and in
the truckle-bed the servant. So in Hall's _Account of a Servile Tutor_:

  "He lieth in the _truckle-bed_.
  "While his young master lieth o'er his head."

IV.v.21 (291,4) [Bohemian-Tartar] The French call a _Bohemian_  what we
call a _Gypsey_; but I believe the Host means nothing more than, by a wild
appellation, to insinuate that Simple makes a strange appearance.

IV. v. 29 (291, 5) [mussel-shell] He calls poor Simple mussel-shell,
because he stands with his mouth open.

IV. v. 104 (293, 6) [_Primero_] A game at cards.

IV. v. 122 (294, 7) [counterfeiting the action of an old woman] [T: a wood
woman] This emendation is received by Sir Thomas Hammer,
but rejected by Dr. Warburton. To me it appears reasonable
enough.

IV. v. 130 (294, 8) [sure, one of you does not serve heaven well, that
you are so cross'd] The great fault of this play, is the frequency of
expressions so profane, that no necessity of preserving
character can justify them. There are laws of higher authority
than those of criticism.

V. v. 28 (300, 3) [my shoulders for the fellow of this walk] Who the
_fellow_ is, or why he keeps his shoulders for bin, I do not understand.

V. v. 77 (304, 9) [Fairies use flowers for their charactery] For the
matter with which they make letters.

V. v. 84 (304, 1) [I smell a man of middle earth] Spirits are supposed
to inhabit the ethereal regions, and fairies to dwell under
ground, men therefore are in a middle station.

V. v. 99 (305, 4) [_Lust is but a bloody fire_] So the old copies.  I once
thought it should be read,

  _Lust is but a_ cloudy _fire_,

but Sir T. Hammer reads with less violence,

  _Lust is but_ i' the blood a _fire_.

V. v. 172 (308, 8) [ignorance itself is a plummet o'er me] Though this
be perhaps not unintelligible, yet it is an odd way of confessing
his dejection. I should wish to read:

     --_ignorance itself_ has a plume o' me;

That is, I am so depressed, that ignorance itself plucks me, and
decks itself with the spoils of my weakness.  Of the present
reading, which is probably right, the meaning may be, I am so enfeebled,
that _ignorance itself_ weighs me down and oppresses me. (see 1765, II,
554, 1)

V. v. 181 (309, 1) [laugh at my wife] The two plots are excellently
connected, and the transition very artfully made in this speech.

V. v. 249 (311, 2) [_Page_. Tell, what remedy?] In the first sketch of
this play, which, as Mr. Pope observes, is much inferior to the latter
performance, the only sentiment of which I regret the omission, occurs
at this critical time, when Fenton brings in his wife, there is this
dialogue.

          Mrs. Ford. _Come, mistress Page. I must be bold with you.
          'Tis pity to part love that is so true._

Mrs. Page. [Aside] _Although that I have miss'd in my intent,
Yet I am glad my husband's match is cross'd.
--Here Fenton. take her.--_

Eva. _Come, master Page, you must needs agree._

Ford. _I' faith, Sir, come, you see your wife is pleas'd._

Page. _I cannot tell, and yet my heart is eas'd;
And yet it doth me good the Doctor miss'd.
Come hither, Fenton, and come hither, daughter._ (1773)

General Observation. Of this play there is a tradition preserved
by Mr. Rowe, that it was written at the command of queen Elizabeth,
who was so delighted with the character of Falstaff, that
she wished it to be diffused through more plays; but suspecting
that it might pall by continued uniformity, directed the poet to
diversify his manner, by shewing him in love. No task is harder
than that of writing to the ideas of another. Shakespeare knew
what the queen, if the story be true, seems not to have known,
that by any real passion of tenderness, the selfish craft, the
careless jollity, and the lazy luxury of Falstaff must have suffered
so much abatement, that little of his former cast would
have remained. Falstaff could not love, but by ceasing to be
Falstaff. He could only counterfeit love, and his professions
could be prompted, not by the hope of pleasure, but of money.
Thus the poet approached as near as he could to the work enjoined him;
yet having perhaps in the former plays completed his
own idea, seems not to have been able to give Falstaff all his
former power of entertainment.

This comedy is remarkable for the variety and number of the
personages, who exhibit more characters appropriated and discriminated,
than perhaps can be found in any other play.

Whether Shakespeare was the first that produced upon the English
stage the effect of language distorted and depraved by provincial
or foreign pronunciations, I cannot certainly decide.
This mode of forming ridiculous characters can confer praise
only on him, who originally discovered it, for it requires not
much of either wit or judgment: its success must be derived almost
wholly from the player, but its power in a skilful month,
even he that despises it, is unable to resist.

The conduct of this drama is deficient; the action begins and
ends often before the conclusion, and the different parts might
change places without inconvenience; but its general power, that
power by which all works of genius shall finally be tried, is
such, that perhaps it never yet had reader or spectator, who did
not think it too soon at an end.





Vol. II


MEASURE FOR MEASURE

Persons Represented: Varrius might be omitted, for he is only
once spoken to, and says nothing.

There it perhaps not one of Shakespeare's plays more darkened
than this by the peculiarities of its authour, and the
unskilfulness of its editors, by distortions of phrase, or
negligence of transcription.

I.i.6 (4,4) [lists] Bounds, limits.

I.i.7 (4,5) [Then no more remains,
           But that your sufficiency, as your worth is able,
           And let them work]

This is a passage which has exercised the sagacity of the
editors, and is now to employ mine. [Johnson adds T's and W's
notes] Sir Tho. Hammer, having caught from Mr. Theobald a
hint that a line was lost, endeavours to supply it thus.

 --_Then no more remains,
  But that to your sufficiency_ you join
  A will to serve us, _as your worth is able_.

He has by this bold conjecture undoubtedly obtained a meaning,
but, perhaps not, even in his own opinion, the meaning of
Shakespeare.

That the passage is more or less corrupt, I believe every reader will
agree with the editors.  I am not convinced that a line is lost, as Mr.
Theobald conjectures, nor that the change of _but_ to _put_, which Dr.
Warburton has admitted after some other editor, will amend the fault.
There was probably some original obscurity in the expression, which gave
occasion to mistake in repetition or transcription.  I therefore suspect
that the authour wrote thus,

   --_Then no more remains.
    But that to your_ sufficiencies _your worth is_ abled,
    _And let them work.

Then nothing remains more than to tell you, that your virtue is now
invested with power equal to your knowledge and wisdom. Let
therefore your knowledge and your virtue now work together._ It may
easily be conceived how _sufficiencies_ was, by an inarticulate
speaker, or inattentive hearer, confounded with _sufficiency as_,
and how _abled_, a word very unusual, was changed into _able_. For
_abled_, however, an authority is not wanting. Lear uses it in the
same sense, or nearly the same, with the Duke. As for
_sufficiencies_, D. Hamilton, in his dying speech, prays that
Charles II. _may exceed both the_ virtues _and_ sufficiencies _of
his father_.

I.i.11 (6,6) [the terms For common justice, you are as pregnant in]
The later editions all give it, without authority,

   --_the terms_
    Of _justice_,--

and Dr. Warburton makes _terms_ signify _bounds_ or _limits_.  I
rather think the Duke meant to say, that Escalus was _pregnant_,
that is, _ready_ and knowing in all the forms of law, and, among
other things, in the _terms_ or _times set apart_ for its
administration.

I.i.18 (7,7) [we have with special soul Elected him our absence to
supply] [W: roll] This editor is, I think, right in supposing a
corruption, but less happy in his emendation. I read,

   --_we have with special_ seal
    _Elected him our absence to supply_.

A special _seal_ is a very natural metonymy for a special _commission_.

I.i.28 (8,8)

    [There is a kind of character in thy life,
    That to the observer doth thy history
    Fully unfold]

Either this introduction has more solemnity than meaning, or it
has a meaning which I cannot discover. What is there peculiar
in this, that a man's _life_ informs the observer of his _history_?
Might it be supposed that Shakespeare wrote this?

    _There is a kind of character in thy_ look.

_History_ may be taken in a more diffuse and licentious meaning,
for _future occurrences_, or the part of life yet to come.
If this sense be received, the passage is clear and proper.

I.i.37 (8,1) [to fine issues] To great consequences. For high purposes.

I.i.41 (9,2) [But I do bend my speech To one that can my part in
him advertise] I know not whether we may not better read,

    _One that can my part_ to _him advertise_,

One that can _inform himself_ of that which it would be otherwise
_my part_ to tell him.

I.i.43 (9,3) [Hold therefore, Angelo] That is, continue to be
Angelo; _hold_ as thou art.

I.i.47 (9,4) [first in question] That is, first called for; first
appointed.

I.i.52 (9,5) [We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice Proceeded
to you] [W: a levell'd] No emendation is necessary. _Leaven'd_
choice is one of Shakespeare's harsh metaphors. His train of
ideas seems to be this. _I have proceeded to you with choice_
mature, concocted, fermented, _leavened_. When bread is _leavened_
it is left to ferment: a _leavened_ choice is therefore a choice
not hasty, but considerate, not declared as soon as it fell
into the imagination, but suffered to work long in the mind.
Thus explained, it suits better with _prepared_ than _levelled_.

I.i.65 (10,6) [your scope is as mine own] That is, Your amplitude
of power.

I.ii.22 (12,7) [in metre?] In the primers, there are metrical graces,
such as, I suppose, were used in Shakespeare's time.

I.ii.25 (12,9) [Grace is grace, despight of all controversy] [Warbarton
had suspected an allusion to ecclesiastical disputes.] I
am in doubt whether Shakespeare's thoughts reached so far into
ecclesiastical disputes. Every commentator is warped a little
by the tract of his own profession.  The question is, whether the
second gentleman has ever heard grace. The first gentleman limits
the question to _grace in metre_. Lucio enlarges it to _grace
in any_ form _or language_. The first gentleman, to go beyond him,
says, or _in any religion_, which Lucio allows, because the nature
of things is unalterable; grace is as immutably grace, as his
merry antagonist is a _wicked villain_. Difference in religion
cannot make a _grace_ not to be _grace_, a _prayer_ not to be _holy_; as
nothing can make a _villain_ not to be a _villain_. This seems to
be the meaning, such as it is.

I.ii.28 (12,1) [there went but a pair of sheers between us] We are
both of the same piece.

I.ii.35 (13,2) [be pil'd, as thou art pil'd, for a French velvet?]
The jest about the pile of a French velvet alludes to the loss of
hair in the French disease, a very frequent topick of our authour's
jocularity. Lucio finding that the gentleman understands the distemper
so well, and mentions it so _feelingly_, promises to remember
to drink his _health_, but to forget _to drink after him_. It was the
opinion of Shakespeare's time, that the cup of an infected person
was contagious.

I.ii.50 (13,3) [To three thousand dollars a year] [A quibble intended
between _dollars_ and _dolours_. Hammer.] The same jest occured before
in the _Tempest_.

I.ii.83 (15,5) [what with the sweat] This nay allude to the _sweating
sickness_, of which the memory was very fresh in the time of
Shakespeare: but more probably to the method of cure then used
for the diseases contracted in brothels.

I.ii.124 (16,6)

    [Thus can the demi-god, Authority,
    Make us pay down, for our offence, by weight.--
    The words of heaven;--on whom it will, it will;
    On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just]

[Warburton had emended the punctuation of the second line] I
suspect that a line is lost.

I.ii.162 (18,8) [the fault, and glimpse, of newness] _Fault_ and
_glimpse_ have so little relation to each other, that both can
scarcely be right: we may read _flash_ for _fault_ or, perhaps we
may read,

    _Whether it be the fault_ or _glimpse_--

That is, whether it be the seeming enormity of the action, or
the glare of new authority. Yet the sane sense follows in the
next lines, (see 1765, I, 275, 4)

I.ii.188 (19,2) [There is a prone and speechless dialect] I can
scarcely tell what signification to give to the word _prone_. Its
primitive and translated senses are well known. The authour
may, by a _prone_ dialect, mean a dialect which men are _prone_ to
regard, or a dialect natural and unforced, as those actions seem
to which we are _prone_. Either of these interpretations are
sufficiently strained; but such distortion of words is not uncommon
in our authour. For the sake of an easier sense, we may read,

   --_In her youth
    There is a_ pow'r, _and speechless dialect,
    Such as moves men._

Or thus,

    _There is a_ prompt _and speechless dialect._

I.ii.194 (20,3) [under grievous imposition] I once thought it
should be _inquisition_, but the present reading is probably
right. _The crime would be under grievous_ penalties imposed.

I.iii.2 (20,4) [Believe not, that the dribbling dart of love Can
pierce a compleat bosom] Think not that a breast _compleatly
armed_ can be pierced by the dart of love that comes _fluttering
without force_.

I.iii.12 (21,5) [(A man of stricture and firm abstinence)] [W: strict ure]
_Stricture_ may easily be used for _strictness_; _ure_ is indeed
an old word, but, I think, always applied to things, never to
persons.

I.iii.43 (22,9) [To do it slander] The text stood,

    _So do in slander_.--

Sir Thomas Hammer has very well corrected it thus,

    To _do_ it _slander_.--

Yet perhaps less alteration might have produced the true reading,

    _And yet my nature never, in the fight,_
    So _do_ing _slander_ed.--

And yet my nature never suffer slander by doing any open acts of
severity. (see 1765, I,279,3)

I.iii.51 (23,2) [Stands at a guard] Stands on terms of defiance.

I.iv.30 (24,3) [make me not your story] Do not, by deceiving me,
make me a subject for a tale.

I.iv.41 (26,5)

        [as blossoming time
    That from the seedness the bare fallow brings
    To teeming foyson, so her plenteous womb
    Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry]

As the sentence now stands, it is apparently ungrammatical. I
read,

    At _blossoming time_, &c.

That is, _As they that feed grow full, so her womb now_ at blossoming
time, _at that time through which the feed time proceeds to
the harvest_, her womb shows what has been doing. Lucio ludicrously
calls pregnancy _blossoming time_, the time when fruit is promised,
though not yet ripe.

I.iv.51 (26,6) [Bore many gentlemen, myself being one, In hand, and
hope of action] _To bear in hand_ is a common phrase for _to keep
in expectation and dependance_, but we should read,

   --with _hope of action_.

I.iv.56 (26,7) [with full line] With full extent, with the whole
length.

I.iv.62 (27,8) [give fear to use] To intimidate _use_, that is, practices
long countenanced by _custom_.

I.iv.69 (27,9) [Unless you have the grace] That is, the acceptableness,
the power of gaining favour. So when she makes her suit,
the provost says,

    _Heaven give thee moving_ graces. (1765, I,282,1)

I.iv.70 (27,1) [pith Of business] The inmost part, the main of my
message.

I.iv.86 (28,4) [the mother] The abbess, or prioress.

II.i.8 (29,7) [Let but your honour know] To _know_ is here to _examine_,
to _take cognisance_. So in _Midsummer-Night's Dream_,

    _Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires_;
    Know of _your truth, examine well your blood_.

II.i.23 (29,8)

            ['Tis very pregnant,
    The jewel that we find, we stoop and take it,
    Because we see it; but what we do not see,
    We tread upon, and never think of it]

'Tis _plain_ that we must act with bad as with good; we punish the
faults, as we take the advantages, that lie in our way, and what
we do not see we cannot note.

II.i.28 (30,8) [For I have had such faults] That is, _because, by
reason that I_ have had faults.

II.i.57 (31,9) [This comes off well] This is nimbly spoken; this is
volubly uttered.

II.i.63 (32,1) [a tapster, sir; parcel-bawd] This we should now express
by saying, _he is_ half-tapster, half-bawd. (1773)

II.i.66 (32,2) [she professes a hot-house] A _hot-house_ is an English
name for a _bagnio_.

    _Where lately harbour'd many a famous whore,
    A purging-bill now fix'd upon the door,
    Tells you it it a_ hot-house, _so it may.
    And still be a whore-house_. Ben. Jonson.

II.i.85 (32,3) [Ay, sir, by mistress Over-done's means] Here seems
to have been some mention made of Froth, who was to be accused,
and some words therefore may have been lost, unless the irregularity
of the narrative may be better imputed to the ignorance
of the constable.

II.i.180 (35,4) [Justice or Iniquity?] These were, I suppose, two
personages well known to the audience by their frequent appearance
in the old moralities. The words, therefore, at that time,
produced a combination of ideas, which they have now lost.

II.i.183 (35,5) [Hannibal] Mistaken by the constable for _Cannibal_.

II.i.215 (36,6) [they will draw you] _Draw_ has here a cluster of
senses. As it refers to the tapster, it signifies _to drain, to
empty_; as it is related to hang, it means _to be conveyed to execution
on a hurdle_. In Froth's answer, it is the same as _to
bring along by some motive or power_.

II.i.254 (37,7) [I'll rent the fairest house in it, after three
pence a bay] A _bay_ of building is, in many parts of England, a
common term, of which the best conception that I could ever attain,
is, that it is the space between the main beams of the
roof; so that a barn crossed twice with beams is a barn of three
_bays_.

II.ii.26 (40,8) [Stay yet a while] It is not clear why the provost
is bidden to stay, nor when he goes out.

II.ii.32 (40,9) [For which I must not plead but that I am
at war, 'twixt will, and will not]
This is obscure; perhaps it may be mended by reading,

  _For which I must_ now _plead; but_ yet _I am
  At war, 'twixt will, and will not._

_Yet_ and _yt_ are almost indistinguishable in a manuscript.  Yet no
alteration is necessary, since the speech is not unintelligible
as it now stands, (see 1765, 9I,294,5)

II.ii.78 (42,2) [And mercy then will breathe within your lips, Like
man new made] I rather think the meaning is, _You would then
change the severity of your present character_.  In familiar
speech, _You would be quite another man_. (see 1765, 1,296,7)

II.ii.99 (43,6)

[_Isab_. Yet shew some pity.
_Ang_.  I shew it most of all, when I shew justice;
For then I pity those I do not know]

This was one of Bale's memorials. _When I find myself swayed to
mercy, let me remember, that there is a mercy likewise due to
the country_.

II.ii.126 (45,2) [We cannot weigh our brother with ourself] [W: yourself]
The old reading is right. _We_ mortals proud and foolish cannot
prevail on our passions to _weigh_ or compare _our brother_, a
being of like nature and frailty, with _ourself_. We have different
names and different judgments for the same faults committed by
persons of different condition. (1773)

II.ii.141 (46,3) [She speaks, and 'tis Such sense, that my sense
breeds with it] Thus all the folios. Some later editor has
changed _breeds_ to _bleeds_, and Dr. Warburton blames poor Mr. Theobald
for recalling the old word, which yet is certainly right.
_My sense_ breeds _with her sense_, that is, new thoughts are stirring
in my mind, new conceptions are _hatched_ in my imagination.

So we say to _brood_ over thought.

II.ii.149 (46,4) [tested gold] Rather cupelled, brought to the _test_,
refined,  (see 1765,I,299,6)

II.ii.157 (47,6) [For I am that way going to temptation, Where
prayers cross] Which way Angelo is going to temptation, we begin
to perceive; but how _prayers cross_ that way, or cross each other,
at that way, more than any other, I do not understand.

Isabella prays that his _honour_ may be safe, meaning only to
give him his title: his imagination is caught by the word _honour_;
he feels that his _honour_ is in danger, and therefore, I believe,
answers thus:

_I am that way going to temptation_,
Which your _prayers cross_.

That is, I am tempted to lose that honour of which thou implorest
the preservation. The temptation under which I labour is that
which thou hast unknowingly _thwarted_ with thy prayer. He uses the
same mode language a few lines lower.  Isabella, parting, says,
Save your _honour_!
Angelo catches the word--_Save it_! _From what_?
_From thee; even from thy virtue_!--(rev. 1778,II,52,3)

II.ii.165 (47,7)

        [But it is I,
That lying, by the violet, in the sun,
Do, as the carrion does, not as the flower,
Corrupt with virtuous season.]

I am not corrupted by her, but by my own heart, which excites
foul desires under the same benign influences that exalt her
purity, as the carrion grows putrid by those beams which encrease
the fragrance of the violet.

II.ii.186 (48,8) [Ever, till now, When men were fond, I smil'd,
and wonder'd how] As a day must now intervene between this conference
of Isabella with Angelo, and the next, the act might
more properly end here; and here, in my opinion, it was ended by
the poet.

II.iii.11 (49,1) [Who falling in the flaws of her own youth, Hath
blister'd her report] Who doth not see that the integrity of the
metaphor requires we should read, --_flames of her own youth_?
Warburton.]

Who does not see that, upon such principles, there is no end of
correction?

II.iii.36 (50,3) [There rest] Keep yourself in this temper.

II.iii.40 (50,4) [Oh, injurious love] Her execution was respited on
account of her pregnancy, the effects of her love: therefore she
calls it _injurious_; not that it brought her to shame, but that
it hindered her freeing herself from it.  Is not this all very
natural? yet the Oxford editor changes it to _injurious law_.

II.iv.9 (51,6) [Grown fear'd and tedious] [W: sear'd] I think _fear'd_

may stand. What we go to with reluctance may be said to be
_fear'd_.

II.iv.13 (51,7) [case] For outside; garb; external shew.

II.iv.14 (51,8) [Wrench awe from fools, and tie the wiser souls To
thy false seeming?] Here Shakespeare judiciously distinguishes
the different operations of high place upon different minds.
Fools are frighted, and wise men are allured. Those who cannot
judge but by the eye, are easily awed by splendour; those who
consider men as well as conditions, are easily persuaded to love
the appearance of virtue dignified with power.

II.iv.16 (51,9) [Let's write good angel on the devil's horn; 'Tis
not the devil's crest] [Hammer: Is't not the devil's crest] I am
still inclined to the opinion of the Oxford editor. Angelo,
reflecting on the difference between his seeming character, and
his real disposition, observes, that he _could change his gravity
for a plume_. He then digresses into an apostrophe, _O dignity,
how dost thou impose upon the world_! then returning to himself,
_Blood_, says he, _thou art but blood_, however concealed with
appearances and decorations. Title and character do not alter
nature, which is still corrupt, however dignified.

    _Let's write good angel on the devil's horn_;
    _Is't not_?--or rather--_'Tis yet the devil's crest_.

It may however be understood, according to Dr. Warburton's
explanation. O place, how dost thou impose upon the world by
false appearances! so much, that if we _write good angel on the
devil's horn, 'tis not_ taken any longer to be _the devil's crest_.
In this sense,

    _Blood, thou art but blood._!

is an interjected exclamation. (1773)

II.iv.27 (53,1) [The gen'ral subjects to a well-wish'd king] So the
later editions: but the old copies read,

    _The_ general subject _to a well-wish'd king_.

The _general subject_ seems a harsh expression, but _general
subjects_ has no sense at all; and _general_ was, in our authour's
time, a word for _people_, so that the _general_ is the _people_, or
_multitude, subject_ to a king. So in _Hamlet_: _The play pleased
not the_ million; _'twas caviare to the_ general.

II.iv.47 (54,3) [Falsely to take away a life true made] _Falsely_ is
the same with _dishonestly, illegally_: so _false_, in the next
lines, is _illegal, illegitimate_.

II.iv.48 (54,4) [As to put metal in restrained means] In forbidden
moulds. I suspect _means_ not to be the right word, but I cannot
find another.

II.iv.50 (55,5) ['Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth] I
would have it considered, whether the train of the discourse
does not rather require Isabel to say,

    _'Tis so set down in_ earth, _but not in_ heaven.

When she has said this, _Then_, says Angelo, _I shall poze you
quickly_. Would you, who, for the present purpose, declare your
brother's crime to be less in the sight of heaven, than the law
has made it; would you commit that crime, light as it is, to
save your brother's life? To this she answers, not very plainly
in either reading, but more appositely to that which I
propose:

    _I had rather give my body, than my soul_.  (1773)

II.iv.67 (56,6)

    [Pleas'd you to do't at peril of your soul,
    Were equal poize of sin and charity]

The reasoning is thus: Angelo asks, whether there might _not be
a charity in sin to save this brother_. Isabella answers, that
_if Angelo will save him, she will stake her soul that it were
charity, not sin_. Angelo replies, that if Isabella would _save
him at the hazard of her soul, it would be not indeed no sin,
but a sin to which the charity would be equivalent_.

II.iv.73 (56,7) [And nothing of your answer] I think it should be
read,

    _And nothing of_ yours _answer_.

You, and whatever is _yours_, be exempt from penalty.

II.iv.86 (56,9) [Accountant to the law upon that pain] _Pain_ is here
for _penalty, punishment_.

II.iv.90 (57,2) [But in the loss of question,] The _loss_ of
question I do not well understand, and should rather read,

    _But in the_ toss _of question_.

In the _agitation_, in the _discussion_ of the question. To _toss_
an argument is a common phrase.

II.iv.106 (57,4) [a brother dy'd at once] Perhaps we should read,

    _Better it were, a brother died_ for _once,
    Than that a sister, by redeeming him.
    Should die_ for _ever_.

II.iv.123 (58,6) [Owe, and succeed by weakness] To _owe_ is, in this
place, to _own_, to _hold_, to have possession.

II.iv.125 (59,7) [the glasses where they view themselves; Which are
as easily broke, as they make forms] Would it not be better to
read,
   ----take _forms_.

II.iv.128 (59,8) [In profiting by them] In imitating them, in taking
them for examples.

II.iv.139 (59,1)

    [I have no tongue but one. Gentle my lord,
    Let me intreat you, speak the former language]

Isabella answers to his circumlocutory courtship, that she has
but _one tongue_, she does not understand this new phrase, and
desires him to talk his _former language_, that is, to talk as he
talked before.

II.iv.150 (60,3) [Seeming, seeming!] Hypocrisy, hypocrisy; counterfeit
virtue.

II.iv.156 (60,4) [My Touch against you] [The calling his denial of
her charge _his vouch_, has something fine. _Vouch_ is the testimony
one man bears for another. So that, by this, he insinuates
his authority was so great, that his _denial_ would have the same
credit that a _vouch_ or testimony has in ordinary cases. Warburton.]
I believe this beauty is merely imaginary, and that _vouch
against_ means no more than denial.

II.iv.165 (60,5) [die the death] This seems to be a solemn phrase
for death inflicted by law. So in _Midsummer Night's Dream_.

    _Prepare_ to die the death.

II.iv.178 (61,6) [prompture] Suggestion, temptation, instigation.

III.i.5 (62,8) [Be absolute for death] Be determined to die, without
any hope of life. _Horace_,--

   --_The hour, which exceeds expectation will be welcome._

III.i.7 (62,9) [I do lose a thing, That none but fools would keep]
[W: would reck] The meaning seems plainly this, that _none but
fools would_ wish _to keep life_; or, _none but fools would keep_ it,
if choice were allowed. A sense, which whether true or not, is
certainly innocent.

III.i.14 (63,3) [For all the accommodations, that thou bear'st Are
nurs'd by baseness] Dr. Warburton is undoubtedly mistaken in
supposing that by _baseness_ is meant _self-love_ here assigned as
the motive of all human actions. Shakespeare only meant to
observe, that a minute analysis of life at once destroys that
splendour which dazzles the imagination. Whatever grandeur can
display, or luxury enjoy, is procured by _baseness_, by offices of
which the mind shrinks from the contemplation. All the delicacies
of the table may be traced back to the shambles and the
dunghill, all magnificence of building was hewn from the quarry,
and all the pomp of ornaments dug from among the damps and
darkness of the mine.

III.i.16 (64,4) [the soft and tender fork Of a poor worm] _Worm_ is
put for any creeping thing or _serpent_. Shakespeare supposes
falsely, but according to the vulgar notion, that a serpent
wounds with his tongue, and that his tongue is _forked_. He
confounds reality and fiction, a serpent's tongue is _soft_ but not
_forked_ nor hurtful. If it could hurt, it could not be soft. In
_Midsummer Night's Dream_ he has the same notion.

   --_With_ doubler _tongue
    Than thine, O serpent, never adder_ stung.

III.i.17 (64,5)

        [Thy best of rest is sleep,
    And that thou oft provok'st; yet grosly fear'st
    Thy death which is no more]

Here Dr. Warburton might have found a sentiment worthy of his

animadversion. I cannot without indignation find Shakespeare
saying, that _death is only sleep_, lengthening out his exhortation
by a sentence which in the friar is impious, in the reasoner
is foolish, and in the poet trite and vulgar.

III.i.19 (64,6)

        [Thou art not thyself,
    For thou exist'st on many thousand grains,
    That issue out of dust]

Thou art perpetually repaired and renovated by external assistance,
thou subsistest upon foreign matter, and hast no power of
producing or continuing thy own being.

III.i.24 (64,7) [strange effects] For _effects_ read _affects_; that is,
_affections_, _passions_ of mind, or disorders of body variously
_affected_. So in _Othello_, _The young_ affects.

III.i.32 (65,9)

        [Thou hast nor youth, nor age;
    But, as it were, an after-dinner's sleep,
    Dreaming on both]

This is exquisitely imagined. When we are young, we busy
ourselves in forming schemes for succeeding time, and miss the
gratifications that are before us; when we are old, we amuse the
languor of age with the recollection of youthful pleasures or
performances; so that our life, of which no part is filled with
the business of the present time, resembles our dreams after
dinner, when the events of the morning are mingled with the
designs of the evening.

III.i.34 (65,1)

        [for all thy blessed youth
    Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms
    Of palsied eld]

[W: for pall'd, thy blazed youth Becomes assuaged] Here again I
think Dr. Warburton totally mistaken. Shakespeare declares that
man has _neither youth nor age_; for in _youth_, which is the
_happiest_ time, or which might be the happiest, he commonly wants
means to obtain what he could enjoy; he is dependent on _palsied
eld_; _must beg alms_ from the coffers of hoary avarice: and being
very niggardly supplied, _becomes as aged_, looks, like an old man,
on happiness which is beyond his reach. And when _he is old and
rich_, when he has wealth enough for the purchase of all that
formerly excited his desires, he has no longer the powers of enjoyment,

   --_has neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty,
    To make _his _riches pleasant_.--

I have explained this passage according to the present reading,
which may stand without much inconvenience; yet I am willing to
persuade my reader, because I have almost persuaded myself, that
our authour wrote,

   --_for all thy_ blasted _youth
    Becomes as aged_--


III.i.37 (66,2) [Thou has neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty
To make thy riches pleasant] [W: nor bounty] I am inclined to
believe, that neither man nor woman will have much difficulty to
tell how _beauty makes riches pleasant_. Surely this emendation,
though it it elegant and ingenious, is not such as that an opportunity of
inserting it should be purchased by declaring ignorance
of what every one knows, by confessing insensibility to what
every one feels.

III.i.40 (66,3) [more thousand deaths] For this sir T. Hammer reads,
----_ a thousand deaths_:----
The meaning is not only  _a thousand deaths_, but _a thousand deaths_
besides what have been mentioned.

III.i.55 (67,5) [Why, as all comforts are; most good in Deed] If this
reading be right, Isabella must mean that she brings something
better than _words_ of comfort, she brings an assurance of _deeds_.
This is harsh and constrained, but I know not what better to offer.  Sir
Thomas Hammer reads,--_in_ speed.

III.i.59 (68,6) [an everlasting leiger. Therefore your best appointment]
_Leiger_ is the same with resident. _Appointment_; preparation;
act of fitting, or state of being fitted for any thing. So
in old books, we have a knight well _appointed_; that is, well
armed and mounted or fitted at all points.

III.i.68 (68,8)

  [Tho' all the world's vastidity you had,
  To a determin'd scope]

A confinement of your mind to one painful idea; to ignominy, of
which the remembrance can neither be suppressed nor escaped.

III.i.79 (69,9)

  [And the poor beetle, that we tread upon,
  In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great,
  As when a giant dies]

The reasoning is, _that death is no more than every being must
suffer, though the dread of it is peculiar to man_; or perhaps,
that_ we are inconsistent with ourselves, when we so much dread
that which we carelessly inflict on other creatures, that feel
the pain as acutely as we.

III.i.91 (69,1) [follies doth emmew] Forces follies to lie in cover
without daring to show themselves.

III.1.93 (69,3) [His filth within being cast] To _cast_ a pond is
to empty it of mud.

Mr. Upton reads,
  _His_ pond _within being cast, he would appear
  A_ filth _as deep as hell_.

III.1.94 (70,4)
            [_Claud_. The princely Angelo?
            _Isab_.  Oh, 'tis the cunning livery of hell,
              The damned'st body to invest and cover
              In princely guards!]

[W: priestly guards] The first folio has, in both places, _prenzie_,

from which the other folios made _princely_, and every editor may
make what he can.

III.i.113 (71,7)

  [If it were damnable, he being so wise,
  Why would he for the momentary trick
  Be perdurably fin'd?]

Shakespeare shows his knowledge of human nature in the conduct of
Claudio. When Isabella first tells him of Angelo's proposal, he
answers, with honest indignation, agreeably to his settled principles,

  _Thou shalt not do't._

But the love of life being permitted to operate, soon furnishes
him with sophistical arguments, he believes it cannot be very
dangerous to the soul, since Angelo, who is so wise, will venture
it.

III.i.121 (71,8) [delighted spirit] This reading may perhaps stand,
but many attempts have been made to correct it. The most plausible
is that which substitutes,

 --_the_ benighted _spirit_,

alluding to the darkness always supposed in the place of future
punishment.

Perhaps we may read,

 --_the_ delinquent _spirit_,

a word easily changed to _delighted_ by a bad copier, or unskilful
reader. _Delinquent_ is proposed by Thirlby in his manuscript.(1773)

III.i.127 (72,9) [lawless and incertain thoughts] Conjecture sent
out to wander without any certain direction, and ranging through
all possibilities of pain.

III.i.139 (73,2) [Is't not a kind of incest, to take life From thine
own sister's shame?] In Isabella's declamation there is something
harsh, and something forced and far-fetched. But her indignation
cannot be thought violent, when we consider her not only as a virgin,
but as a nun.

III.i.149 (74,4) [but a trade] A custom; a practice, an established
habit. So we say of a man much addicted to any thing, _he makes_
a trade _of it_.

III.i.176 (75,6) [Hold you there] Continue in that resolution.

III.i.255 (77,l) [only refer yourself to this advantage] This is
scarcely to be reconciled to any established mode of speech. We
may read, _only_ reserve yourself to, or _only_ reserve to _yourself
this advantage_.

III.i.266 (77,2) [the corrupt deputy scaled] _To scale the deputy_ may
_be, to reach him, notwithstanding the elevation of his place_; or
it may be, _to strip him and discover his nakedness, though armed
and concealed by the investments of authority_.

III.ii.6 (78,4) [since, of two usuries] Sir Thomas Hammer corrected
this with less pomp [than Warburton], then _since of two_ usurers
_the merriest was put down, and the worser allowed, by order of
law, a furr'd gown_, &c. His punctuation is right, but the alteration,
small as it is, appears more than was wanted. Usury may
be need by an easy licence for the _professors of usury_.

III.ii.14 (79,5) [father] This word should be expunged.

III.ii.40 (80,7) [That we were all, as some would seem to be,
Free from all faults, as faults from seeming free!]

Sir T. Hammer reads,

  _Free from all faults, as from faults seeming free_.

In the interpretation of Dr. Warburton, the sense is trifling,
and the expression harsh. To wish _that men were as free from
faults, as faults are free from comeliness_ [instead of _void of
comeliness_] is a very poor conceit.  I once thought it should be
read,

  _O that all were, as all would seem to be.
  Free from all faults_, or _from_ false seeming _free_.

So in this play,

  _O place, 0 power--how dost thou
  Wrench awe from fools, and tie the wiser souls
  To thy_ false seeming.

But now I believe that a less alteration will serve the turn.

  _Free from all faults_, or _faults from seeming free;

that men were really good, or that their faults were known_, that
men were free from faults, _or_ faults from _hypocrisy_.  So Isabella
calls Angelo's hypocrisy, _seeming, seeming_.

III.ii.42 (81,8) [His neck will come to your waist] That is, his
neck will be tied, like your waist, with a rope. The friars of
the Franciscan order, perhaps of all others, wear a hempen cord
for a girdle. Thus Buchanan,

  _Fac gemant suis,
  Variata terga funibus_.

III.ii.51 (81,1) [what say'st thou to this tune, matter and method?
Is't not drown'd i' the last rain?] [W: It's not down i' the
last reign] Dr. Warburton's emendation is ingenious, but I know
not whether the sense may not be restored with less change. Let
us consider it. Lucio, a prating fop, meets his old friend
going to prison, and pours out upon him his impertinent interrogatories,
to which, when the poor fellow makes no answer, he
adds, _What reply? ha? what say'st thou to this? tune, matter,
and method,--is't not? drown'd i' th' last rain? ha? what say'st
thou, trot_? &c.  It is a common phrase used in low raillery of a
man crest-fallen and dejected, that _he looks like a drown'd
puppy_, Lucio, therefore, asks him, whether he was _drowned in
the last rain_, and therefore cannot speak.

III.ii.52 (82,2) [what say'st thou, trot?] _Trot_, or as it is now
often pronounced, honest _trout_, is a familiar address to a man
among the provincial vulgar. (1773)

III.ii.54 (82,3) [Which is the way?] _What is the_ mode _now_?

III.ii.59 (82,4) [in the tub] The method of cure for veneral complaints
is grosly celled the _powdering tub_.

III.ii.89 (83,6) [Go--to kennel, Pompey--go] It should be remembered,
that Pompey is the common name of a dog, to which allusion
is made in the mention of a _kennel_. (1773)

III.ii.135 (85,9) [clack-dish] The beggars, two or three centuries
ago, used to proclaim their wont by a wooden dish with a moveable
cover, which they clacked to shew that their vessel was empty.
This appears in a passage quoted on another occasion by Dr. Gray,
(see 1765, I,331,9 and the note in the 1765 Appendix)

III.ii.144 (86,1) [The greater file of the subject] The larger list,
the greater number.

III.ii.193 (87,5) [He's now past it] Sir Thomas Hammer, _He is not
past it yet_. This emendation was received in the former edition,
but seems not necessary. It were to be wished, that we all explained
more, and amended less. (see 1765, I,333,5)

III.ii.277 (90,9)

    [Pattern in himself to know,
    Grace to stand, and virtue go]

These lines I cannot understand, but believe that they should be
read thus:

    Patterning _himself to know_,
    In _grace to stand_, in _virtue go_;

To _pattern_ is _to work after a pattern_, and, perhaps, in
Shakespeare's licentious diction, simply to work.  The sense is, _he
that bears the sword of heaven should be holy as well as severe;
one that after good examples labours to know himself, to live
with innocence, and to act with virtue_.

III.ii.294 (91,5)

    [So disguise shall, by the disguis'd
    Pay with falshood false exacting]

So _disguise_ shall by means of a person _disguised_, return an
_injurious demand_ with a _counterfeit person_.

IY.i.13 (93,4) [My mirth it much displeas'd, but pleas'd my woe]
Though the musick soothed my sorrows, it had no tendency to produce
light merriment.

IV.i.21 (93,5) [constantly] Certainly; without fluctuation of mind.

IV.i.28 (93,6) [circummur'd with brick] _Circummured_, walled round.
_He caused the doors to be_ mured _and cased up_.

                                Painter's Palace of Pleasure.

IV.i.40 (94,7) [In action all of precept] I rather think we should
read,

        _In precept all of action_,--

that is, _in direction given not by words, but by mute signs_.

IV.i.44 (94,8) [I have possess'd him] I have made him clearly and
strongly comprehend.

IV.i.60 (95,9) [O place and greatness] [It plainly appears, that
_this_ fine speech belongs to _that_ which concludes the preceding
scene, between the Duke and Lucio.... But that some time might be
given to the two women to confer together, the players, I suppose,
took part of the speech, beginning at _No might nor greatness_,
&c. and put it here, without troubling themselves about
its pertinency. Warburton.] I cannot agree that these lines are
placed here by the players. The sentiments are common, and such
as a prince, given to reflection, must have often present.
There was a necessity to fill up the time in which the ladies
converse apart, and they must have quick tongues and ready
apprehensions, if they understood each other while this speech was
uttered.

IV.i.60 (95,1) [false eyes] That is, Eyes insidious and traiterous.

IV.i.62 (95,2) [contrarious quests] Different reports, _running
counter_ to each other.

IV.i.76 (96,4) [for yet our tithe's to sow] [W: tilth] The reader
is here attacked with a pretty sophism. We should read _tilth_,
i.e. our _tillage is to make_. But in the text it is _to sow_; and
who has ever said that his _tillage_ was to _sow_? I believe _tythe_
is right, and that the expression is proverbial, in which _tithe_
is taken, by an easy metonymy, for _harvest_.

IV.ii.69 (100,7) [ As fast lock'd up in sleep, as guiltless labour
  When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones ]
Stiffly. These two lines afford a very pleasing image.

IV.ii.83 (101,1) [Even with the stroke] _Stroke_ is here put for the
_stroke_ of a pen or a line.

IV.ii.86 (101,2) [To qualify] To temper, to moderate, as we say
wine is _qualified_ with water.

IV.ii.86 (101,3) [Were he meal'd] Were he sprinkled; were he defiled,
A figure of the same kind our authour uses in _Macbeth_,
   _The_ blood-bolter'd _Banquo._

IV.ii.91 (101,4) [that spirit's possess'd with haste, That wounds
the unresisting postern with these strokes] The line is irregular,
and the _unresisting postern_ so strange an expression, that
want of measure, and want of sense, might justly raise suspicion
of an errour, yet none of the later editors seem to have supposed
the place faulty, except sir Tho. Hammer, who reads,

  _the_ unresting _postern_.

The three folio's have it,

  _unsisting postern_,

out of which Mr. Rowe made _unresisting_, and the rest followed
him. Sir Thomas Hammer seems to have supposed _unresisting_ the
word in the copies, from which he plausibly enough extracted
_unresting_, but be grounded his emendation on the very syllable that
wants authority. What can be made of _unsisting_ I know not; the
best that occurs to me is _unfeeling_.

IV.ii.103 (103,6) [_Duke_. This is his lordship's man.
                  _Prov_. And here comes Claudio's pardon]

[Tyrwhitt suggested that the names of the speakers were misplaced]
When, immediately after the Duke had hinted his expectation of a
pardon, the Provost sees the Messenger, he supposes the Duke to
to have _known something_, and changes his mind. Either reading
may serve equally well. (1773)

IV.ii.153 (104,7) [desperately mortal] This expression is obscure.
Sir Thomas Hammer reads, _mortally desperate_. _Mortally_ is in low
conversation used in this sense, but I know not whether it was
ever written. I am inclined to believe, that _desperately mortal_
means _desperately mischievous_.  Or _desperately mortal_ may mean a
man likely to die in a _desperate_ state, without reflection or
repentance. (see 1765, I,348,7)

IV.ii.187 (106,8) [and tie the beard] A beard tied would give a very
new air to that face, which had never been seen but with the
beard loose, long, and squalid. (1773)

IV.iii.4 (107,2) [First, here's young master Rash] This enumeration
of the inhabitants of the prison affords a very striking view of
the practices predominant in Shakespeare's age. Besides those
whose follies are common to all times, we have four fighting men
and a traveller.  It is not unlikely that the originals of the
pictures were then known.

IV.iii.17 (108,4) [master Forthlight] Should not _Forthlight_ be
_Forthright_, alluding to the line in which the thrust is made? (1773)

IV.iii.21 (108,6) [in for the Lord's sake] [i.e. to beg for the rest
of their lives. Warburton.] I rather think this expression intended
to ridicule the puritans, whose turbulence and indecency often
brought them to prison, and who considered themselves as suffering
for religion.

It is not unlikely that men imprisoned for other crimes, might
represent themselves to casual enquirers, as suffering for
puritanism, and that this might be the common cant of the prisons.
In Donne's time, every prisoner was brought to jail by suretiship.

IV.iii.68 (110,7) [After him, fellows] Here was a line given to the
Duke, which belongs to the Provost. The Provost, while the Duke
is lamenting the obduracy of the prisoner, cries out,

  _After him, fellows_, &c.

and, when they are gone out, turns again to the Duke.

IV.iii.72 (110,8) [to transport him] To remove him from one world
to another. The French _trepas_ affords a kindred sense.

IV.iii.115 (112,1)
       [I will keep her ignorant of her good,
  To make her heavenly comforts of despair,
  When least it is expected.]

A better reason might have been given. It was necessary to keep
Isabella in ignorance, that she might with more keenness accuse
the deputy.

IV.iii.139 (113,2) [your bosom] Your wish; your heart's desire.

IV.iii.149 (113,3) [I am combined by a sacred vow] I once thought
this should be _confined_, but Shakespeare uses _combine_ for to
_bind by a pact or agreement_, so he calls Angelo the _combinate_
husband of Mariana.

IV.iii.163 (113,4) [if the old fantastical duke] Sir Thomas Hammer
reads, _the_ odd _fantastical duke_, but _old_ is a common word of
aggravation in ludicrous language, as, _there was_ old _revelling_.

IV.iii.170 (114,5) [woodman] That is, _huntsman_, here taken for a
_hunter of girls_.

IV.iv.19 (115,6) [sort and suit] Figure and rank.

IV.iv.27 (115,7) [Yet reason dares her No] Mr. Theobald reads,

 --_Yet reason dares her_ note.

Sir Thomas Hammer,

 --_Yet reason dares her: No._

Mr. Upton,

 --_Yet reason dares her--No_,

which he explains thus: _Yet_, says Angelo, _reason will give her
courage_--_No_, that is, _it will not_. I am afraid _dare_ has no such
signification.  I have nothing to offer worth insertion.

IV.iv.28 (116,8)

     [For my authority bears a credent bulk;
     That no particular scandal once can touch]

_Credent_ is _creditable, inforcing credit, not questionable_. The
old English writers often confound the active and passive adjectives.
So Shakespeare, and Milton after him, use _inexpressive_
from inexpressible.

_Particular_ is _private_, a French sense. No scandal from any
_private_ mouth can reach a man in my authority.

IV.iv.36 (116,9) [Nothing goes right; we would, and we would not]
Here undoubtedly the act should end, and was ended by the poet;
for here is properly a cessation of action, and a night intervenes,
and the place is changed, between the passages of this
scene, and those of the next. The next act beginning with the
following scene, proceeds without any interruption of time or
change of place.

IV.v.1 (117,1) [_Duke_. These letters at fit time deliver me]
Peter never delivers the letters, but tells his story without any
credentials. The poet forgot the plot which he had formed.

IV.vi.4 (118,2) [He says, to vail full purpose] [T: t'availful]
[Warburton had explained "full" as "beneficial."] _To vail full_
purpose, may, with very little force on the words, mean, _to hide_
_the whole extent of our design_, and therefore the reading may
stand; yet I cannot but think Mr. Theobald's alteration either
lucky or ingenious.  To interpret words with such laxity, as to
make _full_ the sane with _beneficial_, is to put an end, at once,
to all necessity of emendation, for any word may then stand in
the place of another.

IV.vi.9 (118,3) [_Enter Peter_] This play has two Friars, either of
whom might singly have served.  I should therefore imagine, that
Friar Thomas, in the first act, might be changed, without any
harm, to Friar Peter; for why should the Duke unnecessarily
trust two in an affair which required only one. The none of
Friar Thomas is never mentioned in the dialogue, and therefore
seems arbitrarily placed at the head of the scene.

IV.vi.14 (119,4) [Have bent the gates] Have taken possession of the
gates,  (rev. 1778, II,134,4)

V.i.20 (120,5) [vail your regard] That is, withdraw your thoughts
from higher things, let your notice descend upon a wronged
woman. To _vail_, is to lower.

V.i.45 (121,6) [truth is truth To the end of reckoning] That is,
truth has no gradations; nothing which admits of encrease can be
so much what it is, as _truth_ is _truth_. There may be a _strange_
thing, and a thing _more strange_, but if a proposition be _true_,
there can be none _more true_.

V.i.54 (121,7) [as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute] _As shy_; as
reserved, as abstracted: _as just_; as nice, as exact: _as absolute_;
as complete in all the round of duty.

V.i.56 (121,8) [In all his dressings] In all his semblance of virtue,
in all his habiliments of office.

V.i.64 (122,1) [do not banish reason For inequality] Let not the
high quality of my adversary prejudice you against me.

V.i.104 (124,4) [Oh, that it were as like, as it is true!] [Warburton had
explained "like" as "seemly."] _Like_ I have never found
for _seemly_.

V.i.107 (124,8) [In hateful practice] _Practice_ was used by the old
writers for any unlawful or insidious stratagem. So again,

  _This must needs be_ practice:

and again,

  _Let me have way to find this_ practice _out_.

V.i.145 (125,6) [nor a temporary medler] It is hard to know what
is meant by a _temporary_ medler.  In its usual sense, as opposed
to _perpetual_, it cannot be used here.  It may stand for _temporal_:
the sense will then be, _I know him for a holy man, one that meddles not
with_ secular _affairs_.  It may mean _temporising_: I know
him to be a holy man, one who would not_ temporise, _or take the
opportunity of your absence to defame you_. Or we may read,

  _Not scurvy, nor a_ tamperer and _medler_:

not one who would bare _tampered_ with this woman to make her a
false evidence against your deputy.

V.i.160 (126,8) [So vulgarly and personally accus'd] Meaning either
so _grosly_, with such _indecency_ of invective, or by so _mean_ and
inadequate witnesses.

V.i.205 (128,2) [This is a strange abuse] _Abuse_ stands in this place
for _deception_, or _puzzle_. So in _Macbeth_,

  _This strange and self_ abuse,

means, _this strange_ deception _of himself_.

V.i.219 (129,3) [her promised proportions Came short of composition]
Her fortune, which was promised _proportionate_ to mine, fell short
of the _composition_, that is, contract or bargain.

V.i.236 (129,4) [These poor informal women] I once believed _informal_
had no other or deeper signification than _informing, accusing_.
The _scope_ of justice, is the full extent; but think, upon farther
enquiry, that _informal_ signifies _incompetent, not qualified to
give testimony_.  Of this use there are precedents to be found,
though I cannot now recover them.

V.i.245 (130,5) [That's seal'd in approbation?] Then any thing subject
to counterfeits is tried by the proper officers and approved,
a stamp or _seal_ is put upon it, as among us on plate, weights,
and measures.  So the Duke says, that Angela's faith has been
tried, _approved_, and _seal'd_ in testimony of that _approbation_, and,
like other things so _sealed_, is no more to be called in question.

V.i.255 (131,6) [to hear this matter forth] To hear it to the end;
to search it to the bottom.

V.i.303 (132,4) [to retort your manifest appeal] To _refer back_ to
Angelo and the cause in which you _appealed_ from Angelo to the
Duke.

V.i.317 (133,5) [his subject I am not, Nor here provincial] Nor here
_accountable_. The meaning seems to be, I am not one of his natural
subjects, nor of any dependent province.

V.i.323 (133,6) [the forfeits in a barber's shop] [Warburton had explained
that a list of forfeitures were posted in barber shops to
warn patrons to keep their hands off the barber's surgical instruments.]
This explanation may serve till a better is discovered.
But whoever has seen the instruments of a chirurgeon, knows that
they may be very easily kept out of improper hands in a very
small box, or in his pocket.

V.i.336 (134,7) [And was the duke a fleshmonger, a fool, and a
coward, as you then reported him to be?] So again afterwards,

  _You, sirrah, that know me for a fool, a_ coward,
  _One of all luxury_--

But Lucio had not, in the former conversation, mentioned _cowardice_
among the faults of the duke.--Such failures of memory are
incident to writers more diligent than this poet.

V.i.359 (135,8) [show your sheep-biting face, and be hang'd an
hour' Will't not off?] This is intended to be the common language
of vulgar indignation. Our phrase on such occasions is
simply; _show your sheep-biting face, and be hanged_. The words
_an hour_ have no particular use here, nor are authorised by custom.
I suppose it was written thus, _show your sheep-biting face,
and be hanged--an' how? wilt not off_? In the midland counties,
upon any unexpected obstruction or resistance, it is common to
exclaim _an' how_?

V.i.388 (136,9) [Advertising, and holy] Attentive and faithful.

V.i.393 (136,l) [be you as free to us] Be as _generous_ to us, pardon
us as we have pardoned you.

V.i.401 (136,2) [That brain'd my purpose] We now use in conversation
a like phrase. _This it was that knocked my design on the head_.
Dr. Warburton reads,

 --baned _my purpose_.

V.i.413 (137,3) [even from his proper tongue] Even from Angelo's
_own tongue_. So above.

  _In the witness of his_ proper _ear
  To call him villain._

V.i.438 (138,5) [Against all sense you do importune her] The meaning
required is, against all reason and natural affection; Shakespeare,
therefore, judiciously uses a single word that implies both;
_sense_ signifying both reason and affection.

V.i.452 (139,6) ['Till he did look on me] The duke has justly observed
that Isabel is _importuned against all sense_ to solicit for
Angelo, yet here _against all sense_ she solicits for him. Her
argument is extraordinary.

  _A due sincerity govern'd his deeds,
  'Till he did look on me; since it is so.
  Let him not die._

That Angelo had committed all the crimes charged against him,
as far as he could commit them, is evident. The only _intent_
which _his_ act did not overtake, was the defilement of Isabel. Of
this Angelo was only intentionally guilty.

Angela's crimes were such, as must sufficiently justify punishment,
whether its end be to secure the innocent from wrong, or
to deter guilt by example; and I believe every reader feels some
indignation when he finds him spared.  From what extenuation of
his crime, can Isabel, who yet supposes her brother dead, form
any plea in his favour. _Since he was good 'till he looked on me,
let him not die_.  I am afraid our varlet poet intended to inculcate,
that women think ill of nothing that raises the credit of
their beauty, and are ready, however virtuous, to pardon any act
which they think incited by their own charms.

V.i.488 (140,7) [But, for those earthly faults, I quit them all]
Thy faults, so far as they are punishable on earth, so far as
they are cognisable by temporal power, I forgive.

V.i.499 (141,8) [By this, lord Angelo perceives he's safe] It is
somewhat strange, that Isabel is not made to express either
gratitude, wonder or joy at the sight of her brother.

V.i.501 (141,9) [your evil quits you well] _Quits you_, recompenses,
requites you.

V.i.502 (141,1) [Look, that you love your wife; her worth, worth
yours] Sir T. Hammer reads,

  _Her worth_ works _yours_.

This reading is adopted by Dr. Warburton, but for what reason?
How does her _worth work Angelo's worth_? it has only contributed
to _work_ his pardon. The words are, as they are too frequently,
an affected gingle, but the sense is plain. _Her worth, worth
yours_; that is, her value is equal to your value, the match is
not unworthy of you.

V.i.504 (141,2) [And yet here's one in place I cannot pardon] After
the pardon of two murderers, Lucio might be treated by the good
duke with less harshness; but perhaps the poet intended to show,
what is too often seen, _that men easily forgive wrongs which are
not committed against themselves_.

V.i.509 (142,3) [according to the trick] To my custom, my habitual
practice.

V.i.526 (142,4) [thy other forfeits] Thy other punishments.

V.i.534 (142,5) [Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness]
I have always thought that there is great confusion in this concluding
speech.  If my criticism would not be censured as too
licentious, I should regulate it thus,

  _Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness.
  Thanks. Provost, for thy care and secrecy;
  We shall employ thee in a worthier place.
  Forgive him, Angelo, that brought you home
  The head of Ragozine for Claudio's.
     _Ang_. _Th' offence pardons itself_.
     _Duke_, _There's more behind
  That is more gratulate. Dear Isabel,
  I have a motion_,&c,

V.i.545 (143,6) General Observation  The novel of Cynthio Giraldi,
from which Shakespeare is supposed to have borrowed this fable,
may be read in _Shakespeare illustrated_, elegantly translated,
with remarks which will assist the enquirer to discover how much
absurdity Shakespeare has admitted or avoided.
I cannot but suspect that some other had new-modelled the
novel of Cynthio, or written a story which in some particulars
resembled it, and that Cynthio was not the authour whom Shakespeare
immediately followed. The emperour in Cynthio is named
Maximine; the duke, in Shakespeare's enumeration of the persons
of the drama, is called Vincentio.  This appears a very slight
remark; but since the duke has no name in the play, nor is ever
mentioned but by his title, why should he be called Vincentio
among the _persons_, but because the name was copied from the
story, and placed superfluously at the head of the list by the
mere habit of transcription? It is therefore likely that there
was then a story of Vincentio duke of Vienna, different from
that of Maximine emperour of the Romans.

Of this play the light or comick part is very natural and
pleasing, but the grave scenes, if a few passages be excepted,
have more labour than elegance. The plot is rather intricate
than artful. The time of the action is indefinite; some time,
we know not how much, must have elapsed between the recess of
the duke and the imprisonment of Claudio; for he must have
learned the story of Mariana in his disguise, or he delegated
his power to a man already known to be corrupted.  The unities
of action and place are sufficiently preserved.




THE COMEDY OF ERRORS

I.ii.96 (155,3) [o'er-raught] That is, _over-reached_.

I.ii.98 (156,5)

    [As, nimble jugglers, that deceive the eye,
Dark-working sorcerers, that change the mind,
Soul-killing witches, that deform the body]

[W: Drug-working] The learned commentator has endeavoured with
much earnestness to recommend his alteration; but, if I may
judge of other apprehensions by my own, without great success.
This interpretation of _soul-killing_ is forced and harsh. Sir T.
Hammer reads _soul-selling_, agreeable enough to the common opinion,
but without such improvement as may justify the change. Perhaps
the epithets have only been misplaced, and the lines should be
read thus,

  Soul-killing _sorcerers, that change the mind_;
  Dark-working _witches that deform the body_.

This change seems to remove all difficulties.

By _soul-killing_ I understand destroying the rational faculties
by such means as make men fancy themselves beasts.

I.ii.102 (157,6) [liberties of sin] Sir T. Hammer reads, _libertines_,
which, as the author has been enumerating not acts but persons,
seems right.

II.i.30 (158,8) [How if your husband start some other where?] I
cannot but think, that our authour wrote,

  --_start some other_ hare?

So in _Much ado about Nothing_, Cupid is said to be _a good hare-finder_.
II.i.32 (159,9) [tho' she pause] To _pause_ is to rest, to be in
quiet.

II.i.41 (159,1) [fool-begg'd] She seems to mean, by _fool-begg'd
patience_, that patience which is so near to _idiotical simplicity_,
that your next relation would take advantage from it to represent
you as a _fool_, and _beg_ the guardianship of your fortune.

II.i.82 (161,3) [Am I so round with you, as you with me] He plays
upon the word _round_, which signified _spherical_ applied to
himself, and _unrestrained_, or _free in speech_ or _action_, spoken
of his mistress. So the king, in _Hamlet_, bids the queen be _round_
with her son.

II.i.100 (161,5) [too unruly deer] The ambiguity of _deer_ and _dear_
is borrowed, poor as it is, by Waller, in his poem on the _Ladies
Girdle_.

  "This was my heav'n's extremest sphere,
  "This pale that held my lovely deer."

II.i.101 (161,6) [poor I am but his stale] The word _stale_, in our
authour, used as a substantive, means, not something offered to
_allure_ or _attract_, but something _vitiated_ with _use_, something of
which the best part has been enjoyed and consumed.

II.ii.86 (166,4) [Not a man of those, but he hath the wit to lose his
hair] That is, _Those who have more hair than wit_, are easily
entrapped by loose women, and suffer the consequences of lewdness,
one of which, in the first appearance of the disease in Europe,
was the loss of hair.

II.ii.173 (169,6) [Be it my wrong, you are from me exempt] Exempt,
separated, parted. The sense is, _If I am doomed to suffer the
wrong of separation, yet injure not with contempt me who am already
injured_.

II.ii.210 (171,1) [And shrive you] That is, I will _call you to
confession_, and make you tell your tricks.

III.i.4 (172,2) [carkanet] seems to have been a necklace or rather
chain, perhaps hanging down double from the neck. So Lovelace
in his poem,

  _The empress spreads her_ carcanets.

III.i.15 (173,3) [Marry, so it doth appear By the wrongs I suffer,
and the blows I bear] [T: don't appear] I do not think this emendation
necessary. He first says, that his _wrongs_ and _blows_ prove
him an _ass_; but immediately, with a correction of his former sentiment,
such as may be hourly observed in conversation, he observes
that, if he had been an ass, he should, when he was _kicked_, have
_kicked_ again.

III.i.101 (177,7) [supposed by the common rout] For _suppose_ I once
thought it might be more commodious to substitute _supported_; but
there is no need of change: _supposed_ is _founded on supposition_,
made by conjecture.

III.i.105 (178,8) [For slander lives upon succession] The line apparently
wants two syllables: what they were, cannot now be known.
The line may be filled up according to the reader's fancy, as thus:

_For_ lasting _slander lives upon succession_.

III.ii.27 (180,3) ['Tis holy sport to be a little vain] is _light of
tongue, not veracious_.

III.ii.64 (181,2) [My sole earth's heaven, and my heaven's claim]
When be calls the girl his _only heaven on the earth_, he utters
the common cant of lovers. When he calls her _his heaven's claim_,
I cannot understand him. Perhaps he means that which he asks of
heaven.

III.ii.125 (184,5)

[_S. Ant._  Where France?
 _S. Dro._  In her forehead; arm'd and reverted,
 making war against her hair]

[T, from the first Folio: heir] With this correction and explication
Dr. Warburton concurs, and sir T. Hammer thinks an equivocation
intended, though he retains _hair_ in the text. Yet surely
they have all lost the sense by looking beyond it.  Our authour,
in my opinion, only sports with an allusion, in which he takes
too much delight, and means that his mistress had the French
disease. The ideas are rather too offensive to be dilated. By
a forehead _armed_, he means covered with incrusted eruptions: by
reverted, he means having the hair turning backwards. An equivocal
word must have senses applicable to both the subjects to
which it is applied. Both _forehead_ and _France_ might in some sort
make war against their _hair_, but how did the _forehead_ make war
against its _heir_? The sense which I have given immediately occurred
to me, and will, I believe, arise to every reader who is
contented with the meaning that lies before him, without sending
out conjecture in search of refinements.

IV.ii.19 (192,9) [sere] that is, _dry_, withered.

IV.ii.22 (192,1) [Stigmatical in making] This is, _marked_ or _stigmatized_
by nature with deformity, as a token of his vicious disposition.

IV.ii.35 (193,3) [A fiend, a fairy, pitiless and rough] [T: A fiend,
a fury] There were fairies like _hobgoblins_, pitiless and rough,
and described as malevolent and mischievous, (see 1765, III,143,3)

IV.ii.39 (193,5) [A hound that runs counter, and yet draws dry-foot
well] To _run counter_ is to _run backward_, by mistaking the course
of the animal pursued; to _draw dry-foot_ is, I believe, to pursue
by the _track_ or _prick of the foot_; to _run counter_ and _draw dry-foot
well are_, therefore, inconsistent. The jest consists in
the ambiguity of the word _counter_, which means the _wrong way in_*
_the chase._ and a _prison_ in London. The officer that arrested him was
a serjeant of the counter. For the congruity of this jest with the scene of
action, let our authour answer.

IV.iii.13 (196,9) [what, have you got the picture of old Adam new
apparel'd] [T: got rid of the picture] The explanation is very
good, but the text does not require to be amended.

IV.iii.27 (`is rest to do more exploits with his mace than a morris
pike] [W: a Maurice-pike] This conjecture is very ingenious, yet the
commentator talks unnecessarily of the _rest of a musket._ by which
he makes the hero of the speech set up the _rest_ of a _musket,_ to
do exploits with a _pike._ The rest of a _pike_ was a common term,
and signified, I believe, the manner in which it was fixed to
receive the rush of the enemy.  A _morris-pike_ was a pike used in a
morris or a military dance, and with which great _exploits_ were
_done,_ that is, great feats of dexterity were shewn.  There is no
need of change.

IV.iv.78 (202,3) [kitchen-vestal] Her charge being like that of the
vestal virgins, to keep the fire burning.

V.1.137 (210,6) [important letters]_Important_ seems to be for
_importunate._ (1773)

V.i.298 (216,2) [time's deformed hand Have written strange defeatures
in my face] _Defeature_ is the privative of _feature._  The meaning is,
time hath cancelled my features.

V.i.406 (220,7) [After so long grief such nativity!] We should surely
read.
         _After so long grief, such_ festivity.

_Nativity_ lying so near, and the termination being the same of both words,
the mistake was easy.





MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING

I.i.27 (226,3) [no faces truer] That is, none _honester,_ none _more
sincere._

I.i.40 (227,7) [challenged Cupid at the flight] The disuse of the
bow makes this passage obscure. Benedick is represented as
challenging Cupid at archery. To challenge _at the flight is,_
I believe, to wager who shall shoot the arrow furthest without any
particular mark. To _challenge at the bird-bolt,_ seems to mean the
same as to challenge at children's archery, with snail arrows such
as are discharged at birds.  In Twelfth Night Lady Olivia opposes
a _bird-bolt_ to a _cannon-bullet,_ the lightest to the heaviest of
missive weapons.

I.i.66 (228,9) [four of his five wits] In our author's time _wit_ was the
general term for intellectual powers. So Davies on the Soul.

  Wit, _seeking truth from cause to cause ascends._
     _And never rests till it the first attain;_
  Will, _seeking good, finds many middle ends,
     But never stays till it the last do gain._

And in another part,

     _But if a phrenzy do possess the brain,
  It so disturbs and blots the form of things,
     As fantasy proves altogether vain,
  And to the_ wit, _no true relation brings.
     Then doth the_ wit, _admitting all for true,
  Build fond conclusions on those idle grounds;_--

The _wits_ seem to have reckoned five, by analogy to the five
senses, or the five inlets of ideas.

I.i.79 (229,4) [the gentleman is not in your books] This is a phrase
used, I believe, by more than understand it. _To be in one's
books is to be in one's_ codicils _or_ will, _to be among friends set
down for legacies_.

I.i.82 (230,5) [young squarer] A _squarer_ I take to be a cholerick,
quarrelsome fellow, for in this sense Shakespeare uses the word
to _square_. So in Midsummer Night's Dream it is said of Oberon
and Titalia, that _they never meet but they_ square. So the sense
may be, _Is there no_ hot-blooded _youth that will keep him company
through all his mad pranks_?

I.i.103 (231,6) [You embrace your charge] That is your _burthen_, your
_incumbrunce_.

I.i.185 (233,7) [to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder] I know not
whether I conceive the jest here intended. Claudio hints his
love of Hero. Benedick asks whether he is serious, or whether
he only means to jest, and tell them that _Cupid is a good
hare-finder, and Vulcan a rare carpenter_. A man praising a pretty
lady in jest, may shew the quick sight of Cupid, but what has it
to do with the _carpentry_ of Vulcan? Perhaps the thought lies no
deeper than this, _Do you mean to tell us as new what we all know
already?_

I.i.200 (234,8) [wear his cap with suspicion?] That is, subject his
head to the disquiet of jealousy.

I.i.217 (235,1) [_Claud_. If this were so, so were it uttered] This
and the three next speeches I do not well understand; there
seems something omitted relating to Hero's consent, or to Claudio's
marriage, else I know not what Claudio can wish _not to be
otherwise_. The copies all read alike. Perhaps it may be better
thus,

  Claud. _If this were so, so were it_.
  Bene. _Uttered like the old tale_, &c.

Claudio gives a sullen answer, _if it is so, so it is_. Still
there seems something omitted which Claudio and Pedro concur in
wishing.

I.i.243 (236,3) [but that I will have a recheate winded in my
forehead] That is, _I will wear a horn on my forehead which the
huntsman may blow_.  A _recheate_ is the sound by which dogs are
called back. Shakespeare had no mercy upon the poor cuckold, his
_horn_ is an inexhaustible subject of merriment.

1.1.258 (236,4) [notable argument] An eminent subject for satire.

1.1.259 (237,5) [Adam] Adam Bell was a companion of Robin Hood, as
may be seen in Robin Hood's Garland; in which, if I do not mistake,
are these lines,

  _For he brought Adam Bell, Clim of the Clough,
     And William of Cloudeslea,
  To shoot with this forester for forty marks,
     And the forester beat them all three._

(see 1765, III,182,2)

I.i.290 (238,4) [ere you flout old ends any further, examine your
conscience] _Before you endeavour to distinguish yourself any more
by antiquated allusions, examine whether you can fairly claim
them for your own_. This, I think is the meaning; or it may be
understood in another sense, _examine, if your sarcasms do not
touch yourself._

I.iii.14 (241,6) [I cannot hide what I am] This is one of our
authour's natural touches. An envious and unsocial mind, too proud
to give pleasure, and too sullen to receive it, always endeavours
to hide its malignity from the world and from itself, under the
plainness of simple honesty, or the dignity of haughty independence.

I.iii.19 (241,7) [claw no man in his humour] To _claw_ is to flatter.
So _the pope's claw-backs_, in bishop Jewel, are the pope's _flatterers_.
The sense is the same in the proverb, _Mulus mulum scabit_.

I.iii.28 (242,8) [I had rather be a canker in a hedge, than a rose
in his grace] A _canker_ is the _canker_ rose, _dog-rose, cynosbatus,_
or _hip_. The sense is, I would rather live in obscurity the wild
life of nature, than owe dignity or estimation to my brother. He
still continues his wish of gloomy independence. But what is the
meaning of the expression, _a rose in his grace_? if he was a _rose_
of himself, his brother's _grace_ or _favour_ could not degrade him.
I once read thus, _I had rather be a canker in a hedge, than a
rose in his_ garden; that is, I had rather be what nature makes
me, however mean, than owe any exaltation or improvement to my
brother's kindness or cultivation. But a less change will be
sufficient: I think it should be read, _I had rather be a canker in a
hedge, than a rose by his grace_.

II.i.3 (244,1) [I never can see him, but I am heart-burn'd an hour
after] The pain commonly called the _heart-burn_, proceeds from an
_acid_ humour in the stomach, and is therefore properly enough
imputed to _tart_ looks.

II.i.53 (245,3) [Well then, go you into hell] Of the two next speeches
Mr. Warburton says, _All this impious nonsense thrown to the bottom
is the players, and foisted in without rhyme or reason_. He
therefore puts them in the margin. They do not deserve indeed so
honourable a place, yet I am afraid they are too much in the manner
of our authour, who is sometimes trying to purchase merriment
at too dear a rate. (see 1765, III,190,9)

II.i.73 (246,4) [if the prince be too important] _Important_ here, and
in many other places, is _importunate_.

II.i.99 (247,6) [My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is
Jove] [T: house is love] This amendation, thus impressed with all
the power of his eloquence and reason, Theobald found in the
quarto edition of 1600, which he professes to have seen; and in
the first folio, the _l_ and the _I_ are so much alike, that the
printers, perhaps, used the same type for either letter. (1773)

II.i.143 (249,2) [his gift is in devising impossible slanders] [W:
impassible] _Impossible_ slanders are, I suppose, such slanders as,
from their absurdity and impossibility, bring their own confutation
with them.

II.i.195 (251,4) [usurer's chain] I know not whether the _chain_ was,
in our authour's time, the common ornament of wealthy citizens,
or whether he satirically uses _usurer_ and _alderman_ as synonymous
terms.

II.i.214 (252,5) [It is the base, the bitter disposition of Beatrice,
that puts the world into her person] That is, _It is the disposition
of Beatrice, who takes upon her to personate the world, and
therefore represents the world as saying what she only says herself_.

_Base, tho bitter_.  I do not understand how _base_ and _bitter_ are
inconsistent, or why what is _bitter_ should not be _base_. I believe,
we may safely read, _It is the base_, the _bitter_ disposition.

II.i.253 (253,8) [such impossible conveyance] [W: impassible] I know
not what to propose.  _Impossible_ seems to have no meaning here,
and for _impassible_ I have not found any authority. Spenser uses
the word _importable_ in a sense very congruous to this passage,
for _insupportable_, or _not to be sustained_.

     _Both him charge on either side,
  With hideous strokes and_ importable _power,
     Which forced him his ground to traverse wide_.

It may be easily imagined, that the transcribers would change
a word so unusual, into that word most like it, which they could
readily find. It must be however confessed, that _importable_
appears harsh to our ears, and I wish a happier critick may find a
better word.

Sir Tho. Hammer reads _impetuous_, which will serve the purpose
well enough, but is not likely to have been changed to _impossible_.

_Importable_ was a word not peculiar to Spenser, but used by the
last translators of the Apocrypha, and therefore such a word as
Shakespeare may be supposed to have written. (1773)
II.i.330 (256,2) [Thus goes every one to the world but I, and I am
sun-burn'd] What is it, _to go the world_? perhaps, to enter by
marriage into a settled state: but why is the unmarry'd lady
_sun-burnt_? I believe we should read, _Thus goes every one to the wood_
but I, and I am sun-burnt_. Thus does every one but I find a shelter,
and I am left exposed to wind and _sun. The nearest way to
the_ wood, is a phrase for the readiest means to any end.  It is
said of a woman, who accepts a worse match than those which she
had refused, that she has passed through the _wood_, and at last
taken a crooked stick. But conjectural criticism has always
something to abate its confidence. Shakespeare, in All's well that
Ends well, uses the phrase, _to go to the world_, for _marriage_. So
that my emendation depends only on the opposition of _wood_ to
_sun-burnt_.

II.i.380 (258,4) [to bring signior Benedick, and the lady Beatrice
into a mountain of affection, the one with another] _A mountain of
affection with one another_ is a strange expression, yet I know not
well how to change it. Perhaps it was originally written, _to
bring Benedick into a mooting of affection_; to bring them not to
any more _mootings_ of contention, but to a _mooting_ or conversation
of love. This reading is confirmed by the preposition _with; a
mountain with each other,_ or _affection with each other,_ cannot be
used, but _a mooting with each other_ is proper and regular.

II.iii.104 (265,7) [but, that she loves him, with an enraged
affection, it is past the infinite of thought] [W: the definite of]
Here are difficulties raised only to shew how easily they can be
removed. The plain sense is, _I know not what to think_ otherwise,
_but that she loves him with_ an enraged _affection: It_ (this
affection) [is past the infinite of thought. Here are no abrupt stops,
or imperfect sentences. _Infinite_ may well enough stand; it is
used by more careful writers for _indefinite_; and the speaker only
means, that _thought_, though in itself _unbounded_, cannot reach or
estimate the degree of her passion.

II.iii.146 (267,8) [O, she tore the letter into a thousand half-pence]
[i.e. into a thousand pieces of the same bigness.] This is
farther explained by a passage in As you Like it.

 --_There were none principal; they were all like one

another as_ half-pence _are_. [Theobald.] How the quotation explains
the passage, to which it is applied, I cannot discover.

II.iii.188 (268,9) [contemptible spirit] That is, a temper inclined
to scorn and contempt. It has been before remarked, that our authour
uses his verbal adjectives with great licence. There is
therefore no need of changing the word with sir T. Hammer to
_contemptuous_.

III.i.52 (273,3) [Misprising] Despising, contemning.

III.i.96 (275,8) [argument] This word seems here to signify _discourse_,
or, the _powers_ of reasoning.
III.i.104 (275,7) [She's lim'd] She is ensnared and entangled as a
sparrow with _birdlime_.

III.i.107 (275,9) [Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand] This
image is taken from falconry. She had been charged with being
as wild as _haggards of the rock_; she therefore says, that _wild_
as her _heart_ is, she will tame it _to the hand_.

III.ii.31 (277,2) [There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless
it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises] Here is a play
upon the word _fancy_, which Shakespeare uses for _love_ as well as
for _humour, caprice_, or _affectation_.

III.ii.71 (278,3) [She shall be buried with her face upwards] [T:
heels upwards] This emendation, which appears to me very specious,
is rejected by Dr. Warburton.  The meaning seems to be,
that she who acted upon principles contrary to others, should
be buried with the same contrariety.

III.iii.43 (282,5) [only have a care that your bills be not stolen]
A _bill_ is still carried by the watchmen at Litchfield. It was
the old weapon of the English infantry, which, says Temple, _gave
the most ghastly and deplorable wounds_.  It may be called _securis
falcata_.

III.iv.44 (289,3) [Light o' love] A tune so called, which has been
already mentioned by our authour.

III.iv.49 (290,4) [you'll look he shall lack no burns] A quibble
between _barns_, repositories of corn, and _bairns_, the old word
for children.

III.iv.56 (290,5) [For the letter that begins them all, H] This is
a poor jest, somewhat obscured, and not worth the trouble of
elucidation.

Margaret asks Beatrice for what she cries, _hey ho_; Beatrice
answers, for an _H_, that is, for an _ache_ or _pain_.

III.iv.57 (290,6) [turn'd Turk] [i.e. taken captive by love, and
turned a renegade to his religion. Warburton.] This interpretation
is somewhat far-fetched, yet, perhaps, it is right.

III.iv.78 (291,7) [some morel] That is, some secret meaning, like
the _moral_ of a fable.

III.iv.89 (291,8) [he eats his meat without grudging] I do not see
how this is a proof of Benedick's change of mind. It would afford
more proof of amourosness to say, _he eats_ not _his meat
without grudging_; but it is impossible to fix the meaning of
proverbial expressions: perhaps, _to eat meat without grudging_,
was the same as, _to do as others do_, and the meaning is, _he is
content to live by eating like other mortals and will be content,
notwithstanding his boasts, like other mortals, to have a wife_.

III.v.15 (293,9) [I am as honest as any man living, that is an old
man, and no honester than I] [There is much humour, and extreme
good sense under the covering of this blundering expression. It
is a sly insinuation that length of years, and the being much _hacknied
in the ways of men_, as Shakespeare expresses it, take off the
gloss of virtue, and bring much defilement on the manners. Warburton.]
Much of this is true, but I believe Shakespeare did not intend
to bestow all this reflection on the speaker.

III.v.40 (294,1) [an two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind]
This is not out of place, or without meaning. Dogberry, in his
vanity of superiour parts, apologizing for his neighbour, observes,
that _of two men on an horse, one must ride behind_. The _first_
place of rank or understanding can belong but to _one_, and that
happy _one_ ought not to despise his inferiour.

IV.i.22 (296,2) [Interjections? Why, then some be of laughing] This
is a quotation from the Accidence.

IV.i.42 (296,3) [luxurious bed] That is, _lascivious_. _Luxury_ is the
confessor's term for unlawful pleasures of the sex.

IV.i.53 (297,5) [word too large] So he uses _large jests_ in this play,
for _licentious, not restrained within due bounds_.

IV.i.57 (297,6) [I will write against it] [W: rate against] As to
_subscribe to_ any thing is to _allow_ it, so to _write against_ is to
_disallow_ or _deny_.

IV.i.59 (297,7) [chaste as is the bud] Before the air has tasted its
sweetness.

IV.i.75 (298,8) [kindly power] That is, _natural power_. _Kind_ is
_nature_.

IV.i.93 (298,9) [liberal villain] _Liberal_ here, as in many places of
these plays, means, _frank beyond honesty_ or _decency_. _Free of
tongue_. Dr. Warburton unnecessarily reads, _illiberal_.

IV.i. 101 (299,1) [O Hero! What a Hero hadst thou been] I am afraid
here is intended a poor conceit upon the word _Hero_.

IV.i.123 (300,2) [The story that is printed in her blood?] That is,
_the story which her blushes discover to be true_.

IV.i.128 (300,3) [Griev'd I, I had but one? Chid I for that at frugal
nature's frame?] [W: nature's 'fraine] Though _frame_ be not the word
which appears to a reader of the present time most proper to exhibit
the poet's sentiment, yet it may as well be used to shew that
he had _one child_, and _no more_, as that he had a _girl_, not a _boy_,
and as it may easily signify _the system of things_, or _universal
scheme_, the whole order of beings is comprehended, there arises
no difficulty from it which requires to be removed by so violent
an effort as the introduction of a new word offensively mutilated.

IV.i.137 (301,4) [But mine, and mine I lov'd, and mine I prais'd,
And mine that I was proud on] [W: "as mine" in three places] Even
of this small alteration there is no need. The speaker utters
his emotion abruptly, But _mine_, _and mine_ that _I loved_, &c. by an
ellipsis frequent, perhaps too frequent, both in verse and prose.

IV.i.187 (303,6) [bent of honour] _Bent_ is used by our authour for the
utmost degree of any passion, or mental quality.  In this play
before Benedick says of Beatrice, _her affection has its full bent_.
The expression is derived from archery; the bow has its _bent_, when
it is drawn as far as it can be.

IV.i.206 (304,8) [ostentation] Show; appearance.

IV.i.251 (305,1) [The smallest twine nay lead me] This is one of our
author's observations upon life. Men overpowered with distress,
eagerly listen to the first offers of relief, close with every
scheme, and believe every promise. He that has no longer any
confidence in himself, is glad to repose his trust in any other that
will undertake to guide him.

IV.ii.70 (311,6) [_Sexton_. Let them be in hand] There is nothing in
the old quarto different in this scene from the common copies,
except that the names of two actors, Kempe and Cowley, are placed at
the beginning of the speeches, instead of the proper words, (see
1765, III,249,7)

V.i.15 (313,7)

    [If such a one will smile and stroke his beard;
    And, sorrow wag! cry; hem, when he should groan]

Sir Thomas Hammer, and after him Dr. Warburton, for _wag_ read
_waive_, which is, I suppose, the same as, _put aside_ or _shift off_.
None of these conjectures satisfy me, nor perhaps any other reader.
I cannot but think the true meaning nearer than it is imagined.
I point thus,

 _If such an one will smile, and stroke his beard,
    And, sorrow wag! cry; hem, when he should groan;_

That is, _If he will smile, and cry_ sorrow be gone, _and hem instead_
of groaning. The order in which _and_ and _cry_ are placed is harsh,
and this harshness made the sense mistaken. Range the words in
the common order, and my reading will be free from all difficulty.

 _If such an one will smile, and stroke his beard,
    Cry, sorrow, wag! and hem when he should groan._


V.i.32 (314,8) [My griefs cry louder than advertisement] That is,
than _admonition_, than _moral instruction_.

V.i.102 (318,4) [we will not wake your patience] [W: wrack] This
emendation is very specious, and perhaps is right; yet the present
reading may admit a congruous meaning with less difficulty than
many other of Shakespeare's expressions.

The old men have been both very angry and outrageous; the
prince tells them that he and Claudio _will not_ wake _their patience_;
will not any longer force them to _endure_ the presence of those
whom, though they look on them as enemies, they cannot resist.

V.i.138 (319,6) [to turn his girdle] We have a proverbial speech,
_If he be angry, let him turn the buckle of his girdle_. But I do
not know its original or meaning.

V.i.166 (320,7) [a wise gentleman] This jest depending on the colloquial
use of words is now obscure; perhaps we should read, _a wise
gentle man_, or _a man wise enough to be a coward_. Perhaps _wise
gentleman_ was in that age used ironically, and always stood for
_silly fellow_.

V.i.231 (322,9) [one meaning well suited] That is, _one meaning is
put into many different dresses_; the prince having asked the same
question in four modes of speech.

V.ii.9 (326,3) [To have no man come over me? why, shall I always
keep below stairs?] [T: above] I suppose every reader will find
the meaning of the old copies.

V.ii.l7 (327,4) [I give thee the bucklers] I suppose that _to give
the bucklers_ is, _to yield_, or _to lay by all thoughts of defence_,
so _clipeum abjicere_. The rest deserves no comment.

V.iii.13 (330,7) [_Those that slew thy virgin knight_] _Knight_, in its
original signification, means _follower_ or _pupil_, and in this
sense may be feminine. Helena, in All's well that Ends well,
uses _knight_ in the same signification.




LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST

I.i.31 (342,2)

[To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die;
With all these, living in philosophy]

The stile of the rhyming scenes in this play is often entangled
and obscure. I know not certainly to what _all these_ is to be
referred; I suppose he means, that he finds _love_, _pomp_, and
_wealth_ in _philosophy_.

I.i.75 (344,4) [while truth the while Doth falsly blind] _Falsly_ is
here, and in many other places, the same as _dishonestly_ or
_treacherously_. The whole sense of this gingling declamation is only
this, that _a man by too close study may read himself blind_, which
might have been told with less obscurity in fewer words.

I.i.82 (344,5)

[Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed,
And give him light, that it was blinded by]

This is another passage unnecessarily obscure: the meaning is,
that when he _dazzles_, that is, has his eye made weak, _by fixing
his eye upon a fairer eye, that_ fairer _eye shall be his heed_, his
_direction_ or _lode-star_,(See Midsummer-Night's Dream) [_and give him
light that was blinded by it_.

I.i.92 (345,6)

[Too much to know, is, to know nought but fame;
And every godfather can give a name]

[W: "shame" or "feign"] That there are _two ways of setting_ a passage
_right_ gives reason to suspect that there may be a third way
better than either.  The first of these emendations _makes a fine
sense_, but will not unite with the next line; the other makes a
sense less fine, and yet will not rhyme to the correspondent word.
I cannot see why the passage may not stand without disturbance.
_The consequence_, says Biron, _of too much knowledge_, is not any
real solution of doubts, but mere empty _reputation_.  That is, _too
much knowledge gives only fame, a name which every godfather can
give likewise_.  (1773)

I.i.95 (345,7) [Proceeded well to stop all good proceeding] To _proceed_
is an academical term, meaning, _to take a degree_, as _he_ proceeded
_bachelor in physick_. The sense is, _he has taken his degrees
on the art of hindering the degrees of others_.

I.i.153 (348,1) [Not by might master'd, but by especial grace] Biron,
amidst his extravagancies, speaks with great justness against the
folly of vows.  They are made without sufficient regard to the
variations of life, and are therefore broken by some unforeseen
necessity.  They proceed commonly from a presumptuous confidence,
and a false estimate of human power.

I.i.159 (349,2) [Suggestions] Temptations.

I.i.162 (349,3) [quick recreation] Lively sport, spritely diversion.

I.i.169 (349,4)

[A man of complements, whom right and wrong
Have chose as umpire of their mutiny]

This passage, I believe, means no more than that Don Armado was a
man nicely versed in ceremonial distinctions, one who could distinguish
in the most delicate questions of honour the exact boundaries
of right and wrong. _Compliment_, in Shakespeare's time, did
not signify, at least did not only signify verbal civility, or
phrases of courtesy, but according to its original meaning, the
trapping, or ornamental appendages of a character, in the same
manner, and on the same principles of speech with _accomplishment.
Compliment_ is, as Arwado well expresses it, _the varnish of a
complete man_.

I.i.174 (350,6) [in the world's debate] The _world_ seems to be used in
a monastick sense by the king, now devoted for a time to a monastic
life.  _In the world, in seculo_, in the bustle of human affairs,
from which we are now happily sequestred, _in the world_, to which
the votaries of solitude have no relation.

I.i.252 (353,1) [_base minow of thy mirth_] A _minnow_ is a little fish
which cannot be intended here. We may read, _the base_ minion _of
thy mirth_.

I.ii.5 (355,2) [dear imp] _Imp_ was anciently a term of dignity. Lord
Cromwell in his last letter to Henry VIII. prays for _the_ imp _his
son_. It is now used only in contempt or abhorrence; perhaps in
our authour's time it was ambiguous, in which state it suits well
with this dialogue.

I.ii.36 (356,3) [crosses love not him] By _crosses_ he means money. So
in As you like it, the Clown says to Celia, _if I should bear you,
I should bear no cross_.


I.ii.150 (360,7) [_Jaq_. Fair weather after you!
                 _Dull_. Come, Jaquenetta, away]

[Theobald had reassigned two speeches] Mr. Theobald has endeavoured
here to dignify his own industry by a very slight performance.
The folios all read as he reads, except that instead of
naming the persons they give their characters, enter _Clown,
Constable, and Wench_.

I.ii.168 (361,8) [It is not for prisoners to be silent in their words]
I suppose we should read, it is not for prisoners to be silent in
their _wards_, that is, in _custody_, in the _holds_.

I.ii.183 (361,9) [The first and second cause will not serve my turn]
See the last act of As you like it, with the notes.

II.i.15 (362,1)

[Beauty is bought by judgment of the eye,
Not utter'd by base sale of chapmen's tongues]

Chapman here seems to signify the _seller_, not, as now commonly,
the _buyer_.  _Cheap_ or _cheping_ was anciently the _market_, _chapman_
therefore is _marketman_. The meaning is, that _that the estimation
of beauty depends not on the_ uttering or _proclamation of the
seller, but on the eye of the buyer_.

II.i.45 (363,2) [Well fitted] is _well qualified_.

II.i.49 (363,3) [match'd with] is _combined_ or _joined_ with.

II.i.105 (365,4) ['Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord; And
sin to break it] Sir T. Hammer reads,

  Not _sin to break it_.

I believe erroneously. The Princess shews an inconvenience very
frequently attending rash oaths, which, whether kept or broken,
produce guilt.

II.i.203 (369,6) [God's blessing on your beard!] That is, mayst thou
have sense and seriousness more proportionate to thy beard, the
length of which suits ill with such idle catches of wit.

II.i.223 (370,7) [My lips are no common, though several they be]
_Several_, is an inclosed field of a private proprietor, so Maria
says, _her lips_ are _private property_. Of a lord that was newly
married one observed that he grew fat; Yes, said sir Walter
Raleigh, any beast will grow fat, if you take him from the
_common_ and graze him in the _several_.

II.i.238 (370,8) [His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see]
That is, _his tongue being impatiently desirous to see as well as_
_speak_.

II. i. 241 (370,9) [To feel only looking] Perhaps we may better read,
_To_ feed _only_ by _looking_.

II. i. 262 (371,1) [_Boyet_. You are too hard for me] [Theobald did not
end Act II here] Mr. Theobald has reason enough to propose this
alteration, but he should not have made it in his book without
better authority or more need. I have therefore preserved his
observation, but continued the former division.

III.i (372,2) [_Enter Armado, and Moth._] In the folios the direction
is, _enter Braggart and Moth_, and at the beginning of every speech
of Armado stands _Brag_, both in this and the foregoing scene between
him and his boy. The other personages of this play are
likewise noted by their characters as often as by their names.
All this confusion has been well regulated by the later editors.

III.i.3 (372,3) [Concolinel] Here is apparently a song lost.

III. i. 22 (373,5) [These are complements] Dr. Warburton has here
changed _complements_ to _'complishments_, for accomplishments, but
unnecessarily.

III. i. 32 (374,8) [but a colt] _Colt_ is a hot, mad-brained, unbroken
young fellow; or sometimes an old fellow with youthful desires.

III. i. 62 (375,9) [You are too swift, Sir, to say so] How is he too
swift for saying that lead is slow? I fancy we should read, as
well to supply the rhyme as the sense,

  _You are too swift, sir, to say so, so soon
  Is that lead slow, sir, which is fir'd from a gun?_

III. i. 68 (375,1) [By thy favour, sweet welkin] Welkin is the sky, to
which Armado, with the false dignity of a Spaniard, makes an apology for
sighing in its face.

III. i. 73 (376,3) [no salve in the male, Sir] The old folio reads, _no
salve in_ thee _male, sir_, which, in another folio, is, _no salve,
in the male, sir_. What it can mean is not easily discovered: if
_mail_ for a _packet_ or _bag_ was a word then in use, _no salve in the
mail_ may mean, no salve in the mountebank's budget. Or shall we
read, _no enigma, no riddle, no l'envoy--in the_ vale, _sir--O, sir.
plantain_. The matter is not great, but one would wish for some
meaning or other.

III. i.112 (377,5) [how was there a Costard broken in a shin?] _Costard_
is the name of a species of apple.

III. i.136 (378,7) [my in-cony Jew] [W. jewel] I know not whether it
be fit, however specious, to change _Jew_ to _jewel_. _Jew_, in our
author's time, was, for whatever reason, apparently a word of endearment.
So in Midsummer-Night's Dream,

_Most tender Juvenile, and eke most lovely_ Jew. (see 1765, II,144,9)

III.i.182 (381,2) [This signior Junto's giant-dwarf. Don Cupid] Mr.
Upton has made a very ingenious conjecture on this passage. He
reads,

_This signior_ Julio's _giant-dwarf_--

Shakespeare, says he, intended to compliment Julio Romano, who
drew Cupid in the character of a giant-dwarf. Dr. Warburton
thinks, that by Junio is meant youth in general.

III.i.188 (382,3) [Of trotting paritors] An _apparitor_, or _paritor_.
is an officer of the bishop's court who carries out citations;
as citations are most frequently issued for fornication, the
_paritor_ is put under Cupid's government.

III.i.189 (382,4)

[And I to be a corporal of his field,
And wear his colours! like a tumbler's hoop!]

The conceit seems to be very forced and remote, however it be
understood.  The notion is not that the _hoop wears colours_, but
that the colours are worn as a _tumbler_ carries his _hoop_, hanging
on one shoulder and falling under the opposite arm.

III.i.207 (383,5) [Some men must love my lady, and some Joan] To this
line Mr. Theobald extends his second act, not injudiciously, but,
as was before observed, without sufficient authority.

IV.i.19 (384,6) [Here,--good my glass] To understand how the princess
has her glass so ready at hand in a casual conversation, it
must be remembered that in those days it was the fashion among
the French ladies to wear a looking-glass,' as Mr. Bayle coarsely
represents it, _on their bellies_; that is, to have a small mirrour
set in gold hanging at the girdle, by which they occasionally
viewed their faces or adjusted their hair.

IV.i.35 (385,8) [that my heart means no ill] [W: tho'] _That my heart
means no ill_, is the same with _to whom my heart means no ill_; the
common phrase suppresses the particle, as _I mean him_ [not _to_ him]
_no harm_.

IV.i.41 (386,9) [a member of the commonwealth] Here, I believe, is a
kind of jest intended; a member of the _common_-wealth is put for
one of the _common_ people, one of the meanest.

IV.i.49 (386,1)

[An' your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit,
One o' these maids girdles for your waist should be fit]

[W: my waste ... your wit ... my waste] This conjecture is ingenious
enough, but not well considered. It is plain that the ladies girdles
would not fit the princess. For when she has referred the
clown to _the thickest and the tallest_, he turns immediately to
her with the blunt apology, _truth is truth_; and again tells her,
_you are the thickest here_.  If any alteration is to be made, I
should propose,

_An' your waist, mistress, were as slender as_ your _wit_.

This would point the reply; but perhaps he mentions the slenderness
of his own wit to excuse his bluntness.

IV.i.59 (387,3) [Break the neck of the wax] Still alluding to the
capon.

IV.i.65 (388,5) [_king_ Cophetua] This story is again alluded to in
Henry IV.

_Let king Cophetua know the truth thereof._

But of this king and beggar, the story, then doubtless well
known, is, I am afraid, lost. Zenelophon has not appearance of
a female name, but since I know not the true none, it is idle to
guess.

IV.i.99 (389,7) [ere while] Just now; a little while ago. So
Raleigh,

_Here lies Hobbinol our shepherd_, while e'er.

IV.i.108 (390,9) [Come, lords, away] Perhaps the Princess said rather,

 --_Come_, ladies, _away_.

The rest of the scene deserves no care.

IV.ii (392,2) [_Enter Dull, Holofernes, and Sir Nathaniel_] I am not
of the learned commentator's [Wurburton] opinion, that the satire
of Shakespeare is so seldom personal.  It is of the nature of
personal invectives to be soon unintelligible; and the authour
that gratifies private malice, _aniuam in vulnere ponit_, destroys
the future efficacy of his own writings, and sacrifices the esteem
of succeeding times to the laughter of a day.  It is no
wonder, therefore, that the sarcasms, which, perhaps, in the
authour's time, _set the_ playhouse _in a roar_, are now lost among
general reflections.  Yet whether the character of Holofernes
was pointed at any particular man, I am, notwithstanding the
plausibility of Dr. Warburton's conjecture, inclined to doubt.
Every man adheres as long as he can to his own pre-conceptions.
Before I read this note I considered the character of Holofernes
as borrowed from the Rhombus of sir Philip Sidney, who, in a kind
of pastoral entertainment, exhibited to queen Elizabeth, has
introduced a school-master so called, speaking _a leash of languages
at once_, and puzzling himself and his auditors with a jargon like
that of Holofernes in the present play.  Sidney himself might
bring the character from Italy; for, as Peacham observes, the
school-master has long been one of the ridiculous personages in
the farces of that country.

IV.ii.29 (395,4)

[And such barren plants are set before us, that we
  thankful should be,
Which we taste and feeling are for those parts that do fructify
  in us, more than he]

Sir T. Hammer reads thus,

_And such barren plants are set before us, that we
  thankful should be,
For those parts which we taste and feel do fructify
  in us more than he._

And Mr. Edwards, in his animadversions on Dr. Warburton's notes,
applauds the emendation. I think both the editors mistaken,
except that sir T. Hammer found the metre, though he missed the
sense. I read, with a slight change,

  _And such barren plants are set before us, that we
     thankful should be_,
  When _we taste and feeling are for those parts that
     do fructify in us more than he_.

That is, _such barren plants_ are exhibited in the creation, to
make us _thankful when we have more taste and feeling than he, of
those parts_ or qualities _which_ produce fruit _in us_, and preserve
as from being likewise _barren plants_. Such is the sense, just
in itself and pious, but a little clouded by the diction of sir
Nathaniel. The length of these lines was no novelty on the
English stage. The moralities afford scenes of the like measure.
(1773)

IV.ii.32 (396,5)

  [For as it would ill become me to be vain, indiscreet,
     or a fool;
  So were there a patch set on learning, to see
     him in a school]

The meaning is, to be in a school would as ill become a _patch_,
or low fellow, as folly would become me.

IV.ii.99 (399,2) [_Vinegia. Vinegia, Chi non te vedi, ei non te
pregia_] [This reading is an emendation by Theobald] The proverb,
as I am informed, is this; _He that sees Venice little, values it
much; he that sees it much, values it little_. But I suppose Mr.
Theobald is right, for the true proverb would hot serve the
speaker's purpose.

IV.ii.156 (403,6) [colourable colours] That is specious, or fair
seeming appearances.

IV.iii.3 (403,7) [I am toiling in a pitch] Alluding to lady Rosaline's
complexion, who is through the whole play represented
as a black beauty.

IV.iii.29 (404,8) [The night of dew, that on my cheeks down flows]
I cannot think the _night of dew_ the true reading, but know not
what to offer.

IV.iii.47 (405,9) [he comes in like a perjure, wearing papers] The
punishment of perjury is to wear on the breast a paper expressing
the crime.

IV.iii.74 (406,2) [the liver-vein] The liver was anciently supposed
to be the seat of love.

IV.iii.110 (408,5) [_Air, would I might triumph so_!] Perhaps we may
better read,

  Ah! _would I might triumph so!_

IV.iii.117 (409,7) [ay true love's fasting pain] [W: festring]
There is no need of any alteration. _Fasting_ is _longing, hungry,
wanting_.

IV.iii.148 (410,8) [How will he triumph, leap, and laugh at it?]
[W: geap] To _leap_ is to _exult_, to skip for joy. It must stand.

IV.iii.166 (410,9) [To see a king transformed to a knot!] _Knot_ has
no sense that can suit this place. We may read _sot_. The rhimes
in this play are such, as that _sat_ and _sot_ may be well enough
admitted.

IV.iii.180 (412,2) [With men like men] [W: vane-like] This is well
imagined, but perhaps the poet may mean, with _men like_ common
_men_.

IV.iii.231 (414,3) [She (an attending star)] Something like this is
a stanza of sir Henry Wotton, of which the poetical reader will
forgive the insertion.

  _--Ye stars, the train of night,
    That poorly satisfy our eyes
  More by your number than your light:
    Ye common people of the skies,
  What are ye when the sun shall rise_.

IV.iii.256 (415,6) [And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well]
[W: crete] This emendation cannot be received till its authour
can prove that _crete_ is an English word. Besides, _crest_ is
here properly opposed to _badge_. _Black_, says the King, is the
_badge of hell_, but that which graces the heaven is _the crest of_
beauty. _Black_ darkens hell, and is therefore hateful; _white_
adorns heaven, and is therefore lovely.

IV.iii.290 (417,8) [affection's men at arms] _A man at arms_, is a
soldier armed at all points both offensively and defensively.
It is no more than, _Ye soldiers of affection_.

IV.iii.313 (418,2) [Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye] i.e. a
lady's eyes gives a fuller notion of beauty than any authour.

IV.iii.321 (418.3) [In leaden contemplation have found out Such
fiery numbers] _Numbers_ are, in this passage, nothing more than
_poetical measures_.  _Could you_, says Biron, _by solitary contemplation,
have attained such poetical_ fire, _such spritely numbers,
as have been prompted by the eyes of beauty_? The astronomer,
by looking too much aloft, falls into a ditch.

IV.iii.358 (422,9)

  [Or for love's sake, a word, that loves all men;
  Or for men's sake, the author of these women;
  Or women's sake, by whom we men are men]

Perhaps we might read thus, transposing the lines,

  _Or for love's sake, a word that loves all men;
  For women's sake, by whom we men are men;
  Or for men's sake, the authours of these women_.

The antithesis of _a word that all men love_, and _a word which
loves all men_, though in itself worth little, has much of the
spirit of this play.

IV.iii.386 (423,2) [If so, our copper buys no better treasure] Here
Mr. Theobald ends the third act.

V.i.3 (423,3) [your reasons at dinner have been sharp and sententious]
I know not well what degree of respect Shakespeare intends
to obtain for this vicar, but he has here put into his mouth a
finished representation of colloquial excellence.  It is very
difficult to add any thing to this character of the school-master's
table-talk, and perhaps all the precepts of Castiglione
will scarcely be found to comprehend a rule for conversation so
justly delineated, so widely dilated, and so nicely limited.

It may be proper just to note, that _reason_ here, and in many
other places, signifies _discourse_; and that _audacious_ is used in
a good sense for _spirited, animated, confident_. _Opinion_ is the
same with _obstinacy_ or _opinionated_.

V.i.14 (424,4) [He is too picked] To have the beard _piqued_ or shorn
so as to end in a point, was, in our authour's time, a mark of a
traveller affecting foreign fashions: so says the Bastard in K.
John,
    --_I catechise
    _My_ piqued _man of countries_.

V.i.29 (425,6) [(_Ne intelligis, Domine._) to make frantick, lunatick?]
There seems yet something wanting to the integrity of this passage,
which Mr. Theobald has in the most corrupt and difficult
places very happily restored. For _ne intelligis domine, to make
frantick, lunatick_, I read, (nonne _intelligis, domine?_) to _be_
mad, frantick, lunatick.

V.i.44 (427,6) [_honorificabilitudinitatibus_] This word, whencesoever
it comes, is often mentioned as the longest word known.
(1773)

V.i.110 (429,6) [dally with my excrement] The authour has before
called the beard _valour's excrement_ in the Merchant of Venice.

V.ii.43 (432,5) ['Ware pencils!] The former editions read,

    Were _pencils_----

Sir T. Hammer here rightly restored,

    'Ware _pencils_-----

Rosaline, a black beauty, reproaches the fair Catherine for
painting.

V.ii.69 (434,9) [None are so surely caught when they are catch'd,
As wit turn'd fool] These are observation worthy of a man who
has surveyed human nature with the closest attention.

V.ii.87 (434,1) [Saint Dennis to St. Cupid!] The Princess of France
invokes, with too much levity, the patron of her country, to oppose
his power to that of Cupid.

V.ii.117 (435,2) [spleen ridiculous] is, a ridiculous _fit_.

V.ii.205 (439,5) [Vouchsafe, bright moon, and these thy stars] When
queen Elizabeth asked an ambassadour how he liked her ladies, _It
is hard,_ said he, _to judge of stars in the presence of the sun._

V.ii.235 (440,6) [Since you can cog] To _cog_ signifies _to falsify the
dice,_ and _to falsify a narrative,_ or _to lye._

V.ii.281 (442,7) [better wits have worn plain statute-caps] This
line is not universally understood, because every reader does
not know that a statute cap is part of the academical habit.
Lady Rosaline declares that her expectation was disappointed by
these courtly students, and that _better wits_ might be found in the
common places of education. [Gray had offered a different explanation]
I think my own interpretation of this passage right. (see
1765, II,197,3)

V.ii.295 (443,8)

  [Fair ladies, mask'd, are roses in their bud;
  Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shewn,
  Are angels vailing clouds, or roses blown]

[Hammer: angels vailing clouds] [Warburton exercised his sarcasm
on this] I know not why Sir T. Hanmer's explanation should be
treated with so much contempt, or why _vailing clouds_ should be
_capping the sun.  Ladies unmask'd,_ says Boyet, _are_ like _angels
vailing clouds,_ or letting those clouds which obscured their
brightness, sink from before them. What is there in this absurd
or contemptible?

V.ii.309 (444,1) [_Exeunt ladies_] Mr. Theobald ends the fourth act
here.

V.ii.337 (447,4) [--behaviour, what wert thou, 'Till this
mad man shew'd thee? and what art thou now?] [These are two
wonderfully fine lines, intimating that what courts call _manners,_
and value themselves so much upon teaching, as a thing no where
else to be learnt, is a modest silent accomplishment under the
direction of nature and common sense, which does its office in
promoting social life without being taken notice of. But that
when it degerates into shew and parade, it becomes an unmanly
contemptible quality. Warburton.] What is told in this note is
undoubtedly true, but is not comprised in the quotation.

V.ii.348 (448,5) [The virtue of your eye must break my oath] I believe
the author means that the _virtue,_ in which word _goodness_
and _power_ are both comprised, _must dissolve_ the obligation of the
oath. The Princess, in her answer, takes the most invidious part
of the ambiguity.

V.ii.374 (449,6)

                        [when we greet
  With eyes best seeing, heaven's fiery eye,
  By light we lose light: your capacity
  Is of that nature, as to your huge store
  Wise things seem foolish, and rich things but poor]


This is a very lofty and elegant compliment.

V.ii.419 (450,7) [Write, _Lord have mercy on us_, on those three] This
was the inscription put upon the door of the houses infected with
the plague, to which Biron compares the love of himself and his
companions; and pursuing the metaphor finds the _tokens_ likewise
on the ladies. The _tokens_ of the plague are the first spots or
discolorations, by which the infection is known to be received.

V.ii.426 (451,8) [how can this be true, That you stand forfeit,
being those that sue?] That is, how can those be liable to forfeiture
that begin the process. The jest lies in the ambiguity of _sue_,
which signifies _to prosecute by law_, or to _offer a petition_.

V.ii.440 (451,9) [you force not to forswear] _You force not_ is the
same with _you make no difficulty_. This is a very just
observation. The crime which has been once committed, is committed
again with less reluctance.

V.ii.471 (452,2) [in will and error. Much upon this it is:--And
might not you] I, believe this passage should be read thus,

     --_in will and error_.
  Boyet. _Much upon this it is_.
  Biron. _And might not you_, &c.


V.ii.490 (453,5) [You cannot beg us] That is, we are not fools, our
next relations cannot _beg_ the wardship of our persons and
fortunes. One of the legal tests of a _natural_ is to try whether he
can number.

V.ii.517 (454,6)

    [That sport best pleases, that doth least know how.
    Where zeal strives to content, and the contents
    Dies in the zeal of that which it presents]

The third line may be read better thus,

     --_the contents_
  _Die in the zeal of_ him _which_ them _presents_.

This sentiment of the Princess is very natural, but less generous
than that of the Amazonian Queen, who says, on a like occasion,
in Midsummer-Night's Dream,

    _I love not to see wretchedness o'ercharg'd_,
    _Nor duty in his service perishing_.


V.ii.547 (455,8) [A bare throw at novum] This passage I do not understand.
I fancy that _novum_ should be _novem_, and that some allusion
is intended between the play of _nine pins_ and the play of the _nine_
worthies, but it lies too deep for my investigation.

V.ii.581 (457,2) [A-jax] There is a conceit of _Ajax_ and _a jakes_.

V.ii.694 (461,4) [more Ates] That is, more instigation. Ate was
the mischievous goddess that incited bloodshed.

V.ii.702 (461,5) [my arms] The weapons and armour which he wore in
the character of Pompey.

V.ii.744 (463,8) [In the converse of breath] Perhaps _converse_ may,
in this line, mean _interchange_.

V.ii.755 (464,2) [which fain it would convince] We must read,

   --_which fain_ would it _convince_;

that is, the entreaties of love which would fain _over-power_ grief.
So Lady Macbeth declares, _That she will_ convince _the chamberlain
with wine_.

V.ii.762 (464,3) [Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief]
As it seems not very proper for Biron to court the princess for
the king in the king's presence, at this critical moment, I
believe the speech is given to a wrong person. I read thus,

        Prin. _I understand you not, my griefs are double:
    Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief._
        King. _And by these badges_, &c.


V.ii.779 (465,4) [Suggested us] That is, _tempted_ us.

V.ii.790 (465,5) [As bombast, and as lining to the time] This line
is obscure. _Bombast_ was a kind of loose texture not unlike what
is now called wadding, used to give the dresses of that time bulk
and protruberance, without much increase of weight; whence the
same name is given a tumour of words unsupported by solid
sentiment. The Princess, therefore, says, that they considered this
courtship as but _bombast_, as something to fill out life, which
not being closely united with it, might be thrown away at pleasure.

V.ii.795 (466,7) [We did not quote them so] [We should read, _quote_,
esteem, reckon. Warburton] though our old writers spelling by
the ear, probably wrote _cote_, as it was pronounced. (see 1765,
II,218,5)

V.ii.823 (467,8) [To flatter up these powers of mine with rest] Dr.
Warburton would read _fetter_, but _flatter_ or _sooth_ is, in my
opinion, more apposite to the king's purpose than _fetter_. Perhaps we
may read,

    _To flatter_ on _these_ hours of time _with rest_;

That is, I would not deny to live in the hermitage, to make the
year of delay pass in quiet.

V.ii.873 (469,2) [dear groans] _Dear_ should here, as in many other
places, be _dere_, sad, odious.

V.ii.904 (470,3) [_When daisies pied, and violets blue_] The first
lines of this song that were transposed, have been replaced by
Mr. Theobald.

V.ii.907 (470,5) [_Do paint the meadows with delight_] [W: much
bedight] Much less elegant than the present reading.

(472,7) General Observation. In this play, which all the editors
have concurred to censure, and some have rejected as unworthy of him.




Vol. III


A MIDSUMMER-NIGHT'S DREAM

I.i.6 (4,2) [Long withering out a young man's revenue] [W: wintering]
That the common reading is not good English, I cannot perceive,
and therefore find in myself no temptation to change it.

I.i.47 (5,6) [To leave the figure, or disfigure it] [W: 'leve] I know
not why so harsh a word should be admitted with so little need, a
word that, spoken, could not be understood, and of which no example
can be shown. The sense is plain, _you owe to your father a being
which he may at pleasure continue or destroy_.

I.i.68 (6,8) [Know of your youth] Bring your youth to the question.
Consider your youth. (1773)

I.i.76 (7,9) [But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd] Thus all the
copies, yet _earthlier_ is so harsh a word, and _earthlier happy_ for
_happier earthly_, a mode of speech so unusual, that I wonder none
of the editors have proposed _earlier happy_.

I.i.110 (8,2) [spotted] As _spotless_ is innocent, so _spotted_ is wicked.
(1773)

I.i.131 (9,3) [Beteem them] give them, bestow upon then. The word is
used by Spenser.

I.i.157 (10,8) [I have a widow aunt, a dowager] These lines perhaps
might more properly be regulated thus:

   _I have a widow aunt, a dowager
    Of great revenue, and she hath no child,
    And she respects me as her only son;
    Her house from Athens is remov'd seven leagues,
    There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee,
    And to that place--_

I.i.169-178 (11,1) [Warburton had reassigned speeches here] This
emendation is judicious, but not necessary. I have therefore
given the note without altering the text. The censure of men,
as oftner perjured than women, seems to make that line more
proper for the lady.

I.i.183 (12,3) [Your eyes are lode-stars] This was a complement not
unfrequent among the old poets. The lode star is the _leading_ or
guiding star, that is, the pole-star. The magnet is, for the
same reason, called the _lode-stone_, either became it leads iron,
or because it guides the sailor. Milton has the same thought in
L'Allegro:

   _Tow'rs and battlements he sees
    Bosom'd high in tufted trees,
    Where perhaps some beauty lies,
    The_ Cynosure _of neighb'ring eyes._

Davies calls Elizabeth, _lode-stone_ to hearts, and _lode-stone_
to all eyes, (see 1765, 1,97,9)

I.i.204 (13,6)

    [Before the time I did Lysander see,
    Seem'd Athens like a paradise to me]

Perhaps every reader may not discover the propriety of these
lines. Hermia is willing to comfort Helena, and to avoid all
appearance of triumph over her. She therefore bids her not to
consider the power of pleasing, as an advantage to be much envied
or much desired, since Hermia, whom she considers as possessing
it in the supreme degree, has found no other effect of it than
the loss of happiness.

I.i.232 (15,8) [Things base and vile, holding no quantity] _quality_
seems a word more suitable to the sense than quantity, but either
may serve. (1773)

I.i.240 (15,9) [in game] _Game_ here signifies not contentious play,
but _sport, jest_. So Spenser,

    _'Twixt earnest and 'twixt_ game.

I.ii (16,2) [_Enter Quince the carpenter, Snug the joiner. Bottom the
weaver. Flute the bellows-mender. Snout the tinker, and Starveling
the taylor_] In this scene Shakespeare takes advantage of his
knowledge of the theatre, to ridicule the prejudices and competitions
of the players. Bottom, who is generally acknowledged the
principal actor, declares his inclination to be for a tyrant, for
a part of fury, tumult, and noise, such as every young man pants
to perform when he first steps upon the stage. The same Bottom,
who seems bred in a tiring-room, has another histrionical passion.
He is for engrossing every part, and would exclude his inferiors
from all possibility of distinction. He is therefore desirous to
play Pyramus, Thisbe, and the Lyon at the same time.

I.ii.10 (17,4) [grow on to a point] Dr. Warburton read _go on_; but
_grow_ is used, in allusion to his name, Quince. (see 1765, I,100,8)

I.ii.52 (18,6)

[_Flu._ Nay, faith, let me not play a woman; I have a beard coming.
_Quin._ That's all one, you shall play it in a masque; and you may
speak as small as you will]

This passage shews how the want of women on the old stage was
supplied. If they had not a young man who could perform the part with
a face that might pass for feminine, the character was acted in a
mask, which was at that time part of a lady's dress so much in use
that it did not give any unusual appearance to the scene: and he that
could modulate his voice in a female tone might play the women very
successfully. It is observed in Downes's Memoirs of the Playhouse,
that one of these counterfeit heroines moved the passions more
strongly than the women that have since been brought upon the stage.
Some of the catastrophes of the old comedies, which make lovers marry
the wrong women, are, by recollection of the common use of masks,
brought nearer to probability.

I.ii.98 (20,8) [_Bot_. I will discharge it in either your straw-coloured
beard, your orange tawny beard, your purple-in grain beard, or your
French crown-coloured beard; your perfect yellow] Here Bottom
again discovers a true genius for the stage by his solicitude for
propriety of dress, and his deliberation which beard to chuse among
many beards, all unnatural.

II.i.2 (21,3) [Over hill, over dale] So Drayton in his Court of Fairy,

  _Thorough brake_, _thorough brier_.
  _Thorough muck_, _thorough mire_.
  _Thorough water_, _thorough fire_.


II.i.9 (22,4) [To dew her orbs upon the green] For _orbs_ Dr. Gray is
inclined to substitute _herbs_. The orbs here mentioned are the
circles supposed to be made by the Fairies on the ground, whose
verdure proceeds from the fairy's care to water them.

  _They in their courses make that_ round,
  _In meadows and in marshes found_,
  _Of then so called the fairy ground_.  Drayton.

II.i.10 (22,5) [The cowslips tall her pensioners be] The cowslip was
a favourite among the fairies. There is a hint in Drayton of
their attention to May morning.

 --_for the queen a fitting tow'r_,
  _Quoth he, is that fair_ cowslip flow'r.--
  _In all your train there's not a fay_
  _That ever went_ to gather May,
  _But she hath made it in her way_,
  _The_ tallest _there that groweth_.


II.i.16 (22,7) [lob of spirits] _Lob_, _lubber_, _looby_, _lobcock_,
all denote both inactivity of body and dulness of mind.

II.i.23 (23,8) [changeling] _Changeling_ is commonly used for the
child supposed to be left by the fairies, but here for the child
taken away.

II.i.29 (23,9) [sheen] Shining, bright, gay.

II.i.30 (23,1) [But they do square] [To _square_ here is to quarrel.
_And now you are such fools to_ square _for this_? Gray.]

The French word _contrecarrer_ has the same import.

II.i.36 (24,4)

  [Skim milk; and sometimes labour in the quern,
  And bootless make the breathless huswife churn]

The sense of these lines is confused. _Are not you he_, says the
fairy, _that fright the country girls_. _that skim milk_, _work in
the hand-mill_, _and make the tired dairy-woman churn without
effect_? The mention of the mill seem out of place, for she is
not now telling the good but the evil that he does.  I would
regulate the lines thus:

  _And sometimes make the breathless housewife churn
  Skim milk, and bootless labour in the quern._

Or by a simple transposition of the lines;

  _And bootless, make the breathless housewife churn
  Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern._

Yet there is no necessity of alteration. (see 1765, I,106,1)

II.i.40 (24,6) [Those that Hobgoblin call you, and sweet Puck, You
do their work] To those traditionary opinions Milton has reference
in L'Allegro,

  _Then to the spicy nut-brown ale,
  With stories told of many a feat.
  How Fairy Mab the junkets eat;
  She was pinch'd and pull'd she said.
  And he by Frier's lapthorp led;
  Tells how the drudging goblin sweat
  To earn his cream-bowl duly set,
  When in one night ere glimpse of morn
  His shadowy flail had thresh'd the corn
  Which ten day-labourers could not end.
  Then lies him down the_ lubber _fiend_.

A like account of Puck is given by Drayton,

  _He meeteth Puck, which most men call
  Hobgoblin, and on him doth fall.--
  This Puck seems but a dreaming dolt,
  Still walking like a ragged colt,
  And oft out of a bed doth bolt,
    Of purpose to deceive us;
  And leading us makes us to stray.
  Long winter's nights out of the way.
  And when we stick in mire and clay.
    He doth with laughter leave us._

It will be apparent to him that shall compare Drayton's poem with
this play, that either one of the poets copied the other, or, as
I rather believe, that there was then some system of the fairy
empire generally received, which they both represented as accurately
as they could.  Whether Drayton or Shakespeare wrote first,
I cannot discover.

II.i.42 (25,7) [_Puck_. Thou speak'st aright] I have filled up the
verse which I suppose the author left complete,

It seems that in the Fairy mythology Puck, or Hobgoblin, was
the trusty servant of Oberon, and always employed to watch or detect
the intrigues of Queen Mab, called by Shakespeare Titania.
For in Drayton's Nynphidia, the same fairies are engaged in the
sane business. Mab has an amour with Pigwiggen; Oberon being
jealous, sends Hobgoblin to catch them, and one of Mab's nymphs
opposes him by a spell.

II.i.54 (26,8) [And _tailor_ cries] The custom of crying _tailor_ at a
sudden fall backwards, I think I remember to have observed. He

that slips beside his chair falls as a taylor squats upon his
board. The Oxford editor and Dr. Warburton after him, read _and
rails or cries_, plausibly, but I believe not rightly. Besides,
the trick of the fairy is represented as producing rather merriment
than anger.

II.i.56 (26,9) [And waxen] And _encrease_, as the _moon waxes_.

II.i.58 (26,1) [But room, Faery] All the old copies read--_But room
Fairy_. The word Fairy or Faery, was sometimes of three syllables,
as often in Spenser.

II.i.84 (28,5) [paved fountain] A fountain laid round the edge with
stone.

II.i.88 (28,6) [the winds, piping] So Milton,

  _While rocking winds are piping loud._

II.i.91 (28,7) [pelting river] Thus the quarto's: the folio reads
_petty_.

Shakespeare has in Lear the same word, _low pelting farms_.  The
meaning is plainly, _despicable, mean, sorry, wretched_; but as it
is a word without any reasonable etymology, I should be glad to
dismiss it for _petty_, yet it is undoubtedly right.  We have _petty
pelting officer_ in Measure for Measure.

II.i.92 (28,8) [over-born their continents] Born down the banks
that contained then. So in Lear,

    _Close pent guilts
  Rive their concealing_ continents.

II.i.98 (29,1) [The nine-men's morris] This was some kind of rural
game played in a marked ground. But what it was more I have not
found.

II.i.100 (29,2) [The human mortals want their winter here] After all
the endeavours of the editors, this passage still remains to me
unintelligible.  I cannot see why winter is, in the general confusion
of the year now described, more wanted than any other season.
Dr. Warburton observes that he alludes to our practice of
singing carols in December; but though Shakespeare is no great
chronologer in his dramas, I think he has never so mingled true
and false religion, as to give us reason for believing that he
would make the moon incensed for the omission of our carols. I
therefore imagine him to have meant heathen rites of adoration.
This is not all the difficulty. Titania's account of this calamity
is not sufficiently consequential. _Men find no winter_, therefore
they sing no hymns; the moon provoked by this omission, alters the
seasons: that is, the alteration of the seasons produces the alteration
of the seasons.  I am far from supposing that Shakespeare
might not sometimes think confusedly, and therefore am not sure
that the passage is corrupted. If we should read,

  _And human mortals want their_ wonted year,

yet will not this licence of alteration much mend the narrative;

the cause and the effect are still confounded.  Let us carry
critical temerity a little further. Scaliger transposed the
lines of Virgil's Gallus.  Why may not the same experiment be
ventured upon Shakespeare.

  _The human mortals want_ their wonted year,
  _The seasons alter; hoary-headed frosts
  Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose;
  And on old_ Hyems' _chin, and icy crown,
  An od'rous chaplet of sweet summer buds
  Is, as in mock'ry set.  The spring, the summer,
  The chiding autumn, angry winter, change
  Their wonted liveries; and the 'mazed world,
  By their increase, now knows not which is which.
  No night is now with hymn or carol blest;
  Therefore the moon, the governess of floods,
  Pale in her anger, washes all the air;
  And thorough this distemperature, we see
  That rheumatick diseases do abound.
  And this same progeny of evil comes
  From our debate, from our dissension._

I know not what credit the reader will give to this emendation,
which I do not much credit myself.

II.i.114 (31,4) [By their increase] That is, _By their produce._

II.i.130 (32,6) [Which she, with pretty and with swimming gate, Following]
[cf: follying] The foregoing note is very ingenious, but
since _follying_ is a word of which I know not any example, and the
Fairy's favourite might, without much licentiousness of language,
be said to _follow_ a ship that sailed in the direction of the
coast; I think there is no sufficient reason for adopting it.
The coinage of new words is a violent remedy, not to be used but
in the last necessity.

II.i.157 (35,8) [Cupid all-arm'd] _All-armed_, does not signify
_dressed in panoply_, but only enforces the word _armed_, as we might
say _all-booted_.  I am afraid that the general sense of _alarmed_,
by which it is used for _put into fear or care by whatever cause_,
is later than our authour.

II.i.220 (38,4) [For that It is not night when I do see your face]
This passage is paraphrased from two lines of an ancient poet,

        --_Tu nocte vel atra
Lumen, et in solis tu mihi turba locis_.

(see 1765, I,118,6)

II.i.251 (39,5) [over-canopy'd with the luscious woodbine] All the
old editions have,

    Quite _over-canopied with luscious woodbine_.

On the margin of one of my folio's an unknown hand has written
_lush_ woodbine, which, I think, is right.

This hand I have since discovered to be Theobald's, (see 1765,
I,119,4)

II.ii. (41,9) [quaint spirits] For this Dr. Warburton reads against
all authority,

 ----_quaint_ sports.----

But Prospero, in _The Tempest,_ applies _quaint_ to Ariel.

II.ii.30 (42.2) [Be it ounce]
The ounce is a snail tiger, or tiger-cat. (1773)

II.ii.45 (43,3)

  [O take the sense, sweet, of my innocence;
  Love takes the meaning in love's conference]

[Warburton wished to transpose "innocence" and "conference"] I am
by no means convinced of the necessity of this alteration. Lysander
in the language of love professes, that as they have one
heart, they shall have one bed; this Hernia thinks rather too
much, and intreats him to _lye further off_.  Lysander answers,

  _O take the sense, sweet, of my_ innocence.

understand _the meaning of my innocence_, or _my innocent meaning._
Let no suspicion of ill enter thy mind.

  _Love takes the meaning, in love's_ conference.

In the conversation of those who are assured of each other's kindness,
not _suspicion_, but _love takes the meaning_.  No malevolent
interpretation is to be made, but all is to be received in the sense
which _love_ can find, and which _love_ can dictate.

II.ii.89 (45,6) [my grace] My acceptableness, the favour that I can
gain.  (1773)

II.ii.120 (46,7) [Reason becomes the marshal to my will] That is,
My will now follows reason.

III.i (48,3) In the time of Shakespeare, there were many companies
of players, sometimes five at the same time, contending for the
favour of the publick.  Of these some were undoubtedly very unskilful
and very poor, and it is probable that the design of this
scene was to ridicule their ignorance, and the odd expedients to
which they might be driven by the want of proper decorations.
Bottom was perhaps the head of a rival house, and is therefore
honoured with an ass's head.

III.i.110 (52,8) [Through bog, through bush, through brake, through
bryer] Here are two syllables wanting. Perhaps, it was written,

  _Through bog_, through mire,-------

III.i.116 (52,9) [to make me afeard]

_Afeard_ is from _to fear_, by the
old form of the language, as _an hungred_, from _to hunger_. So _adry_,
for _thirsty_.  (1773)

III.i.117 (52,1) [O Bottom! thou art chang'd! what do I see on thee?]
It is plain by Bottom's answer, that Snout mentioned an _ass's
head._ Therefore we should read,

  Snout. _O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on
  thee_? An ass's head?

III.i.141 (53,3) [Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note,]

  So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape;
  And thy fair virtue's force

(perforce) [doth move me, On the first view to say, to swear
I love thee]

These lines are in one quarto of 1600, the first folio of 1623,
the second of 1632, and the third of 1664, &c. ranged in the following
order:

  _Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note.
  On the first view to say, to swear, I love thee;
  So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape,
  And thy fair virtue's force (perforce) [doth move me._

This reading I have inserted, not that it can suggest any thing
better than the order to which the lines have been restored by
Mr. Theobald from another quarto, but to shew that some liberty
of conjecture must be allowed in the revisal of works so inaccurately
printed, and so long neglected.

III.i.173 (55,6) [the fiery glow-worm's eyes] I know not how
Shakespeare,who commonly derived his knowledge of nature from his own
observation, happened to place the glow-worm's light in his eyes,
which is only in his tail.

III.ii.9 (56,l) [patches] _Patch_ was in old language used as a term
of opprobry; perhaps with much the some import as we use _raggamuffin_,
or _tatterdemalion_.

III.ii.17 (56,2) [nowl] A head. Saxon.

III.ii.19 (57,4) [minnock] This is the reading of the old quarto, and
I believe right,  _Minnekin_, now _minx_, is a nice trifling girl.
_Minnock_ is apparently a word of contempt.

III.ii.21 (57,5) [sort] Company. So above,

  --_that barren_ sort;

and in Waller,

  _A_ sort _of lusty shepherds strive_.

III.ii.25 (57,6) [And, at our stamp] This seems to be a vicious reading.
Fairies are never represented stamping, or of a size that should give
force to a stamp, nor could they have distinguished the stamps of Puck
from those of their own companions.  I read,

  _And at a_ stump _here o'er and o'er one falls_.

So Drayton,

  _A pain he in his head-piece feels,
  Against a_ stubbed tree _he reels,
  And up went poor hobgoblin's heels;
    Alas, his brain was dizzy_.----
  _At length upon his feet he gets,
  Hobgoblin fumes, Hobgoblin frets,
  And as again he forward sets,
    And through the bushes scrambles,_
  A stump _doth_ trip him _in his pace,
  Down fell poor Hob upon his face,
    Among the briers and brambles._

III.ii.30 (58,7) [Some, sleeves; some, hats] There is the like image
in Drayton of queen Mab and her fairies flying from Hobgoblin.

  _Some tore a ruff, and some a gown,
    'Gainat one another jostling;
  They flew about like chaff i' th' wind,
  For haste some left their masks behind,
  Some could not stay their gloves to find,
    There never was such bustling._

III.ii.48 (58,l) [Being o'er shoes in blood] An allusion to the proverb,
_Over shoes, over boots._

III.ii.70 (59,3) [O brave touch!] _Touch_ in Shakespeare's time was the
same with our _exploit_, or rather _stroke_. A brave touch, a noble
stroke, _un grand coup_. _Mason was very merry, pleasantly playing
both with the shrewd_ touches _of many curst boys, and the small discretion
of many lewd schoolmasters._ Ascham.

III.ii.74 (60,4) [mispris'd] Mistaken; so below _misprision_ is mistake.

III.ii.141 (62,5) [Taurus' snow] Taurus is the name of a range of
mountains in Asia.

III.ii.144 (62,7) [seal of bliss!] Be has elsewhere the same image,

  _But my kisses bring again_
  Seals of love, _but seal'd in vain_, (rev. 1778, III,74,4)

III.ii.150 (62,8) [join in souls] This is surely wrong.  We may read,
_Join in_ scorns, or _join in_ scoffs. [Tyrwhitt: join, ill souls] This
is a very reasonable conjecture, though I think it is hardly right.
(1773)

III.ii.160 (63,9) [extort A poor soul's patience] Harrass, torment.

III.ii.171 (63,1) [My heart with her] We should read,

  _My heart_ with _her but as guest-wise sojourn'd_.

So Prior,

  _No matter what beauties I saw in my way,
  They were but my visits, but then not my home._  (rev. 1778, III,76,9)


III.ii.188 (64,2) [all yon fiery O's] I would willingly believe that
the poet wrote _fiery orbs_.

III.ii.194 (64,3) [in spight to me] I read, _in spite_ to _me_.

III.ii.242 (66,2) [such an argument] Such a _subject_ of light merriment.

III.ii.352 (71,1) [so sort] So happen in the issue.

III.ii.367 (71,2) [virtuous property] Salutiferous. So be calls, in
the Tempest, _poisonous dew_, wicked _dew_.

III.ii.426 (74,5) [buy this dear] i.e. _thou shalt dearly pay for this._
Though this is sense, and may well enough stand, yet the poet
perhaps wrote _thou shalt 'by it dear_.  So in another place, _thou
shalt_ aby it.  So Milton, _How_ dearly I abide _that boust so vain._

IV.i (75,6) I see no reason why the fourth act should begin here,
when there seems no interruption of the action.  In the old quartos
of 1600, there is no division of acts, which seems to have
been afterwards arbitrarily made in the first folio, and may
therefore be altered at pleasure, (see 1765, I,149,5)

IV.i.2 (75,7) [do coy] To _coy_ is to sooth. Skinner, (rev. 1778, III,
89,6)

IV.i.45 (77,2) [So doth the woodbine, the sweet honey-suckle, Gently
entwist] Mr. Upton reads,

  _So doth the_ woodrine _the sweet honey-suckle_,

for bark of the wood.  Shakespeare perhaps only meant so, the
leaves involve the flower, using _woodbine_ for the plant and _honeysuckle_
for the flower; or perhaps Shakespeare made a blunder, (rev.
1778, III,91,2)

IV.i.107 (81,9) [our observation is perform'd] The honours due to the
morning of May.  I know not why Shakespear calls this play a _Midsummer-
Night's Dream_, when he so carefully informs us that it happened
on the night preceding _May_ day.

IV.i.123 (81,4) [so sanded] So marked with small spots.

IV.i.166 (83,6) [Fair Helena in fancy following me] _Fancy_ is here taken
for _love_ or _affection_, and is opposed to _fury_, as before.

  _Sighs and tears poor_ Fancy's _follovers_.

Some now call that which a man takes particular delight in his _Fancy.
Flower-fancier_, for a florist, and _bird-fancier_, for a lover
and feeder of birds, are colloquial words.

IV.i.194 (84,6) [And I have found Demetrius like a jewel] [W: gewell]
This emendation is ingenious enough to deserve to be true.

IV.i.213 (85,8) [patch'd fool] That is, a fool in a particolour'd coat.

IV.ii.14 (86,2) [a thing of nought] which Mr. Theobald changes with
great pomp to _a thing of naught_, is, a _good for nothing thing_.

IV.ii.18 (86,3) [made men] In the same sense us in the _Tempest, any
monster in England_ makes _a man_.

V.i.2-22 (88,4)

[More strange than true.  I never may believe
These antique fables, nor these fairy toys]

These beautiful lines are in all the old editions thrown out of
metre. They are very well restored by the later editors.

V.i.26 (89,5) [constancy] Consistency; stability; certainty.

V.i.79 (92,4) [Unless you can find sport in their intents] Thus all the
copies.  But as I know not what it is to _stretch_ and _con_ an _intent_,
I suspect a line to be lost.

V.i.91 (92,5)

[And what poor duty cannot do,
Noble respect takes it in might, not merit.]

The sense of this passage, as it now stands, if it has any sense,
is this: _What the inability of duty cannot perform, regardful
generosity receives as an act of ability, though not of merit._
The contrary is rather true: _What dutifulness tries to perform
without ability, regardful generosity receives as having the merit,
though not the power, of complete performance._

We should therefore read,

_And what poor duty cannot do,
Noble respect takes not in might, but merit._


V.i.147 (95,4) [Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade] Mr.
Upton rightly observes, that Shakespeare in this line ridicules
the affectation of beginning many words with the same letter.  He
night have remarked the same of

_The raging rocks
and shivering shocks._

Gascoigne, contemporary with our poet, remarks and blames the
same affectation.

V.i.199 (97,6) [And like Limander am I trusty still] Limander and
Helen, are spoken by the blundering player, for Leander and Hero.
Shafalus and Procrus, for Cephalus and Procris.

V.i.254 (99,1) [in snuff] An equivocation.  _Snuff_ signifies both the
cinder of a caudle, and hasty anger.

V.i.379 (104,2) [And the wolf beholds the moon] [W: behowls] The
alteration is better than the original reading; but perhaps the
author meant only to say, that the wolf _gazes at_ the moon, (see 1765,
I,173,2)

V.i.396 (105,4)

[I am sent, with broom, before,
To sweep the dust behind the door]

Cleanliness is always necessary to invite the residence and the
favour of Fairies.

_These make our girls their slutt'ry rue,
By pinching them both black and blue.
And put a penny in their shoe
The house for cleanly sweeping._ Drayton.

V.i.398 (105,5) [Through this house give glimmering light] Milton
perhaps had this picture in his thought:

_Glowing cabers through the room
Teach light to counterfeit a gloom._   Il Penseroso.

So Drayton:

_Hence shadows seeming idle shapes
Of little frisking elves and apes,
To earth do make their wanton 'scapes
As hope of pastime hastes them._

I think it should be read,

_Through this house_ in _glimmering light_.

V.i.408 (106,6) [Now, until the break of day] This speech, which
both the old quartos give to Oberon, is in the edition of 1623,
and in all the following, printed as the song.  I have restored
it to Oberon, as it apparently contains not the blessing which
he intends to bestow on the bed, but his declaration that he
will bless it, and his orders to the fairies how to perform the
necessary rites. But where then is the song?--I am afraid it is
gone after many other things of greater value. The truth is that
two songs are lost.  The series of the scene is this; after the
speech of Puck, Oberon enters, and calls his fairies to a song,
which song is apparently wanting in all the copies. Next Titania
leads another song, which is indeed lost like the former, tho'
the editors have endeavoured to find it. Then Oberon dismisses
his fairies to the dispatch of the ceremonies.

The songs, I suppose, were lost, because they were not inserted
in the players parts, from which the drama was printed.

V.i.440 (107,8) [Now to 'scape the serpent's tongue] That is, If we
be dismiss'd without hisses.

V.i.444 (107,9) [Give me your hands] That is, Clap your hands. Give
us your applause.

(107,8) General Observation. Of this play there are two editions in
quarto; one printed for Thomas Fisher, the other for James Roberts,
both in 1600.  I have used the copy of Roberts, very carefully collated,
as it seems, with that of Fisher. Neither of the editions
approach to exactness. Fisher is sometimes preferable, but Roberts
was followed, though not without some variations, by Hemings and
Condel, and they by all the folios that succeeded them.

Wild and fantastical as this play is, all the parts in their
various modes are well written, and give the kind of pleasure which
the author designed. Fairies in his time were much in fashion;
common tradition had made them familiar, and Spenser's poem had
made them great.




THE MERCHANT OF VENICE

I.i.9 (112,2) [Argosies] [a ship from Argo. Pope.] Whether it be derived
from Argo I am in doubt.  It was a name given in our author's
time to ships of great burthen, probably galleons, such as the
Spaniards now use in their East India trade. [An Argosie meant originally
a ship from Ragusa, a city and territory on the gulph of
Venice, tributary to the Porte. Steevens.]

I.i.18 (112,3) [Plucking the grass, to know where sits the wind] By
holding up the grass, or any light body that will bend by a gentle
blast, the direction of the wind is found.

_This way I used in shooting.  Betwixt the markes was an open
place, there I take a fethere, or a_ lytle grasse, _and so learned_

_how the wind stood_.  Ascham.

I.i.27 (113,5) [And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand] The name of
the ship.

I.i.113 (116,3) [Is that any thing now?] All the old copies read, _is
that any thing now_?  I suppose we should read, _is that any thing_
new?

I.i.146 (117,4) [like a wilful youth] [W: witless] Dr. Warburton confounds
the time past and present.  He has formerly lost his money
like a _wilful_ youth, he now borrows more in _pure innocence_, without
disguising his former fault, or his present designs.

I.ii.44 (120,6) [Ay, that's a colt, indeed] _Colt_ is used for a witless,
heady, gay youngster, whence the phrase used of an old man
too juvenile, that he still retains his _colt's tooth_. See Hen. VIII.

I.ii.49 (120,7) [there is the Count Palatine] I am always inclined to
believe, that Shakespeare has more allusions to particular facts
and persons than his readers commonly suppose.  The count here mentioned
was, perhaps, Albertus a Lasco, a Polish Palatine, who visited
England in our author's time, was eagerly caressed, and splendidly
entertained; but running in debt, at last stole away, and endeavoured to
repair his fortune by enchantment.

I.ii.90 (122,3) [How like you the young German] In Shakespeare's time
the duke of Bavaria visited London, and was made knight of the garter.

Perhaps in this enumeration of Portia's suitors, there may be
some covert allusion to those of Queen Elizabeth.

I.iii.47 (125,4) [catch him once upon the hip] A phrase taken from the
practice of wrestlers.

I.iii.63 (126,5) [the ripe wants of my friend] _Ripe wants_ are wants
_come to the height_, wants that can have no longer delay.  Perhaps
we might read, _rife wants_, wants that come thick upon him.

I.iii.100 (127,6)

  [ An evil soul, producing holy witness,
  Is like a villain with a smiling cheek;
  A goodly apple rotten at the heart.
  O, what a goodly outside falshood hath?]

I wish any copy would give the authority to range and read the
lines thus:

  _O, what a_ godly _outside falshood hath!
  An evil soul producing holy witness,
  Is like a villain with a sailing cheek;
  Or goodly apply rotten at the heart._

Yet there is no difficulty in the present reading. _Falsehood_,
which as _truth_ means _honesty_, is taken here for _treachery_ and
_knavery_, does not stand for _falshood_ in general, but for the dishonesty
now operating. (1773)

I.iii.156 (129,8) [dwell in my necessity] To _dwell_ seems in this
place to mean the same as to _continue_. To _abide_ has both the
senses of _habitation_ and _continuance_.

I.iii.176 (130,9) [left in the fearful guard] [W: fearless] Dr. Warburton
has forgotten that _fearful_ is not only that which fears,
but that which is feared or causes fear. _Fearful guard_, is a
guard that is not to be trusted, but gives cause of fear. To _fear_
was anciently to _give_ as well as _feel terrours_. (see 1765, I,402,4)

I.iii.180 (130,1) [I like not fair terms] Kind words, good language.

II.i.7 (131,2) [To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine] To
understand how the tawney prince, whose savage dignity is very well
supported, means to recommend himself by this challenge, it must
be remembered that _red_ blood is a traditionary sign of courage:
Thus Macbeth calls one of his frighted soldiers, a _lilly liver'd_
Lown; again in this play, Cowards are said to _have livers as white
as milk_; and an effeminate and timorous man is termed a _milksop._

II.i.18 (132,4) [And hedg'd me by his will] I suppose we may safely
read, _and hedg'd me by his_ will. Confined me by his will.

II.i.25 (132,5) [That slew the Sophy] Shakespeare seldom escapes well
when he is entangled with geography. The prince of Morocco must
have travelled far to kill the Sophy of Persia.

II.i.42 (133,7) [Therefore be advis'd] Therefore be not precipitant;
consider well what we are to do. _Advis'd_ is the word opposite to
_rash_.

II.ii.38 (134,8) [try conclusions]--So the old quarto. The first
folio, by a mere blunder, reads, try _confusions_, which, because it
makes a kind of paltry jest, has been copied by all the editors.

II.ii.91 (136,1) [your child that shall be] The distinction between
_boy_ and _son_ is obvious, but child seems to have some meaning,
which is now lost.

II.ii.166 (138,3) [Well, if any man in Italy have a fairer table,
which doth suffer to swear upon a book] Mr. Theobald's note is as
obscure as the passage. It may be read more than once before the
complication of ignorance can be completely disentangled. Table
is the palm expanded. What Mr. Theobald conceives it to be cannot
easily be discovered, but he thinks it somewhat that promises
a full belly.

Dr. Warburton understood the word, but puzzles himself with no
great success in the pursuit of the meaning. The whole matter is
this: Launcelot congratulates himself upon his dexterity and good
fortune, and, in the height of his rapture, inspects his hand, and
congratulates himself upon the felicities in his table. The act
of expounding his hand puts him in mind of the action in which the
palm is shewn, by raising it to lay it on the book, in judicial
attestations. _Well_, says he, _if any man in Italy have a fairer
table, that doth offer to swear upon a book_----Here he stops with
an abruptness very common, and proceeds to particulars.

II.ii.194 (140,5) [Something too liberal] Liberal I have already
shewn to be mean, gross, coarse, licentious.

II.ii.205 (141,9) [sad ostent] Grave appearance; shew of staid and
serious behaviour.

II.vi.5 (146,1) [O, ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly] [W: widgeons]
I believe the poet wrote as the editors have printed. How it is
so very _high humour_ to call lovers _widgeons_ rather than pigeons. I
cannot find. Lovers have in poetry been alway called _Turtles_, or
_Doves_, which in lower language may be pigeons.

II.vi.51 (148,3) [a Gentile, and no Jew] A jest rising from the
ambiguity of _Gentile_, which signifies both a _Heathen_, and _one well
born._

II.vii.8 (149,4) [This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt]
That is, as gross as the dull metal.

II.vii.69 (151,5) [_Gilded tombs do worms infold_] In all the old
editions this line is written thus:

_Gilded timber do worms infold._

From which Mr. Rowe and all the following editors have made

_Gilded wood may worms infold._

A line not bad in itself, but not so applicable to the occasion as
that which, I believe, Shakespeare wrote,

_Gilded_ tombs _do worms infold_.

A tomb is the proper repository of a _death's-head_.

II.vii.72 (151,6) [Your answer had not been inscrol'd] Since there is
an answer inscrol'd or written in every casket, I believe for _your_
we should read _this_.  When the words were written y'r and y's, the
mistake was easy.

II.vii.79 (151,7) [chuse ce so] The old quarto edition of 1600 has no
distribution of acts, but proceeds from the beginning to the end
in an unbroken tenour. This play therefore having been probably
divided without authority by the publishers of the first folio,
lies open to a new regulation, if any more commodious division can
be proposed. The story is itself so wildly incredible, and the
changes of the scene so frequent and capricious, that the probability
of action does not deserve much care; yet it may be proper to
observe, that, by concluding the second act here, time is given for
Bassanio's passage to Belmont.

II.viii.42 (153,8) [_Let it not enter in your mind of love_] So all the
copies, but I suspect some corruption.

II.viii.52 (153,9) [embraced heaviness] [W: enraced] Of Dr. Warburton's
correction it is only necessary to observe, that it has produced
a new word, which cannot be received without necessity.

When I thought the passage corrupted, it seemed to me not improbable that
Shakespeare had written _entranced heaviness_, musing, abstracted,
moping melancholy. But I know not why any great efforts
should be made to change a word which has no uncommodious or unusual
sense. We say of a man now, _that he_ hugs _his sorrows_, and
why might not Anthonio _embrace heaviness_.

II.ix.46 (155,2) [How much low peasantry would then be gleaned From
the true seed of honour?] The meaning is, _How much meanness would
be found among the great, and how much greatness among the mean_.
But since men are always said to _glean_ corn though they may _pick_
chaff, the sentence had been more agreeable to the common manner
of speech if it had been written thus,

  _How much low peasantry would then be pick'd
  From the true seed of_honour? how much honour
  Glean'd from the chaff?_

II.ix.70 (157,4) [_Take what wife you will to-bed_] Perhaps the poet
had forgotten that he who missed Portia was never to marry any
woman.

III.i.47 (160,7) [a bankrupt, a prodigal] There is no need of
alteration. There could be, in Shylock's opinion, no prodigality
more culpable than such liberality as that by which a man exposes
himself to ruin for his friend.

III.ii.21 (163,9) [And so though yours, not yours.--Prove it so] It
may be more grammatically read,

  _And so though yours_ I'm _not yours._

III.ii.54 (165,2) [With no less presence] With the same _dignity of
mien_.

III.ii.73 (166,5) [So may the outward shows] He begins abruptly, the
first part of the argument has passed in his mind.

III.ii.76 (166,6) [gracious voice] Pleasing; winning favour.

III.ii.112 (167,9) [In measure rain thy joy] The first quarto edition
reads,

  _In measure_ range _thy joy_.

The folio and one of the quartos,

  _In measure_ raine _thy joy_.

I once believ'd Shakespeare meant,

_In measure_ rein _thy joy_.

The words _rain_ and _rein_ were not in these times distinguished by
regular orthography. There is no difficulty in the present reading,
only where the copies vary some suspicion of error is always
raised, (see 1765, I,437,1)

III.ii.125 (168,1) [Methinks, it should have power to steal both his,
And leave itself unfurnish'd] I know not how _unfinish'd_ has intruded
without notice into the later editions, as the quartos and folio
have _unfurnished_, which Sir Tho. Banner has received. Perhaps it

might be

  _And leave_ himself _unfurnish'd_.

III.ii.191 (170,4) [you can wish none from me] That is, none _away
from_ me; none that I shall lose, if you gain it.

III.v.70 (182,5) [how his words are suited!] I believe the meaning
is: What a _series_ or _suite_ of _words_ he has independent of meaning;
how one word draws on another without relation to the matter.

IV,i.21 (184,6) [apparent] That is, _seeming_; not real.

IV.i.22 (184,7) [_where_] for _whereas_.

IV.i.29 (184,8) [Enough to press a royal merchant down] This epithet
was in our poet's time more striking and better understood, because
Gresham was then commonly dignified with the title of the
_royal merchant_.

IV.i.42 (185,1) [I'll not answer that; But, say, it is my humour]
[Cf: By saying] Dr. Warburton has mistaken the sense.  The Jew being
asked a question which the law does not require him to answer,
stands upon his right, and refuses; but afterwards gratifies his
own malignity by such answers as he knows will aggravate the pain
of the enquirer.  I will not answer, says he, as to a legal or
serious question, but since you want an answer, will this serve
you?

IV.i.56 (187,4)
      [For affection,
  Masters of passion, sway it to the mood
  Of what it likes, or loaths]

As for _affection_, those that know how to operate upon the passions
of men, rule it by making it operate in obedience to the notes
which please or disgust it. (1773)

[Woollen bag pipe] As all the editors agree with complete uniformity
in this reading, I can hardly forbear to imagine that they
understood it. But I never saw a _woollen bag-pipe_, nor can well
conceive it.  I suppose the authour wrote _wooden_ bag-pipe, meaning
that the bag was of leather, and the pipe of _wood_.

IV.i.90 (189,5) [many a purchas'd slave] This argument considered as
used to the particular persons, seems conclusive.  I see not how
Venetians or Englishmen, while they practise the purchase and
sale of slaves, can much enforce or demand the law of _doing to
others as we would that they should do to us_.

IV.i.105 (189,6) [Bellario, a learned doctor, Whom I have sent for]
The doctor and the court are here somewhat unskilfully brought
together. That the duke would, on such an occasion, consult a
doctor of great reputation, is not unlikely, but how should this
be forknown by Portia?

IV.i.214 (193,8) [malice bears down truth] Malice oppresses honesty,
a _true man_ in old language is an _honest man_.  We now call the

jury _good men and true._

IV.i.382 (198,8) [I am content] The terms proposed have been misunderstood.
Antonio declares, that as the duke quits one half of
the forfeiture, he is likewise content to abate his claim, and
desires not the property but the _use_ or produce only of the
half, and that only for the Jew's life, unless we read, as perhaps
is right, _upon_ my _death._

V.i.63 (204,3) [Such harmony is in immortal souls] [W: sounds] This
passage is obscure.  _Immortal sounds_ is a harsh combination of
words, yet Milton uses a parallel expression:

    _Spiritus & rapidos qui circinat igneus orbes,
    Nunc quoque sidereis intercinit ipse choreia_
    Immortale melos, _& inenarrabile curmen._

It is proper to exhibit the lines as they stand in the copies
of the first, second, third, and fourth editions, without any
variation, for a change has been silently made, by Rowe, and
adopted by all the succeeding editors.

    _Such harmony is in immortal souls,
    But while this muddy vesture of decay
    Doth grosly close_ in it, _we cannot hear it._

That the third is corrupt must be allowed, but it gives reason
to suspect that the original was,

    _Doth grosly close_ it in.

Yet I know not whether from this any thing better can be produced
than the received reading. Perhaps _harmony_ is _the power
of perceiving harmony_, as afterwards, _Musick in the soul_ is the
quality of being _moved with concord of sweet sounds_. This will
somewhat explain the old copies, but the sentence is still imperfect;
which might be completed by reading,

    _Such harmony is in_ th' _immortal_ soul,
    _But while this muddy vesture of decay
    Doth grosly close_ it in, _we cannot hear it._   (1773)

V.i.66 (205,4) [wake Diana with a hymn] Diana is the moon, who is
in the next scene represented as sleeping.

V.i.99 (207,6) [Nothing is good, I see, without respect] Not absolutely
good, but relatively, good as it is modified by circumstances.

V.i.129 (208,7) [Let me give light] There is scarcely any word with
which Shakespeare delights to trifle as with _light_, in its various
significations.

V.i.203 (210,2)

                  [What man is there so much unreasonable,
                   If you had pleas'd to have defended it
                   With any terms of zeal, wanted the modesty
                   To urge the thing held as a ceremony?]

This is a very licentious expression. The sense is, _What man
could have so little modesty_ or _wanted modesty so much_, as to
urge the demand of a thing kept on an account in some sort
religious. (see 1785, 1,476,7)

V.i.249 (212,4) [I once did lend my body for his wealth]
For his advantage; to obtain his happiness.  _Wealth_ was,
at that time, the term opposite to _adversity_, or _calamity_.

V.i.294 (213,5) [_Lor_. Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way Of
starved people] [Shakespeare is not more exact in any thing, than
in adapting his images with propriety to his speakers; of which
he has here given an instance in making the young Jewess call
good fortune, _manna_. Warburton.] The commentator should have remarked,
that this speech is not, even in his own edition, the
speech of the Jewess.

V.i.307 (214,6) [_Exeunt omnes_] It has been lately discovered, that
this fable is taken from a story in the Pecorope of Ser Giovauni
Fiorentino, a novellist, who wrote in 1378. The story has been
published in English, and I have epitomised the translation.
The translator is of opinion, that the choice of the caskets is
borrowed from a tale of Boccace, which I have likewise abridged,
though I believe that Shakespeare must have had some other novel
in view.

(223) General Observation. Of The MERCHANT of VENICE the stile is
even and easy, with few peculiarities of diction, or anomalies
of construction. The comick part raises laughter, and the serious
fixes expectation.  The probability of either one or the other
story cannot be maintained.  The union of two actions in one
event is in this drama eminently happy. Dryden was much pleased
with his own address in connecting the two plots of his Spanish
Friar, which yet, I believe, the critick will find excelled by
this play.




AS YOU LIKE IT

I.i.3 (229,2) [As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
bequeathed me. By will, but a poor thousand crowns] There is, in my
opinion, nothing but a point misplaced, and an omission of a word
which every hearer can supply, and which therefore an abrupt and eager
dialogue naturally excludes.

I read thus: _As I remember, Adam, it was on this fashion bequeathed
me. By will but a poor thousand crowns; and, as thou
sayest, charged my brother on his blessing to breed me well._
What is there in this difficult or obscure? The nominative _my
father_ is certainly left out, but so left out that the auditor
inserts it, in spite of himself.

I.i.9 (230,3) [stays me here at home, unkept] [W: Stys] _Sties_ is
better than _stays_, and more likely to be Shakespeare's.

I.i.19 (230,4) [his countenance seems to take from me]
[W: discountenance] There is no need of change, a countenance is
either good or bad.

I.i.33 (231,5) [be better employ'd, and be nought a while] Warburton
explained ["be nought a while" as "a mischief on you"] If _be
nought a while_ has the signification here given it, the reading
may certainly stand; but till I learned its meaning from this
note, I read,

  _Be better employed, and be_ naught a while.

In the same sense as we say, _it is better to do mischief, than to
do nothing_.

I.i.59 (233,7) [I am no villain] The word _villain_ is used by the
elder brother, in its present meaning, for a _worthless, wicked_,
or _bloody man_; by Orlando in its original signification, for a
_fellow of base extraction_.


I.ii.34 (237,9) [mock the good housewife Fortune from her wheel]
The wheel of Fortune is not the _wheel_ of a _housewife_. Shakespeare
has confounded Fortune, whose wheel only figures uncertainty and
vicissitude, with the Destiny that spins the thread of life,
though indeed not with a wheel.

I.ii.87 (239,1)

  [_Clo_. One, that old Frederick your father loves.
  _Cel_. My father's love is enough to honour him]

[T. invoking the Dramatis Personae: Celia] Mr. Theobald seems not
to know that the Dramatis Personae were first enumerated by Rowe.

I.ii.95 (239,2) [since the little wit that fools have, was silenc'd]
Shakespeare probably alludes to the use of _fools_ or _jesters_, who
for some ages had been allowed in all courts an unbridled liberty
of censure and mockery, and about this time began to be less
tolerated.

I.ii.112 (240,3) [laid on with a trowel] I suppose the meaning is,
that there is too heavy a mass of big words laid upon a slight subject.

I.ii.115 (240,4) [You amaze me, ladies] To _amaze_, here, is not to
astonish or strike with wonder, but to perplex; to confuse; as,
to put out of the intended narrative.

I.ii.131 (241,5) [With bills on their necks:  _Be it known unto all
men by these presents_] This conjecture is ingenious.  Where meaning
is so very thin, as in this vein of jocularity, it is hard to
catch, and therefore I know not well what to determine; but I cannot
see why Rosalind should suppose, that the competitors in a
wrestling match carried _bills_ on their shoulders, and I believe
the whole conceit is in the poor resemblance of _presence_ and _presents_.

I.ii.149 (241,6) [is there any else longs to see this broken musick
in his sides?] [W: set] If any change were necessary, I should
write, _feel this broken musick_, for _see_. But _see_ is the colloquial
term for perception or experiment. So we say every day,
_see_ if the water be hot; I will _see_ which is the best time; she
has tried, and _sees_ that she cannot lift it. In this sense _see_
may be here used. The sufferer can, with no propriety, be said
to _set_ the musick; neither is the allusion to the act of tuning
an instrument, or pricking a tune, one of which must be meant by
_setting_ musick.  Rosalind hints at a whimsical similitude between
the series of ribs gradually shortening, and some musical instruments,
and therefore calls _broken ribs, broken musick_.

I.ii.185 (243,8) [If you saw yourself with your eyes, or knew yourself
with your judgment] [W: our eyes, and our judgment] I cannot
find the absurdity of the present reading.  _If you were not
blinded and intoxicated_, says the princess, _with the spirit of
enterprise, if you could use_ your own eyes to _see_, or your own
judgment to know _yourself, the fear of your adventure would counsel
you_.

I.ii.195 (243,9) [I beseech you, punish me not with your hard thoughts,
wherein I confess me much guilty] I should wish to read, _I beseech
you, punish me not with your hard thoughts_.  Therein _I confess myself
much guilty to deny so fair and excellent ladies any thing._

I.ii.257 (246,1) [one out of suits with Fortune] This seems an allusion
to cards, where he that has no more cards to play of any
particular sort is _out of suit_.

I.ii.275 (247,3) [the Duke's condition] The word _condition_ means
character, temper, disposition.  So Anthonio the merchant of
Venice, is called by his friend the _best conditioned man_.

I.iii.33 (249,5) [you should love his son dearly? By this kind of
chase, I should hate him, for my father hated his father dearly]
That is, by this way of _following_ the argument. _Dear_ is used by
Shakespeare in a double sense, for _beloved_, and for _hurtful_,
_hated_, _baleful_.  Both senses are authorised, and both drawn from
etymology, but properly _beloved_ is _dear_, and _hateful_ is _dere._
Rosalind uses _dearly_ in the good, and Celia in the bad sense.

I.iii.83 (251,6) [And thou wilt show more bright, and seem more virtuous]
[W: shine] The plain meaning of the old and true reading is, that when
she was seen alone, she would be more noted.

I.iii.98 (251,7) [Rosalind lacks then the love Which teacheth thee
that thou and I am one][W: which teacheth me] Either reading may
stand. The sense of the established text is not remote or obscure.
Where would be the absurdity of saying, _You know not the law which
teaches you to do right_.

I.iii.119 (252,9) [curtle-ax]--_curtle-axe_. or _cutlace_. a broad
sword.

II.i.13 (254,3)

  [Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous
  Wears yet a precious jewel in his head]

It was the current opinion in Shakespeare's time, that in the
head of an old toad was to be found a stone, or pearl, to which
great virtues were ascribed. This stone has been often sought,
but nothing has been found more than accidental or perhaps morbid
indurations of the skull.

II.i.18 (254,4) [I would not change it] Mr. Upton, not without
probability, gives these words to the Duke, and makes Amiens begin,
_Happy is your grace_.

II.i.67 (256,6) [to cope him] To encounter him; to engage with him.

II.iii.8 (257,8) [The bony priser] So Milton, _Giants of mighty_ bone.

II.iii.37 (258,9) [diverted blood] Blood turned out of the course of
nature.

II.iii.60 (259,1)

            [promotion;
  And, having that, do choak their service up
  Even with the having]

Even with the _promotion_ gained by service is service extinguished.

II.iv.33 (261,4) [If thou remember'st not the slightest folly] I am
inclined to believe that from this passage Suckling took the hint
of his song.

    _Honest lover, whosoever,
    If in all thy love there ever
  Were one wav'ring thought, thy flame
  Were not even, still the same.
    Know this
    Thou lov'st amiss,
    And to love true
  Thou must begin again and love anew_, &c. (rev. 1778, III,297,4)


II.iv.48 (262,5) [batlet] The instrument with which washers beat
their coarse cloaths.

II.iv.51 (262,6) [two cods] For _cods_ it would be more like sense to
read _peas_, which having the shape of pearls, resembled the common
presents of lovers.

II.iv.55 (262,7) [so is all nature in love, mortal in folly] This
expression I do not well understand. In the middle counties,
_mortal_, from _mort_, a great quantity, is used as a particle of
amplification; as _mortal tall, mortal little_. Of this sense I
believe Shakespeare takes advantage to produce one of his darling
equivocations. Thus the meaning will be, _so is all nature in
love_ abounding _in folly_.

II.iv.87 (263,8) [And in my voice most welcome shall ye be] _In my
voice_, as far as I have a voice or vote, as far as I have power
to bid you welcome.

II.v.56 (265,2) [Duc ad me] For _ducdame_ sir T. Hammer, very acutely
and judiciously, reads _duc ad me_. That is, _bring him to me_.

II.v.63 (266,3) [the first-born of Egypt] A proverbial expression
for high-born persons. (1773)

II.vii.13 (267,4) [A motley fool!--a miserable world.'] [W: miserable
varlet] I see no need of changing _fool_ to _varlet_, nor, if a change
were necessary, can I guess how it should certainly be known that
_varlet_ is the true word. _A miserable world_ is a parenthetical
exclamation, frequent among melancholy men, and natural to Jaques at the
sight of a fool, or at the hearing of reflections on the fragility of
life.

II.vii.44 (268,5) [only suit] _Suit_ means _petition_. I believe, not
_dress_.

II.vii.55 (269,7)

             [If not,
  The wise man's folly is anatomiz'd
  Even by the squandring glances of the fool]

Unless men have the prudence not to appear touched with the sarcasm
of a jester, they subject themselves to his power, and the
wise man will have his folly _anatomised_, that is _dissected_ and
_laid open_ by the _squandring glances_ or _random shots_ of a fool.

II.vii.66 (269,8) [As sensual as the brutish sting] Though the _brutish
sting_ is capable of a sense not inconvenient in this passage, yet
as it is a harsh and unusual mode of speech, I should read the
_brutish sty_.

II.vii.04 (270,9)

                 [The thorny point
  Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the shew
  Of smooth civility]

We might read _torn_ with more elegance, but elegance alone will
not justify alteration.

II.vii.125 (271,1) [And take upon command what help we have] It seems
necessary to read, _then take upon_ demand _what help_, &c. that is,
_ask_ for what we can supply, and have it.

II.vii.156 (272,3) [Full of wise saws and modern instances] I am in
doubt whether _modern_ is in this place used for absurd;  the meaning
seems to be, that the justice is full of _old_ sayings and _late_
examples.

II.vii.167 (273,5) [Set down your venerable burden] Is it not likely
that Shakespeare had in his mind this line of the Metamorphoses?

             --_Patremque
  Fert humeris_, venerabile onus _Cythereius heros_.


II.vii.177 (274,5)

                   [Thy tooth is not so keen,
                   Because thou art not seen]

[W: art not sheen] I am afraid that no reader is satisfied with
Dr. Warburton's emendation, however vigorously enforced; and it
is indeed enforced with more art than truth.  _Sheen_, i.e. _smiling,
shining_.  That _sheen_ signifies _shining_, is easily proved, but when
or where did it signify _smiling_? yet _smiling_ gives the sense
necessary in this place. Sir T. Banner's change is less uncouth,
but too remote from the present text. For my part, I question
whether the original line is not lost, and this substituted merely
to fill up the measures and the rhyme. Yet even out of this
line, by strong agitation may sense be elicited, and sense not
unsuitable to the occasion. _Thou winter wind_, says the Duke, _thy
rudeness gives the less pain_, as thou art not seen, _as thou art
an enemy that dost not brave us with thy presence, and whose unkindness
is therefore not aggravated by insult_.

II.vii.187 (275,6) [Tho' thou the waters warp] To _warp_ was probably,
in Shakespeare's time, a colloquial word, which conveyed no distant
allusion to any thing else, physical or medicinal. To warp
is to _turn_, and to _turn_ is to _change_; when milk is _changed_ by
curdling, we now say, it is _turned_; when water is _changed_ or
_turned_ by frost, Shakespeare says, it is _curdled_. To be _warp'd_
is only to be changed from its natural state. (1773)

III.i.3 (276,7) [an absent argument] An _argument_ is used for the
_contents_ of a book, thence Shakespeare considered it as meaning
the _subject_, and then used it for _subject_ in yet another sense.

III.i.18 (277,8) [Do this expediently] That is, _expeditiously_.

III.ii.2 (277,9) [thrice-crowned queen of night] Alluding to the triple
character of Proserpine, Cynthia, and Diana, given by some
mythologists to the same Goddess, and comprised in these memorial
lines:

_Terret, lustrat, agit, Proserpina, Luna, Diana,
Ima, superna, feras, sceptro, fuljore, sagittis._

III.ii.10 (277,1) [unexpressive] for _inexpressible_.

III.ii.31 (278,2) [complain of good breeding] I am in doubt whether
the custom of the language in Shakespeare's time did not authorise
this mode of speech, and make _complain of good breeding_ the same
with _complain_ of the want of _good_ breeding. In the last line of
the Merchant of Venice we find that to _fear the keeping_ is to _fear
the_ not _keeping_.

III.ii.39 (279,5) [Truly, then art damn'd, like an ill-roasted egg,
all on one side] Of this jest I do not fully comprehend the meaning.

III.ii.85 (281,1) [bawd to a bell-wether] _Wether_ and _ram_ had anciently
the same meaning.

III.ii.135 (282,1)

      [Tongues I'll hang on every tree,
      That shall civil sayings show]

_Civil_ is here used in the same sense as when we say _civil_ wisdom
or _civil life_, in opposition to a solitary state, or to the state
of nature. This desert shall not appear _unpeopled_, for every tree
shall teach the maxims or incidents of social life.

III.ii.149 (283,2) [Therefore heaven nature charg'd] From the picture
of Apelles, or the accomplishments of Pandora.

  [Greek: Aeanertu, oti pautei dlumpia
  Dorou xdorau.-----------]

So before,
 -------------------_But thou
  So perfect, and no peerless art created
  Of ev'ry creature's beat._      Tempest.

Perhaps from this passage Swift had his hint of Biddy Floyd.

III.ii.155 (283,3) [Atalanta's better part] I know not well what
could be the better part of Atalanta here ascribed to Rosalind.
Of the Atalanta most celebrated, and who therefore must be intended
here where she has no epithet of discrimination, the better
part seems to have been her heels, and the worse part was so bad
that Rosalind would not thank her lover for the comparison. There
is a more obscure Atalanta, a huntress and a heroine, but of her
nothing bad is recorded, and therefore I know not which was the
better part.  Shakespeare was no despicable mythologist, yet he
seems here to have mistaken some other character for that of Atalanta.

III.ii.156 (283,4) [Sad] is _grave, sober_, not _light_.

III.ii.160 (284,5) [the touches] The features; _les traits._

III.ii.186 (284,6) [I was never so be-rhimed since Pythagoras's time,
that I was an Irish rat] Rosalind is a very learned lady.  She
alludes to the Pythagorean doctrine, which teaches that souls
transmigrate from one animal to another, and relates that in his
time she was an Irish _rat_, and by some metrical charm was rhymed
to death.  The power of killing rats with rhymes Donne mentions in
his Satires, and Temple in his Treatises.  Dr. Gray has produced a
similar passage from Randolph.

                   --_My poets
    Shall with a saytire steeped in vinegar
    Rhyme then to death as they do rats in Ireland._

III.ii.206 (285,8) [One inch of delay more is a South-sea of discovery]
This sentence is rightly noted by the commentator [W] as nonsense,
but not so happily restored to sense.  I read thus:

_One inch of delay more is a South-sea_. Discover, _I pr'ythee;
tell me who is it quickly;_--When the transcriber had once made
_discovery_ from _discover, I_, he easily put an article after
South-sea.

But it may be read with still less change, and with equal
probability. _Every inch of delay more is a_ South-sea discovery:
_Every delay_, however short, is to me tedious and irksome as the
longest voyage, as a voyage of _discovery_ on the _South-sea_.  How
such voyages to the South-sea, on which the English had then first
ventured, engaged the conversation of that time, may be easily
imagined.

III.ii.238 (287,9) [Garagantna's mouth] Rosalind requires nine questions
to be answered in _one word_. Celia tells her that a word of
such magnitude is too big for any mouth but that of Garagantua the
giant of Rabelais.

III.ii.290 (288,2) [but I answer you right painted cloth] Sir T.
Hammer reads, _I answer you right_, in the stile of the _painted
cloth. Something seems wanting, and I know not what can be proposed
better. _I answer you right painted cloth_, may mean, I
give you a true painted cloth answer; as we say, she talks _right
Billingsgate_; that is, exactly such language as is used at
Billingsgate. (1773)

III.ii.363 (291,3) [in-land man] Is used in this play for one
_civilised_, in opposition to the _rustick_ of the priest. So Orlando
before--_Yet am I_ in-land _bred_, _and know some nurture._

III.ii.393 (291,4) [an unquestionable spirit] That is, a spirit not
_inquisitive_, a mind indifferent to common objects, and negligent
of common occurrences. Here Shakespeare has used a passive for
an active mode of speech;  so in a former scene, _The Duke is too_
disputable _for me_, that is, too _disputatious_.

III.ii.439 (293,5) [to a living humour of madness] If this be the
true reading we must by _living_ understand _lasting_, or _permanent_,
but I cannot forbear to think that some antithesis was intended
which is now lost; perhaps the passage stood thus, _I drove my
suitor from a_ dying _humour of love to a living humour of madness_.
Or rather thus, _from a mad humour of love to a_ loving _humour of
madness_, that is, from a _madness_ that was _love_, to a _love_ that
was _madness_.  This seems somewhat harsh and strained, but such
modes of speech are not unusual in our poet; and this harshness
was probably the cause of the corruption.

III.iii.21 (294,7) [and what they swear in poetry, may be said, as
lovers, they do feign] This sentence seems perplexed and inconsequent,
perhaps it were better read thus, _What they swear as
lovers they may be said to feign as poets_.

III.iii.32 (295,8) [A material fool!] A fool with _matter_ in bin; a
fool stocked with notions.

III.iii.51 (295,1) [what tho?] What then.

III.iii.65 (296,2) [Sir Oliver] He that has taken his first degree
at the university, is in the academical style called _Dominus_,
and in common language was heretofore termed _Sir_.  This was not
always a word of contempt; the graduates assumed it in their
own writings; so Trevisa the historian writes himself _Syr_ John
de Trevisa.

III.iii.101 (297,4) [Not, O sweet Oliver] Of this speech, as it
now appears, I can make nothing, and think nothing can be made.
In the same breath he calls his mistress to be married, and
sends away the man that should marry them. Dr. Warburton has
very happily observed, that _O sweet Oliver_ is a quotation from
an old song; I believe there are two quotations put in opposition
to each other. For _wind_ I read _wend,_ the old word for _go._ Perhaps
the whole passage may be regulated thus,

Clo. _I am not in the mind. but it were better for me to be
married of him than of another, for he is not like to marry me
well, and not being well married, it will be a good excuse for
me hereafter to leave my wife--Come, sweet Audrey, we must be
married, or we must live in bawdry._

Jaq. _Go then with me, and let me counsel thee._ [they whisper.]

Clo. _Farewel, good sir Oliver, not _O sweet Oliver, O brave
Oliver, leave Be not behind thee,--_but_

  _Wend away
  Begone, I say,
  I will not to wedding with thee to-day._

Of this conjecture the reader may take as much as shall appear
necessary to the sense, or conducive to the humour.  I have received
all but the additional words.  The song seems to be complete
without them. (1773)

III.iv.11 (298, 5) [I' faith, his hair is of a good colour] There is
much of nature in this petty perverseness of Rosalind; she finds
faults in her lover, in hope to be contradicted, and when Celia
in sportive malice too readily seconds her accusations, she contradicts
herself rather than suffer her favourite to want a vindication.

III.v.5 (301, 1) [Will you sterner be Than he that dies and lives by
bloody drops?] [W: deals and lives] [Hammer: lives and thrives]
Either Dr. Warburton's emendation, except that the word _deals,_
wants its proper construction, or that of sir T. Hammer may serve
the purpose; but I believe they have fixed corruption upon the
wrong word, and should rather read,

  _Than he that dies_ his lips by _bloody drops?_

Will you speak with more sternness than the executioner, whose
_lips_ are used to be _sprinkled_ with blood? The mention of _drops_
implies some part that must be sprinkled rather than dipped.

III. v. 23 (303, 2) [The cicatrice and capable impressure] Cicatrice
is here not very properly used; it is the scar of a wound.
_Capable impressure arrows mark._

III. v. 29 (303, 3) [power of fancy] _Fancy_ is here used for _love,_ as
before in Midsummer Night's Dream.

III. v. 35 (304, 4) [Who might be your mother] It is common for the
poets to express cruelty by saying, of those who commit it, that
they were born of rocks, or suckled by tigresses.

III. v. 48 (305, 8) [That can entame ay spirits to your worship]
[W: entraine] The common reading seems unexceptionable.

III. v. 62 (305, 9) [Foal is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer]
[W: being found] The sense of the received reading is not fairly
represented; it is, _The ugly seem most ugly, when,_ though _ugly,
they are scoffers._

III.v.78 (306,2) [Though all the world could see, None could be so
abus'd in sight, as he] Though all mankind could look on you,
none could be so _deceived_ as to think you beautiful but he.

IV.i.37 (309,3) [swam in a gondola] That is, _been at_ Venice, the
sweat at that tine of all licentiousness, where the young English
gentlemen waited their fortunes, debased their morals, and sometimes
lost their religion.

The fashion of travelling, which prevailed very much in our author's
time, was considered by the wiser men as one of the principal
causes of corrupt manners. It was therefore gravely censored
by Aschaa in his Schoolmaster, and by bishop Hall in his Quo Vadis;
and is here, and in other passages, ridiculed by Shakespeare.

IV.i.157 (312,6) [and that when you are inclin'd to sleep] [W: to
weep] I know not why we should read _to weep_. I believe most men
would be more angry to have their _sleep_ hindered than their _grief_
interrupted.

IV.i.168 (313,8) [_Wit, whither wilt_?] This must be some allusion to a
story well known at that time, though not perhaps irretrievable.

IV.i.177 (313,9) [make her fault her husband's occasion] That is,
represent her fault as occasioned by her husband. Sir T. Banner
reads, _her husband's_ accusation.

IV.i.195 (314,1) [I will think you the most pathetical break-promise]
[W: atheistical] I do not see but that _pathetical_ may stand, which
seems to afford as much sense and as much humour as _atheistical_.

IV.ii.14 (315,2) [_Take thou no scorn_] [T: In former editions: _Then
sing him home, the rest shall bear his burden_.  This is an admirable
instance of the sagacity of our preceding editors, to say nothing
worse. One should expect, when they were _poets_, they would at
least have taken care of the _rhimes_, and not foisted in what has
nothing to answer it. Now, where is the rhime to, _the rest shall
bear this burden_? Or, to ask another question, where is the sense
of it? Does the poet mean, that He, that kill'd the deer, shall
be sung home, and the rest shall bear the deer on their backs?
This is laying a burden on the poet, that we mist help him to throw
off. In short, the mystery of the whole is, that a marginal note
is wisely thrust into the text: the song being design'd to be sung
by a single voice, and the stanzas to close with a burden to be
sung by the whole company.] This note I have given as a specimen
of Mr. Theobald's jocularity, and the eloquence with which he
recommends his emendations.

IV.iii (316,4) [_Enter Rosalind and Celia_] The foregoing noisy scene
was introduced only to fill up an interval, which is to represent
two hours. This contraction of the time we might impute to poor
Rosalind's impatience, but that a few minutes after we find Orlando
sending his excuse. I do not see that by any probable division of
the acts this absurdity can be obviated.

IV.iii.48 (318,3) [_That could do no vengeance to me] Vengeance_ is
used for _mischief_.

IV.iii.59 (318,4) [youth and kind] _Kind_ is the old word for _nature_.

IV.iii.101 (319,5) [Within an hour] We must read, _within two hours_.

IV.iii.160 (321,6) [cousin--Ganymed!] Celia in her first fright forgets
Rosalind's character and disguise, and calls out _cousin_, then
recollects herself, and says Ganymed.

V.ii.21 (325,9) [And you, fair sister] I know not why Oliver should
call Rosalind sister. He takes her yet to be a man.  I suppose
we should read, _and you_, and your _fair sister_.

V.ii.45 (326,1) [Clubs cannot part them] Alluding to the way of
parting dogs in wrath.

V.ii.74 (327,2) [human as she is] That is, not a phantom, but the
real Rosalind, without any of the danger generally conceived to
attend the rites of incantation.

V.iii.17 (329,3) [_It was a lover and his lass_] The stanzas of this
song are in all the editions evidently transposed:  as I have regulated
them, that which in the former copies was the second stanza
is now the last.

The same transposition of these stanzas is made by Dr. Thirlby,
in a copy containing some notes on the margin, which I have perused
by the favour of Sir Edward Walpole. (see 1765, II,97,3)

V.iii.36 (330,4) [the note was very untuneable] [T: untimeable] This
emendation is received.  I think very undeservedly, by Dr. Warburton.

V.iv.4 (331,5) [As those that fear, they hope, and know they fear]
[W: their hap, and know their] The deprivation of this line is
evident, but I do not think the learned commentator's emendation
very happy.  I read thus,

_As those that fear_ with _hope, and hope_ with _fear_.

Or thus, with less alteration,

_As those that fear_, they _hope, and_ now _they fear_.

V.iv.36 (332,6) [Here comes a pair of very strange beasts] [W: unclean
beasts] _Strange beasts_ are only what we call _odd_ animals. There is
no need of any alteration.

V.iv.51 (333,7) [found the quarrel was upon the seventh cause] So
all the copies; but it is apparent from the sequel that we must
read, _the quarrel was_ not _upon the seventh cause_.

V.iv.56 (333,8) [I desire you of the like] [W: of you] I have not
admitted the alteration, because there are other examples of
this mode of expression. (1773)

V.iv.59 (333,9) [according as marraige binds, and blood breaks] I
cannot discover what has here puzzled the commentator [W]: _to
swear according as marriage binds_, ii to take the oath enjoin'd
in the ceremonial of marriage.

V.iv.68 (334,1) [dulcet diseases] This I do not understand. For
_diseases_ it is easy to read _discourses_:  but, perhaps the fault
may lie deeper.

V.iv.114 (336,4) [_Enter Hymen_] Rosalind is imagined by the rest of
the company to be brought by enchantment, and is therefore introduced
by a supposed aerial being in the character of Hymen.

V.iv.125 (336,5) [If there be truth in sight] The answer of Phebe
makes it probable that Orlando says, _if there be truth in_ shape:
that is, _if a form may be trusted_; if one cannot usurp the form
of another.

V.iv.136 (337,6) [If truth holds true contents] That is, if there be
_truth in truth_, unless truth fails of veracity.

V.iv.147 (337,7) [_Wedding is great Juno's crown_] Catullus, addressing
himself to Hymen, has this stanza:

Quae tuis careat sacris,
Non queat dare praesides
Terra finibus: at queat
Te volente. Quis huic deo
Compararier ausit?  (1773)

Epilogue.7 (340,5) [What a case am I in then] Here seems to be a chasm,
or some other depravation, which destroys the sentiment here intended.
The reasoning probably stood thus, _Good wine needs no
bush, good plays need no epilogue_, but bad wine requires a good
bush, and a bad play a good epilogue. _What case am I in then_?
To restore the words is impossible; all that can be done without
copies is, to note the fault.

Epilogue.10 (340,1) [furnish'd like a beggar] That is dressed:  so
before, he was _furnished_ like a huntsman.

Epilogue.13 (340,2) [I charge you, O women, for the love you bear to
men, to like as much of this Play as pleases them: and I charge
you, O men, for the love you bear to women----that between you
and the women] [W: pleases them...pleases them] The words _you_ and
_of_ written as was the custom in that time, were in manuscript
scarcely distinguishable. The emendation is very judicious and
probable.

(341,4) General Observation. Of this play the fable is wild and
pleasing.  I know not how the ladies will approve the facility
with which both Rosalind and Celia give away their hearts. To
Celia much may be forgiven for the heroism of her friendship.
The character of Jaqaes is natural and well preferred. The
comick dialogue is very sprightly, with less mixture of low
buffoonery than in some other plays; and the graver part is elegant
and harmonious. By hastening to the end of his work,
Shakespeare suppressed the dialogue between the usurper and the
hermit, and lost an opportunity of exhibiting a moral lesson in
which he might have found matter worthy of his highest powers.




THE TAMING OF THE SHREW

Induction.i.l (346,1) [I'll pheeze you] To _pheeze_ or _fease_. is to
separate a twist into single threads. In the figurative sense it
may well enough be taken, like _teaze_ or _toze_, for to _harrass_. to
_plague_. Perhaps _I'll pheeze you_, may be equivalent to _I'll comb
your head_, a phrase vulgarly used by persons of Sly's character
on like occasions. The following explanation of the word is
given by Sir Tho. Sayth in his book de Sermone Anglico, printed
by Robert Stephens, 4vo. To _feize_. means _in fila diducere_. (see
1765, III,[3],1)

Induction.i.3 (347,2) [no rogues] That is _vagrants_, no mean fellows,
but gentlemen.

Induction.i.17 (348,7) [Brach Merriman, the poor cur is imboat] Sir
T. Banner reads, Leech _Merriman_. that is, apply some remedies to
Merriman, the poor cur has his _joints swelled_. Perhaps we might
read, _bathe_ Merriman, which is I believe the common practice of
huntsmen, but the present reading may stand:

  --_tender well my hounds_:
   Brach--Merriman--_the poor cur is imboat._

Induction.i.64 (351,8) [And when he says he is,--say that he dreams]
[steevens:he's poor,--say] If any thing should be inserted, it may
be done thus,

"And when he says he's _Sly_, say that he dreams."

The likeness in writing of _Sly_ and _say_ produced the omission.(1773)

Induction.i.67 (352,9)

[It will be pastime excellent,
If it be husbanded with modesty]

By _modesty_ is meant _moderation_, without suffering our merriment to
break into an excess.

Induction.i.82 (352,1) [to accept our duty] It was in those times
the custom of players to travel in companies, and offer their service at
great houses.

Induction.i.101 (353,4) [property] in the language of a playhouse,
is every implement necessary to the exhibition.

Induction.i.125 (355,7) [To rain a shower of commanded toars,
An onion will do well for such a shift]

It is not unlikely that the _onion_ was an expedient used by the
actors of interludes.

Induction.ii.89 (359,8) [Leet] As the _Court leet_. or courts of the
manor.

I.i.9 (362,2) [ingenious studies] I rather think it was written
ingenuous studies, but of this and a thousand such observations
there is little certainty.

I.i.18 (363,4) [Virtue, and that part of philosophy Will I apply]
Sir Thomas Hammer, and after him Dr. Warburton, read to virtues
but formerly ply and apply were indifferently used, as to ply or
apply his studies.

I.i.78 (365,7) [A pretty peat!] Peat or pet is a word of endearment
from petit, little, as if it meant pretty little thing.

I.i.85 (365,8) [will you be so strange?] That is, so odd, so different
from others in your conduct.

I.i.97 (366,9) [cunning men] Cunning had not yet lost its original
signification of knowing, learned, as nay be observed in the
translations of the Bible.

I.i.167 (368,2) [Redime te captum quasi queas minimi] Our author had
this line from Lilly, which I mention, that it may not be brought
as an argument of his learning.

I.i.208 (369,3) [port] Pert, is figure, show, appearance.

I.ii.52 (372,5) [Where small experience grows. But, in a few]
Why this should seem nonsense, I cannot perceive. In few words
it means the same as in short.

I.ii.68 (373,6) [As wealth is burthen of my wooing dance] The burthen
of a dance is an expression which I have never heard; the burthen
of his wooing song had been more proper.

I.ii.72 (373,8) [Affection's edge in me] Surely the sense of the
present reading is too obvious to be missed or mistaken. Petruchio
says, that, if a girl has money enough, no bad qualities of mind
or body will remove affection's edge; i.e. hinder him from liking
her.

I.ii.112 (375,1) [an' he begin once, he'll rail--In his rope-tricks]
This is obscure. Sir Thomas Hammer reads, he'll rail in his
rhetorick; I'll tell you, &c. Rhetorick agrees very well with
figure in the succeeding part of the speech, yet I am inclined to
believe that rope-tricks is the true word.

I.ii.115 (375,2) [that she shall have no more eyes to see withal
than a cat] It may mean, that he shall swell up her eyes with
blows, till she shall seem to peep with a contracted pupil like
a cat in the light. (1773)

I.ii.276 (381,9) [Please ye, we may contrive this afternoon] The
word is used in the same sense of spending or wearing out in the
Palace of Pleasure.

II.1.17 (382,2) [You will have Gremio, to keep you fair] I wish to
read, To keep you fine. But either word may serve.

II.i.26 (388,3) [hilding] The word hildlng or hinderling--a low
wretch; it is applied to Catharine for the coarseness of her
behaviour.

II.i.209 (389,7) [Ay, for a turtle; as he takes a buzzard] Perhaps
we may read better, Ay, for a turtle, and he take a  buzzard.
That is, he may take me for a turtle, and he shall find me a hawk.

II.i.310 (393,9) [kill on kiss She vy's so fast] I know not that the
word vie has any construction that will suit this place; we may
easily read,

--kiss on kiss
She ply'd so fast.

II.i.340 (394,1)

[Tra. Grey-beard! thy love doth freeze.
 Ore. But thine doth fry]

Old Gremio's notions are confirmed by Shadwell:

The fire of love in youthful blood.
Like what is kindled in brush-wood.
But for a moment burns--
But when crept into aged reins,
It slowly  burns, and long remains,
It glows, and with a sullen heat.
Like fire in logs, it burns, and warms us long;
And though the flame be not so great,
Yet is the heat as strong.

II.1.407 (397,4) [Yet have I fac'd it with a card of ten] [W. quoted
Jonson for "a hart of ten"] If the word hart be right, I do not
see any use of the latter quotation.

II.1.413 (398,5)[Here the former editors add, Sly. Sim, when will
the fool come again? Steevens.] The character of the fool has not
been introduced in this drama, therefore I believe that the word
again should be omitted, and that Sly asks, When will the fool
come? the fool being the favourite of the vulgar, or, as we now
phrase it, of the upper gallery, was naturally expected in every
interlude.

III.1.37 (400,6) [pantaloon] the old cully in Italian farces.

III.ii.10 (403,1) [full of spleen] That is, full of humour, caprice;
and inconstancy.

III.ii.45 (404,3) [a pair of boots that have been candle--eases; one
buckled, another lac'd; an old rusty sword ta'en out of the
town armory, with a broken hilt, and chapeless, with two broken points]
Bow a sword should have two broken points, I cannot tell. There
is, I think, a transposition caused by the seeming relation of
point to sword. I read, a pair of boots, one buckled, another

_laced_ with two broken points; _an old rusty sword_--_with a broken
hilt, and chapeless_.

III.ii.109 (406,7) [to digress] to deviate from any promise.

IV.i.3 (412,9) [was ever man so ray'd?] That is, was ever man so
mark'd with lashes.

IV.i.93 (416,7) [garters of an indifferent knit] What is the sense
of this I know not, unless it means, that their _garters_ should
be _fellows_; _indifferent_, or _not different_, one from the other.

IV.i.139 (417,8) [no link, to colour Peter's hat] _Link_, I believe,
is the name with what we now call _lamp-black_.

IV.i.145 (418,9) [Soud, soud] That is, _sweet, sweet_. _Soot_, and
sometimes _sooth_, is _sweet_. So in Milton, _to sing soothly_, is,
to sing sweetly.

IV.i.196 (420,3) [to man my haggard] A _haggard_ is a _wild hawk_;
to _man_ a hawk is to _tame_ her.

IV.iii.43 (428,8) [And all my pains is sorted to no proof] And all _my_
labour has ended in nothing, or _proved_ nothing. _We tried an experiment,
but it_ sorted _not. Bacon_.

IV.iii.56 (428,9) [With silken coats, and caps, and golden rings,
With ruffs, and cuffs, and fardingals, and things]
Though _things_ is a poor word, yet I have no better, and perhaps
the authour had not another that would rhyme. I once thought to
transpose the words _rings_ and _things_, but it would make little
improvement.

IV.iii.91 (430,2) [censer] in barber's shops, are now disused, but
they may easily be imagined to have been vessels which, for the
emission of the smoke, were cut with great number and varieties
of interstices.

IV.iii.107 (430,3) [thou thimble] The taylor's trade having an appearance
of effeminacy, has always been, among the rugged English,
liable to sarcasms and contempt.

IV.iii.140 (431,3) [a small compass'd cape] A _compass'd cape_ is a
round cape. To _compass_ is _to come round_. (1773)

IV.iv (434,5) I cannot but think that the direction about the Tinker,
who is always introduced at the end of the acts, together with the
change of the scone, and the proportion of each act to the rest,
make it probable that the fifth act begins here.

IV.iv.48 (436,7) [Where then do you know best,  Be we affied] This
seems to be wrong. We may read more commodiously,
----_Where then_ you do _know best_
_Be we affied_;-----

Or thus, which I think is right,
_Where then do you_ trow _best_,
_We be affied_;------

V.i.70 (443,2) [a copatain hat!] is, I believe, a hat with a conical
crown, such as was anciently worn by well-dressed men.

V.ii.54 (448,5) [A good swift simile] besides the original sense of
_speedy in motion_, signified _witty, quick-witted_.  So in As You
Like It, the Duke says of the Clown, _He is very_ swift _and sententious.
Quick_ is now used in almost the same sense as _nimble_ was
in the age after that of our author. Heylin says of Hales, that
_he had known Laud for a_ nimble, _disputant_.

V.ii.186 (453,7) [tho' you hit the white] To hit the _white_ is a
phrase borrowed from archery: the mark was commonly white. Here
it alludes to the name _Bianca_, or _white_.

(454) General Observation. From this play the Tatler formed a story,
[Johnson here copies out the _Tatler_ story.] It cannot but seen
strange that Shakespeare should be so little known to the author of
the Tatler, that he should suffer this story to be obtruded upon him;
or so little known to the publick, that he could hope to make it pass
upon his readers as a real narrative of a transaction in Lincolnshire;
yet it is apparent, that he was deceived, or intended to deceive, that
he knew not himself whence the story was taken, or hoped that he might
rob so obscure a writer without detection.

Of this play the two plots are so well united, that they can hardly be
called two without injury to the art with which they are interwoven.
The attention is entertained with all the variety of a double plot,
yet is not distracted by unconnected incidents.

The part between Catharine and Petruchio is eminently spritely and
diverting. At the marriage of Bianca the arrival of the real father,
perhaps, produces more perplexity than pleasure.  The whole play is
very popular and diverting, (see 1765, III,97,5)




Vol. IV


ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL

I.i.1 (3,2) [In delivering my son from me] [W: dissevering] Of this
change I see no need: the present reading is clear, and, perhaps,
as proper as that which the great commentator would substitute;
for the king _dissevers_ her son from her, she only _delivers_ him.

I.i.5 (4,3) [to whom I am now in ward] Under his particular care, as
my guardian, till I come to age. It is now almost forgotten in
England that the heirs of great fortunes were the king's _wards_.
Whether the same practice prevailed in France, it is of no great
use to enquire, for Shakespeare gives to all nations the manners
of England.

I. i.19 (4,5) [This young gentlewoman had a father, (O, that _had_!
how sad a passage 'tis!)] [W: presage 'tis] This emendation is
ingenious, perhaps preferable to the present reading, yet since
_passage_ may be fairly enough explained, I have left it in the
text. _Passage_ is _anything that passes_, so we now say, a _passage_
of an _authour_. and we said about a century ago, the _passages_ of a
_reign_. When the _countess_ mentions Helena's loss of a father, she
recollects her own loss of a husband, and stops to observe how
heavily that word _had_ passes through her mind.

I.i.48 (6,6) [for where an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities,
there commendations go with pity, they are virtues and traitors
too; in her they are the better for their simpleness; she derives
her honesty, and atchieves her goodness] [W: her simpleness] This
is likewise a plausible but unnecessary alteration. _Her virtues
are the better for their simpleness_, that is, her excellencies are
the better because they are artless and open, without fraud, without
design. The learned commentator has well explained _virtues_.
but has not, I think, reached the force of the word _traitors_, and
therefore has not shown the full extent of Shakespeare's masterly
observation. _Virtues in an unclean mind are virtues and traitors
too_. Estimable and useful qualities, joined with evil disposition,
give that evil disposition power over others, who, by admiring the
virtue, are betrayed to the malevolence. The _Tatler_ mentioning
the sharpers of his time, observes, that some of them are men of
such elegance and knowledge, that _a young man who falls into their
way is_ betrayed _as much by his judgment as his passions_.

I.i.86 (7,8) [If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess makes
it soon mortal] [W: be not enemy] This emendation I had once admitted
into the text, but restored the old reading, because I
think it capable of an easy explication. _Lafeu_ says, _excessive
grief is the enemy of the living_: the countess replies, _If the
living be an enemy to grief, the excess soon makes it mortal_:
that is, _if the living do not indulge grief, grief destroys itself
by its own excess_. By the word _mortal_ I understand _that which
dies_, and Dr. Warburton, _that which destroys_. I think that my
interpretation gives a sentence more acute and more refined. Let
the reader judge.

I.i.78 (8,9) [That thee may furnish] That may help thee with more
and better qualifications.

I.i.84 (8,1) [The best wishes that can beforg'd in your thoughts, be
servants to you!] That is, may you be mistress of your wishes, and
have power to bring then to effect.

I.i.91 (8,2) [And these great tears grace his remembrance more] The
tears which the king and countess shed for him.

I.i.99 (8,3) [In his bright radiance and collateral light
Must I be comforted, not in his sphere] I cannot be united with him
and move in the same _sphere_, but _must be comforted_ at a distance
by the _radiance_ that shoots _on all sides_ from him.

I.i.107 (9,4) [Of every line and trick of his sweet favour!] So in
King John; _he hath a_ trick _of Coeur de Lion's face. Trick_ seen
to be some peculiarity of look or feature.

I.i.122 (9,6) [you have some stain of soldier in you] [W: _"Stain_ for
colour."] _Stain_ rather for what we now say _tincture_, some
qualities, at least superficial, of a soldier. (1773)

I.i.150 (10,8) [He, that hangs himself, is a virgin] [W: As he...so
is] I believe most readers Will spare both the emendations, which
I do not think much worth a claim or a contest.  The old reading
is more spritely and equally just.

I.i.165 (11,1) [Marry, ill, to like him that ne'er it likes] Parolles,
in answer to the question, _how one shall lose virginity to her own
liking?_ plays upon the word _liking_, and says, _she must do ill, for_
virginity, to be so lost, _must like him that likes not_ virginity.

I.i.178-191 (12,5) [Not my virginity yet] This whole speech is abrupt,
unconnected, and obscure.  Dr. Warburton thinks much of it suppofititious.
I would be glad to think so of the whole, for a commentator
naturally wishes to reject what he cannot understand. Something,
which should connect Helena's words with those of Parolles,
seems to be wanting.  Hammer has made a fair attempt by reading,

     _Not my virginity yet_--You're for the court,
     _There shall your master_, &c.

Some such clause has, I think, dropped out, but still the first
words want connection.  Perhaps Parolles, going away after his
harangue, said, _will you any thing with me_? to which Helen may
reply--I know not what to do with the passage.

I.i.184 (13,7) [a traitress] It seems that traitress was in that age
a term of endearment, for when Lafeu introduces Helena to the king,
he says, _You like a_ traytor, _but such_ traytors _his majesty does
not much fear_.

I.i.199 (14,8) [And shew what we alone must think] And _shew_ by realities
what we now _must only think_.

I.i.218 (14,9) [is a virtue of a good wing, and I like the wear well]
[W: good ming] This conjecture I could wish to see better proved.
This _common_ word _ming_ I have never found.  The first edition of
this play exhibits wing without a capital:  yet, I confess, that
a _virtue of good wing_ is an expression that I cannot understand,
unless by a metaphor taken from falconry, it may mean, _a virtue
that will fly high_, and in the stile of Hotspur, _Pluck honour from
the moon_.

I.i.235 (15,1) [What power is it, which mounts my love so high;
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?]

She means, by what influence is my love directed to a person so
much above me. [why am I made to discern excellence, sad left to
long after it, without the food of hope.]

I.i.237 (15,2)

[The mightiest space in fortune, nature brings
To join like likes, and kiss, like native things.
Impossible be strange attempts, to those
That weigh their pain in sense; and do suppose,
What hath been]

All these four lines are obscure, and, I believe, corrupt. I shall
propose an emendation, which those who can explain the present
reading, are at liberty to reject.

Through _mightiest space in fortune nature brings_
Likes to join likes, _and kiss, like native things._

That is, _nature_ brings _like qualities_ and dispositions _to meet_
through any _distance_ that _fortune_ may have set between them; she
_joins_ them and makes them _kiss like things born together._

The next lines I read with Hammer.

_Impossible be strange attempts to those
That weigh their pains in sense, and do suppose
What_ ha'n't _been, cannot be._

_New_ attempts seen impossible to those who estimate their _labour_ or
_enterprises_ by sense, and believe that nothing can be but what they
see before them.

I.ii.32 (17,3)

[He had the wit, which I can well observe
To-day in our young lords, but they may jest,
Till their own scorn return to them; unnoted,
Ere they can hide their levity in honour]


I believe _honour_ is not _dignity of birth or rank,_ but _acquired
reputation:  Your father_, says the king, _had the same airy flights
of satirical wit-with the young lords of the present time, but they
do not what he did_, hide their unnoted _levity_ in honour, _cover petty
faults with great merit._

This is an excellent observation. Jocose follies, and slight offences,
are only allowed by mankind in him that overpowers them by
great qualities.

I.ii.36 (18,4)

[So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness
Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
His equal had awak'd them]

[W: no contempt or] The original edition reads the first line thus,

_So like a courtier, contempt_ nor _bitterness._

The sense is the same. _Nor_ was used without reduplication. So
in _Measure for Measure,_

_More_ nor _less to others paying,
Than by self-offences weighing._

The old text needs to be explained. He was so like a courtier,
that there was in _his dignity of manner nothing contemptuous,_ and

I.ii.41 (19, 5) [His tongue obey'd his hand] We should read,

  _His tongue obeyed_ the _hand._

That is, the _hand_ of _his honour's clock,_ shewing _the true minute
when exceptions bad him speak._

I.ii.44 (19, 7) [Making then proud of his humility, In their poor
praise he humbled] [W: proud; and his] Every man has seen the
_mean_ too often _proud_ of the _humility_ of the great, and perhaps
the great may sometimes be _humbled in the praises_ of the mean,
of those who commend them without conviction or discernment:
this, however is not so common; the _mean_ are found more frequently
than the _great._

I.ii.50 (19, 8)

[So in approof lives not his epitaph,
As in your royal speech]

[W: _Epitaph_ for character.] I should wish to read,

  _Approof_ so lives not _in his_ epitaph,
  _As in your royal speech._

_Approof_ is _approbation._  If I should allow Dr. _Warburton's_
interpretation of _Epitaph,_ which is more than can be reasonably
expected, I can yet find no sense in the present reading.

I.ii.61 (20, 9) [_whose judgments are meer fathers of their garments_]
Who have no other use of their faculties, than to invent new modes
of dress.

I.iii (21, 1) [_Enter Countess, Steward, and Clown_] A _Clown_ in
Shakespeare is commonly taken for a _licensed jester,_ or domestick
_fool._ We are not to wonder that we find this character often in his
plays, since fools were, at that time, maintained in all great families,
to keep up merriment in the house. In the picture of Sir Thomas More's
family, by Hans Holbein, the only servant represented is Patison the
_fool._ This is a proof of the familiarity to which they were admitted,
not by the great only, but the wise.

In some plays, a servant, or a rustic, of remarkable petulance
and freedom of speech, is likewise called a clown.

I.iii.3 (21, 2) [to even your content] To act up to your desires.

I.iii.45 (23, 4) [You are shallow, madam, in great friends; for the
knaves come to do that for me, which I am a weary of] [Tyrwhitt:
my great] The meaning seems to be, you are not deeply skilled in
the character of offices of great friends. (1773)

I.iii.96 (26, 1) [Clo. That man should be at woman's command, and yet
no hurt done!--Tho' honesty be no puritan, yet it will do no hurt;
it will wear the surplice of humility over the black gown of a
big heart] The clown's answer is obscure. His lady bids him do
as he is _commanded._ He answers with the licentious petulance of
his character, that _if a man does as a woman commands, it is
likely he will do amiss;_ that he does not amiss, being at the
command of a woman, he makes the effect, not of his lady's goodness,
but of his own _honesty,_ which, though not very nice or
_puritanical,_ will _do no hurt;_ and will not only do no hurt, but,
unlike the _puritans_, will comply with the injunctions of superiors,
and wear the _surplice of humility over the black gown of a big
heart_; will obey commands, though not much pleased with a state of
subjection.

Here is an allusion, violently enough forced in, to satirize the
obstinacy with which the _puritans_ refused the use of the ecclesiastical
habits, which was, at that time, one principal cause of the
breach of union, and, perhaps, to insinuate, that the modest purity
of the surplice was sometimes a cover for pride.

I.iii.140 (28,3) [By our remembrances] That is, _according to_ our
recollection. So we say, he is old _by_ my reckoning.

I.iii.169 (29,5)

[--or, were you both our mothers
I care no more for, than I do for heaven.
So I were not his sister]

[W: I can no more fear, than I do fear heav'n.] I do not much yield
to this emendation; yet I have not been able to please myself with
any thing to which even my own partiality can give the preference.

Sir Thomas Banner reads,

    _Or were you both our mothers_.
    I cannot ask for more than that of heaven.
    _So I were not his sister_; can be no other
    Way _I your daughter_, but _he must be my brother_?

I.iii.171 (30,6) [can't no other, But, I your daughter, he must be my
brother?] The meaning is obscur'd by the elliptical diction. Can
_it_ be _no other_ way, but if _I_ be _your daughter he must be my
brother_?

I.iii.178 (30,8) [Your salt tears' head] The force, the fountain of
your tears, the cause of your grief.

I.iii.208 (31,9) [captious and intenible sieve] The word _captious_ I
never found in this sense; yet I cannot tell what to substitute,
unless _carious,_ for _rotten_, which yet is a word more likely to have
been mistaken by the copyers than used by the author.

I.iii.232 (32,2)

[As notes, whose faculties inclusive were
Receipts in which greater _virtues_ were _inclosed]

_Do not throw from you; you, my lord,, farewell;
Share the advice betwixt you; if both_ gain all,
_The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis receiv'd,
And is enough for both._

The first edition, from which the passage is restored, was
sufficiently clear; yet it is plain, that the latter editors preferred
a reading which they did not understand.

II.i.12 (35,8)

             [let higher Italy
(Those 'hated, that inherit but the fall
Of the last monarchy) [see, that you come
Not to woo honour, but to wed it]

[Hammer: Those bastards that inherit] Dr. Warburton's observation is
learned, but rather too subtle; Sir Tho. Hanmer's alteration is merely
arbitrary. The passage is confessedly obscure, and there-fore I may
offer another explanation. I am of opinion that the epithet _higher_ is
to be understood of situation rather than of dignity. The sense may then
be this,_Let upper Italy,_ where you are to exercise your valour, _see
that you come to gain honour, to the_ abatement, _that is, to the
disgrace and depression of those_ that have now lost their ancient
military fame, and _inherit but the fall of the last monarchy_. To
_abate_ is used by Shakespeare in the original sense of _abatre_, to
_depress_, to _sink_, to _deject_, to _subdue_. So in Coriolanus,

--_'till ignorance deliver you.
As moat_ abated _captives to some nation
That won you without blows_.
And bated is used in a kindred sense in the Jew of Venice.

--_in a bondman's key
With _bated_ breath and whisp'ring humbleness_.

The word has still the same meaning in the language of the law.

II.i.21 (37,9) [Beware of being captives, Before you serve] The word
_serve_ is equivocal; the sense is, _Be not captives before _ you serve
in the war. _Be not captives before you are soldiers._

II.i.36 (37,1) [I grow to you, and our parting is a tortur'd body] I
read thus, _Our parting is_ the parting of _a tortured body._ Our parting
is as the disruption of limbs torn from each other. Repetition
of a word is often the cause of mistakes, the eye glances on the
wrong word, and the intermediate part of the sentence is omitted.

II.i.54 (38,3) [they wear themselves in the cap of the time, there,
do muster true gait] [W: to muster] I think this amendation cannot
be said to give much light to the obscurity of the passage. Perhaps it
might be read thus, They do _muster_ with the _true gaite._
that is, they have the true military step. Every man has observed
something peculiar in the strut of a soldier, (rev. 1778, IV,35,8)

II.i.70 (39,4) [across] This word, as has been already observed, is
used when any pass of wit miscarries.

II.i.74 (39,5) [Yes, but you will, my noble grapes, as if] These
words,_my noble grapes_, seem to Dr. Warburton and Sir T. Hammer,
to stand so much in the way, that they have silently omitted them.
They may be indeed rejected without great loss, but I believe they
are Shakespeare's words. _You will eat_, says Lafen, _no grapes.
Yes, but you will eat such noble grapes_ as I bring you, _if you
could reach them._

II.i. 100 (41,8) [I am Cressid's uncle] I am like Pandarus. See Troilus
and Cressida. (see 1765, III,310,2)

II.i.114 (41,9) [wherein the honour Of my dear father's gift stands
chief in power] Perhaps we may better read,--_ wherein the power
Of my dear father's gift stands chief in_ honour,

II.i.144 (42,1) [When miracles have by the greatest been deny'd] I do
not see the import or connection of this line. As the next line
stands without a correspondent rhyme, I suspect that something has
been lost.

II.i.159 (43,2) [Myself against the level of mine aim] I rather think
that she means to say, _I am not an impostor that proclaim_ one thing
and design another, _that proclaim_ a cure and aim at a fraud: I
think what I speak.

II.i.174 (43,3)

              [a divulged shame
Traduc'd by odious ballds; my maiden's name
Sear'd otherwise; no worse of worst extended,
With vilest torture let my life be ended]

This passage is apparently corrupt, and how shall it be rectified?
I have no great hope of success, but something must be tried. I
read the whole thus,

King. _What darest thou venture?_
Hal. _Tax of impudence.
A strumpet's boldness; a divulged shame,
Traduc'd by odious ballads my maiden name;
Sear'd otherwise,_ to worst _of worst extended;
With vilest torture let my life be ended._

When this alteration first came into my mind, I supposed Helen to
mean thus, _First,_ I venture what is dearest to me, my maiden reputation;
but if your distrust _extends_ my character _to the worst of_
the _worst, and supposes me _seared_ against the sense of infamy, I
will add to the stake of reputation, the stake of life. This certainly
is sense, and the language as grammatical as many other passages
of Shakespeare. Yet we may try another experiment.

Fear _otherwise_ to worst of _worst extended;
With vilest torture let my life be ended._
That is, let me act under the greatest terrors possible.

But once again we will try to find the right way by the glimmer
of Hanmer's amendation, who reads thus,

             --_my maiden name
Sear'd; otherwise_ the worst of _worst extended._ etc.

Perhaps it were better thus,

             --_ my maiden name
Sear'd; otherwise_ the worst to _worst extended; _

_With vilest torture let my life be ended._

II.i.182 (45,5) [Thy life is dear; for all, that life can rate Worth name
of life, in thee hath estimate] May be _counted_ among the gifts enjoyed
by them.

II.i.185 (45,7) [prime] Youth; the spring or morning of life.

II.ii.40 (48,1) [To be young again] The lady censures her own levity
in trifling with her jester, as a ridiculous attempt to return
back to youth.

Il.iii.6 (49,3) [unknown fear] _Fear_ is here the object of fear.

II.iii.11 (50,4)

[_Par._ So I say, both of Galen and Paracelsus.
_Laf._ Of all the learned and authentic fellows]

As the whole merriment of this scene consists in the pretensions
of Parollei to knowledge and sentiments which he has not, I believe
here are two passages in which the words and sense are bestowed
upon him by the copies, which the author gave to Lafen.
I read this passage thus,

Laf. _To be relinquished of the artists----_
Par. _So I. say._
Laf. _Both of Galen and Paracelsus, of all the
learned and authentick fellows----_
Par. _Right, so I say.__

II.iii.41 (51,7)

[which should, indeed, give us a farther use to be
made, than alone the recovery of the King; as to be--
_Laf._ Generally thankful]

I cannot see that there is any _hiatus_, or other irregularity of
language than such as is very common in these plays. I believe
Parolles has again usurped words and sense to which he has no
right; and I read this passage thus,

Laf. _In a most weak and debile minister, great
power, great transcendence; which should, indeed,
give us a farther use to be made than the mere
recovery of the king._
Par. _As to be._
Laf. _Generally thankful._

II.iii.66 (52,9) [My mouth no more were broken than these boys']
A broken mouth is a mouth which has lost part of its teeth.

II.iii.77 (53,1) [Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever]
[W: dearth] The white death is the chlorosis.

II.iii.80 (53,2) [And to imperial Love] [W. The old editions read
IMPARTIAL, which is right.] There is no edition of this play older
than that of 1623, the next is that of 1632, of which both read
imperials the second reads imperial Jove.

II.iii.92 (53,3) [Laf. Do they all deny her?] None of them have yet
denied her, or deny her afterwards but Bertram. The scene must be
so regulated that Lafeu and Parolles talk at a distance, where they
nay see what passes between Helena and the lords, but not hear it,
so that they know not by whom the refusal is made.

II.iii.105 (54,4) [There's one grape yet,--I am sure, they father
drunk wine.--But if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth of fourteen.
I have known thee already] This speech the three last editors
have perplexed themselves by dividing between Lafeu and Parolles,
without any authority of copies, or any improvement of sense.
I have restored the old reading, and should have thought no explanation
necessary, but that Mr. Theobald apparently misunderstood it.

Old Lafeu having, upon the supposition that the lady was refused,
reproached the young lords as _boys of ice_, throwing his eyes
on Bertram who remained, cries out, "_There is one yet into whom his
father put good blood,----but I have known thee long enough to know
thee for an ass_."

II.iii.135 (55,6) [good alone Is good, without a name, vileness is so]
[W: good; and with a name,] The present reading is certainly wrong,
and, to confess the truth, I do not think Dr. Warburton's emendation
right; yet I have nothing that I can propose with much confidence.
Of all the conjectures that I can make, that which least
displeases me is this:

                --_good alone.
Is good without a name_; Helen _is so_;

The rest follows easily by this change.

II.iii.138 (56,7)

[--She is young, wise, fair;
In these, to nature she's immediate heir;
And these breed honour]

Here is a long note [W's] which I wish had been shorter.  _Good_ is
better than _young_, as it refers to _honour_. But she is more the
_immediate heir_ of _nature_ with respect to _youth_ than _goodness_. To
be _immediate heir_ is to inherit without any intervening transmitter:
thus she inherits beauty _immediately_ from _nature_, but honour is
transmitted by ancestors; youth is received _immediately_ from _nature_.
but _goodness_ may be conceived in part the gift of parents, or the
effect of education. The alteration therefore loses on one side
what it gains on the other.

II.iii.170 (58,9) [Into the staggers] One species of the _staggers_, or
the _horses apoplexy_, is a raging impatience which makes the animal
dash himself with destructive violence against posts or walls. To
this the allusion, I suppose, is made.

II.iii.185 (59,1)

           [whose ceremony
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
And be perform'd to-night]

This, if it be at all intelligible, is at least obscure and inaccurate.
Perhaps it was written thus,

              --what _ceremony
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief_
Shall _be perform'd to-night; the solemn feast_
_Shall more attend_--

The _brief_ is the _contract of espousal_, or the _licence_
of the church. The King means,  What _ceremony_ is necessary to make
this _contract a marriage_, shall be immediately
_performed_; the rest may be delayed.

II.iii.211 (60,2) [I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a
pretty wise fellow] While I sat twice with thee at table.

II.iii.217 (60,3) [yet art then good for nothing but taking up] To
take up, is to _contradict_, to _call to account_, as well as to _pick
off the ground_.

II.iii.242 (60,4) [in the default] That is, _at a need_.

II.iii.246 (61,5) [for doing, I am past; as I will by thee, in what
motion age will give me leave] [Warburton suspected a line lost
after "past"] This suspicion of chasm is groundless. The conceit
which is so thin that it might well escape a hasty reader, is in
the word _past, I am past, as I will be_ past _by thee_.

II.iii.309 (63,9) [To the dark house] The _dark house_ is a house made
gloomy by discontent. Milton says of _death_ and the _king_ of hell
preparing to combat,

  _So frown'd the mighty combatants, that hell
  Grew_ darker _at their frown_.

II.iv.45 (65,1) [Whose want, and whose delay, is strew'd with sweets]
The _sweets_ with which this _want_ are _strewed_, I suppose, are
compliments and professions of kindness.

II.iv.52 (65,2) [probable need] A specious appearance of necessity.

III.i.10 (70,5) [The reasons of our state I cannot yield] I cannot inform
you of the reasons.

III.i.11 (70,6) [an outward man] [W: i.e. one not in the secret of
affairs] So _inward_ is familiar, admitted to secrets. _I was an_
inward _of his_. Measure for Measure.

III.ii.59 (73,1) [_When thou canst get the ring upon my finger_] [W: When
thou canst get the ring, which is on my finger, into thy possession]
I think Dr. Warburton's explanation sufficient, but I once read it
thus, _When thou canst get the ring upon_ thy _finger, which newer
shall come off_ mine.

III.ii.100 (74,3) [Not so, but as we change our courtesies] The gentlemen
declare that they are servants to the Countess, she replies,
No otherwise than as she returns the same offices of civility.

III.iv.4 (77,4) [St. Jaques' pilgrim] I do not remember any place
famous for pilgrimages consecrated in Italy to St. James, but it
is common to visit St. James of Compostella, in Spain. Another
saint might easily have been found, Florence being somewhat out
of the road from Bonsillon to Compostella.

III.iv.13 (77,6) [Juno] Alluding to tho story of Hercules.

III.iv.19 (77,6) [Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much] _Advice_,
is _discretion_ or _thought_.

III.v.21 (79,7) [are not the things they go under] [W: Mr. Theobald
explains these words by, _They are not really so true and sincere
as in appearance they seem to be_.] I think Theobald's interpretation
right; _to go under_ the name of any thing is a known expression.
The meaning is, they are not the things for which their
names would make them pass.

III.v.66 (81,8) [examin'd] That is, _question'd, doubted_.

III.v.74 (81,9) [brokes] Deals as a _broker_.

III.vi.107 (86,6) [we have almost imboss'd him] To imboss a deer is
to inclose him in a wood. Milton uses the same word:

  _Like that self-begotten bird
  In th' Arabian woods embost.
  Which no second knows or third_.

III.vi.III (87,7) [ere we case him] This is, before we strip him
naked. (1773)

III.vii.9 (88,2) [to your sworn council] To your private knowledge,
after having required from you an oath of secrecy.

III.vii.21 (88,9) [Now his important blood will nought deny] _Important_
here, and elsewhere, is _importunate_.

IV.i.16 (90,2) [some band of strangers i' the adversary's entertainment]
That is, _foreign troops in the enemy's pay_.

Iv.i.44 (91,3) [the instance] The _proof_.

IV.ii.13 (94,5)

  [No more of that!
  I pr'ythee, do not strive against my vows:
  I was compell'd to her]

I know not well what Bertram can mean by entreating Diana _not to
strive against his vows_. Diana has just mentioned his _wife_, so
that the _vows_ seem to relate to his marriage.  In this sense not
Diana, but himself, _strives against his vows_. His _vows_ indeed may
mean _vows_ made to Diana; but, in that case, to _strive against_ is
not properly used for to reject, nor does this sense cohere well
with his first exclamation of impatience at the mention of his
wife. _No more of that_! Perhaps we might read,

  _I Pr'ythee do not_ drive _against my vows.

Do not_ run _upon that topick; talk of any thing else that I can
bear to hear_.

I have another conceit upon this passage, which I would be
thought to offer without much confidence:

  _No more of that_!
  _I pr'ythee do not_ strive--_against my_ voice
  _I was compell'd to her._

Diana tells him unexpectedly of his wife. He answers with perturbation,
_No more of that! I pr'ythee do not_ play the confessor
--_against my own_ consent _I was compelled to her_.

When a young profligate finds his courtship so gravely repressed
by an admonition of his duty, he very naturally desires the girl
not to take upon her the office of a confessor.

IV.ii.23 (95,6) [What is not holy, that we swear not 'bides] [W: not
'bides] This is an acute and excellent conjecture, and I have done
it the due honour of exalting it to the text; yet, methinks, there
is something yet wanting. The following words, _but take the
High'st to witness_, even though it be understood as an anticipation
or assumption in this sense,--_but_ now suppose that you _take the_
Highest _to witness_,--has not sufficient relation to the antecedent
sentence. I will propose a reading nearer to the surface, and let
it take its chance.

   Ber. _How have I sworn_!

   Diana. _'Tis not the many oaths, that make the truth,
     But the plain single vow, that is vow'd true_.

   Ber. _What is not holy, that we swear not by.
     But take the High'st to witness_.

   Diana. _Then, pray tell me.
     If I should swear_, &c.

Bertram means to enforce his suit, by telling her, that he has
bound himself to her, not by the pretty protestations usual among
lovers, but by vows of greater solemnity. She then makes a proper
and rational reply.

IV.ii.25 (96,7) [If I should swear by Jove's great attributes] In the
print of the old folio, it is doubtful whether it be _Jove's_ or
_Love's_, the characters being not distinguishable. If it is read
_Love's_, perhaps it may be something less difficult.  I am still at
a loss.

It may be read thus,

            --"this has no holding,
   "To swear by him whom I _attest_ to love,
   "That I will work against him."

There is no consistence in expressing reverence for Jupiter by
calling him to _attest_ my love, and shewing at the same time, by
_working against him_ by a wicked passion, that I have no respect to
the name which I invoke. (1773)

IV.ii.28 (96,8) [To swear by him whom I protest to love, That I will
work against him] This passage likewise appears to me corrupt. She
swears not _by_ him whom she _loves_, but by Jupiter. I believe we may
read, _to swear_ to _him_. There is, says she, no _holding_, no
consistency,  in swearing to one that _I love him_, when I swear it
only to _injure_ him.

IV.ii.73 (98,9) [Since Frenchmen are so braid, Marry that will, I'll
live and die a maid] [W: Marry 'em] The passage is very unimportant,
and the old reading reasonable enough. Nothing is more common than
for girls, on such occasions, to say in a pet what they do not
think, or to think for a time what they do not finally resolve.

IV.iii.7 (98,1) [I _Lord_] The later editors have with great liberality
bestowed lordship upon these interlocutors, who, in the original
edition, are called, with more propriety, _capt_. E. and _capt_. G.
It is true that _captain_ E. is in a former scene called _lord_ E. but
the subordination in which they seem to act, and the timorous manner
in which they converse, determines them to be only captains.
Yet as the later readers of Shakespeare have been used to find
them lords, I have not thought it worth while to degrade them in
the margin.

IV.iii.29 (99,2) [he, that in this action contrives against his own
nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself] That is, _betrays
his own secrets in his own talk_. The reply shows that this is the
meaning.

IV.iii.38 (100,3) [he might take a measure of his own judgment] This
is a very just and moral reason. Bertram, by finding how erroneously
he has judged, will be less confident, and more easily moved by
admonition.

IV.iii.113 (102,4) [bring forth this counterfeit module] [W: medal]
_Module_ being the _pattern_ of any thing, may be here used in that
sense. Bring forth this fellow, who, by _counterfeit_ virtue pretended
to make himself a _pattern_.

IV.iii.237 (106,8) [Dian. _the Count's a fool, and full of gold_] After
this line there is apparently a line lost, there being no rhime
that corresponds to gold.

IV.iii.254 (106,9) [Half won, is match well made; match, and well
make it] This line has no meaning that I can find. I read, with
a very slight alteration, _Half won is match well made_; watch, _and
well make it_. That is, _a match well made is half won; watch, and
make it well_.

This is, in my opinion, not all the error. The lines are misplaced,
and should be read thus:

  _Half won is match well made; watch, and well make it;
  when he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it.
  After he scores, he never pays the score:
  He never pays after-debts, take it before.
  And say----_

That is, take his money and leave him to himself. When the players
had lost the second line, they tried to make a connection out
of the rest. Part is apparently in couplets, and the note was
probably uniform.

IV.iii.280 (107,1) [He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister] I
know not that _cloister_, though it may etymologically signify _any_
_thing shut_ is used by our author, otherwise than for a _monastery_,
and therefore I cannot guess whence this hyperbole could take its
original: perhaps it means only this: _He will steal any thing,
however trifling, from any place, however holy_.

IV.iii.307 (108,2) [he's a cat still] That is, throw him how you will,
he lights upon his legs. [Steevens offered another explanation] I
an still of my former opinion. The same speech was applied by king
James to Coke, with respect to his subtilties of law, that throw
him which way we would, he could still like a cat light upon his
legs. (see 1765, III,372,1)

IV.iii.317 (109,3) [Why does he ask him of me?] This is nature. Every
man is on such occasions more willing to hear his neighbour's
character than his own.

IV.iii.332 (109,4) [Only to seem to deserve well, and to beguile the
supposition of that lascivious young boy the Count, have I run into
this danger] That is, _to deceive the opinion_, to make the count
think me a man that _deserves well_.

IV.iv.23 (III,6) [When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts Defiles
the pitchy night!] [W: When Fancy,] This conjecture is truly ingenious,
but, I believe, the author of it will himself think it unnecessary,
when he recollects that _saucy_ may very properly signify
_luxurious_, and by consequence _lascivious_.

IV.iv.31 (112,7)

  [But with the word, the time will bring on summer,
  When briars shall have leaves as well as thorns,
  And be as sweet as sharp]

The meaning of this observation is, that _as briars_ have _sweetness_
with their _prickles_, so shall these _troubles_ be recompensed with
_joy_.

IV.iv.34 (112,8) [Our waggon is prepar'd, and time revives us] [W: revyes]
The present reading is corrupt, and I am afraid the emendation
none of the soundest. I never remember to have seen the word
_revye_. One may as well leave blunders as make them. Why may we
not read for a shift, without much effort, _the time_ invites _us_?

IV.v.8 (114,1) [I would, I had not known him!] This dialogue serves
to connect the incidents of Parolles with the main plan of the
play.

IV.v.66 (116,4) [_Laf_. A shrewd knave, and an unhappy] That is,
_mischievously waggish; unlucky_. (see 1765, III,379,3)

IV.v.70 (116,5) [he has no pace, but runs where he will] [Tyrrwhit:
place] A _pace_ is a certain or prescribed walk, so we say of a man
meanly obsequious, that he has learned his _paces_. (1773) [(rev.
1778, IV,126,3]

V.i.35 (120,8)

[I will come after you, with what good speed
Our means will make us means]

Shakespeare delights much in this kind of reduplication, sometimes
so as to obscure his meaning.  Helena says, _they will follow with
such speed as the means which they have will give them ability to
exert_.

V.ii.57 (123,3) [tho' you are a fool and a knave, you shall eat]
Parolles has many of the lineaments of Falstaff, and seems to be
the character which Shakespeare delighted to draw, a fellow that
had more wit than virtue.  Though justice required that he should
be detected and exposed, yet his _vices sit so fit in him_ that he
is not at last suffered to starve.

V.iii.1 (123,4) [We lost a jewel of her, and our esteem Was made much
poorer by it] Dr. Warburton, in Theobald's edition, altered this
word to _estate_, in his own he lets it stand and explains it by
worth or estate.  But _esteem_ is here _reckoning_ or _estimate_. Since
the loss of _Helen_ with her _virtues_ and _qualifications_, our _account_
is _sunk_; what we have to _reckon_ ourselves king of, is much _poorer_
than before.

V.iii.4 (123,5) [home] That is, _completely_, _in its full extent_.

V.iii.6 (123,6) [done i' the blade of youth] In the _spring_ of _early
life_, when the man is yet _green_, _oil_ and _fire_ suit but ill with
_blade_, and therefore Dr. Warburton reads, _blaze_ of youth.

V.iii.21 (124,7) [the first view shall kill All repetition] _The first
interview shall put an end to all recollection of the past_.
Shakespeare is now hastening to the end of the play, finds his matter
sufficient to fill up his remaining scenes, and therefore, as
on other such occasions, contracts his dialogue and precipitates
his action. Decency required that Bertram's double crime of cruelty
and disobedience, joined likewise with some hypocrisy, should raise
more resentment; and that though his mother might easily forgive
him, his king should more pertinaciously vindicate his own authority
and Helen's merit: of all this Shakespeare could not be ignorant,
but Shakespeare wanted to conclude his play.

V.iii.50 (125,9) [My high repented blames] [A long note by Warburton]
It was but just to insert this note, long as it is, because the
commentator seems to think it of importance. Let the reader judge.

V.iii.65 (127,1)

  [Our own love, waking, cries to see what's done,
  While shameful hate sleeps out the afternoon]

These two lines I should be glad to call _an interpolation of a
player_. They are ill connected with the former, and not very
clear or proper in themselves. I believe the author made two
couplets to the same purpose, wrote them both down that he might
take his choice, and so they happened to be both preserved.

For _sleep_ I think we should read _slept_. _Love cries_ to see what
was done while hatred _slept_, and suffered mischief to be done. Or
the meaning may be, that _hatred_ still _continues_ to _sleep_ at ease,
while _love_ is weeping; and so the present reading may stand.

V.iii.93 (128,3) [In Florence was it from a casement thrown me]
Bertram still continues to have too little virtue to deserve Helen.
He did not know indeed that it was Helen's ring, but he knew that
he had it not from a window.

V.iii.95 (128,4) [Noble she was, and thought I stood engag'd]
[T: I don't understand this reading; if we are to understand, that she
thought Bertram engag'd to her in affection, insnared by her
charms, this meaning is too obscurely express'd.] The context rather
makes me believe, that the poet wrote,

_noble she was, and thought
I stood_ ungag'd;-----

i.e. unengag'd: neither my heart, nor person, dispos'd of.--The
plain meaning is, when she saw me receive the ring, she thought me
_engaged_ to her.

V.iii.101 (129,5) [_King_ Plutus himself , That knows the tinct and
multiplying medicine] Plutus the grand alchemist, who knows the
_tincture_ which confers the properties of gold upon base metals, and
the _matter_ by which _gold_ is _multiplied_, by which a small quantity
of gold is made to communicate its qualities to a large mass of metal.

In the reign of Henry the fourth a law was made to forbid _all
men thenceforth to_ multiply _gold, or use any craft of_ multiplication.
Of which law Mr. Boyle, when he was warm with the hope of
transmutation, procured a repeal.

V.iii.105 (129,6) [Then if you know, That you are well acquainted
with yourself] The true meaning of this _strange_ [Warburton's word]
expression is, _If you know that_ your faculties are so found, as
_that you have the proper consciousness of your own actions_, and
are able to recollect and relate what you have done, _tell me_. &c.

V.iii.121 (130,7)

[My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
Having vainly fear'd too little]

The _proofs which I have already had_, are sufficient to show that my
_fears_ were not _vain_ and irrational. I have rather been hither-to
more easy than I ought, and have _unreasonably_ had _too little fear_.

V.iii.131 (130,8) [Who hath, some four or five removes, come short]
_Removes_ are _journies_ or _post-stages_.

V.iii.191 (133,1) [O, behold this ring. Whose high respect and rich
validity] _Validity is a very bad word for _value_, which yet I think
is its meaning, unless it be considered as making a contract _valid_.

V.iii.214 (133,2)

[As all impediments in fancy's course,
Are motives of more fancy: and in fine,
Her insult coming with her modern grace,
Subdu'd me to her rate: she got the ring]

_Every thing that obstructs love is an occasion by which love is
heightened. And, to conclude, her solicitation concurring with her
fashionable appearance_, she got the ring.

I an not certain that I have attained the true meaning of the
word _modern_, which, perhaps, signifies rather _meanly pretty_.

V.iii.296-305 (137,3) This dialogue is too long, since the audience
already knew the whole transaction; nor is there any reason for
puzzling the king and playing with his passions; but it was much
easier than to make a pathetical interview between Helen and her
husband, her mother, and the king.

V.iii.305 (137,4) [exorcist] This word is used not very properly for
_enchanter_.

V.iii.339 (139,2) [Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts]
The meaning is: _Grant us then your patience_; hear us without
interruption. _And_ take _our parts_; that is, support and defend us.
(see 1765, III,399)

(139) General Observation. This play has many delightful scenes,
though not sufficiently probable, and some happy characters, though
not new, nor produced by any deep knowledge of human nature.
Parolles is a boaster and a coward, such as has always been the
sport of the stage, but perhaps never raised more laughter or contempt
than in the hands of Shakespeare.

I cannot reconcile my heart to Bertram; a man noble without
generosity, and young without truth; who marries Helen as a coward,
and leaves her as a profligate: when she is dead by his unkindness,
sneaks home to a second marriage, is accused by a woman whom
he has wronged, defends himself by falsehood, and is dismissed to
happiness.

The story of Bertram and Diana hod been told before of Mariana
and Angelo, and, to confess the truth, scarcely merited to be
heard a second time.




TWELFTH-NIGHT

(142) The persons of the drama were first enumerated, with all the
cant of the modern stage, by Mr. Rowe.

I.i.2 (143,2) [that, surfeiting, The appetite may sicken, and so die]
[W: app'tite, Love] It is true, we do not talk of the _death of
appetite_, because we do not ordinarily speak in the figurative
language of poetry; but that _appetite sickens by a surfeit_ is true,
and therefore proper.

I.i.21 (145,6) [That instant was I turn'd into a hart] This image
evidently alludes to the story of Acteon, by which Shakespeare
seems to think men cautioned against too great familiarity with
forbidden beauty. Acteon, who saw Diana naked, and was torn in
pieces by his hounds, represents a man, who indulging his eyes,
or his imagination, with the view of a woman that he cannot gain,
has his heart torn with incessant longing. An interpretation far
more elegant and natural than that of Sir Francis Bacon, who, in
his _Wisdom of the Antients_, supposes this story to warn us against
enquiring into the secrets of princes, by shewing, that those who
knew that which for reasons of state is to be concealed, will be
detected and destroyed by their own servants.

I.ii.25 (147,9) [A noble Duke in nature, as in name] I know not whether
the nobility of the name is comprised in _Duke_, or in _Orsino_,
which is, I think, the name of a great Italian family.

I.ii.42 (148,1)

[_Vio_. O, that I serv'd that lady;
And might not be deliver'd to the world,
'Till I had made mine own occasion mellow
What my estate is!]

I wish I might not be _made public_ to the world, with regard to the
_state_ of my birth and fortune, till I have gained a _ripe opportunity_
for my design.

Viola seems to have formed a very deep design with very little
premeditation:  she is thrown by shipwreck on an unknown coast,
hears that the prince is a batchelor, and resolves to supplant the
lady whom he courts.

I.ii.55 (149,2) [I'll serve this Duke] Viola is an excellent schemer,
never at a loss; if she cannot serve the lady, she will serve the
Duke.

I.iii.77 (152,5) [It's dry, sir] What is the jest of _dry hand_, I know
not any better than Sir Andrew.  It may possibly mean, a hand with
no money in it; or, according to the rules of physiognomy, she may
intend to insinuate, that it is not a lover's hand, a moist hand
being vulgarly accounted a sign of an amorous constitution.

I.iii.148 (154,9) [Taurus? that's sides and heart] Alluding to the
medical astrology still preserved in almanacks, which refers the
affections or particular parts of the body, to the predominance of
particular constellations.

I.iv.34 (155,1) [And all is semblative--a woman's part] That is, thy
proper part in a play would be a woman's.  Women were then personated
by boys.

I.v.9 (156,2) [lenten answer] A _lean_, or as we now call it, a _dry_
answer.

I.v.39 (157,4) [Better be a witty fool, than a foolish wit] Hall, in
his _Chronicle_, speaking of the death of Sir Thomas More, says, that
he knows not whether to call him _a foolish wise man, or a wise
foolish man_.

I.v.105 (159,5) [Now Mercury indue thee with leasing, for thou
speak'st well of fools!] [W: pleasing] I think the present reading
more humourous. _May Mercury teach thee to lie, since thou liest
in favour of fools_.

I.v.213 (164,1) [to make one in so skipping a dialogue] Wild, frolick,
mad.

I.v.218 (164,2) [Some mollification for your giant] Ladies, in romance,
are guarded by giants, who repel all improper or troublesome
advances. Viola seeing the waiting-maid so eager to oppose
her message, intreats Olivia to pacify her giant.

I.v.328 (168,8)

[_Oli_. I do, I know not what; and fear to find
Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind]

I believe the meaning is; I am not mistress of my own actions, I
am afraid that my eyes betray me, and flatter the youth without
my consent, with discoveries of love.

II.i.15 (169,9) [to express myself] That is, _to reveal myself_.

II.i.28 (169,1) [with such estimable wonder] These words Dr. Warburton
calls _an interpolation of the players_, but what did the players
gain by it? they may be sometimes guilty of a joke without the
concurrence of the poet, but they never lengthen a speech only to
make it longer.  Shakespeare often confounds the active and
passive adjectives.  _Estimable wonder_ is _esteeming wonder_, or
_wonder and esteem_.  The meaning is, that he could not venture to think
so highly as others of his sister.

II.ii.21 (171,2) [her eyes had lost her tongue] [W: crost] That the
fascination of the eyes was called _crossing_ ought to have been
proved. But however that be, the present reading has not only
sense but beauty.  We say a man _loses_ his company when they go
one way and he goes another. So Olivia's tongue _lost_ her eyes;
her tongue was talking of the Duke and her eyes gazing on his
messenger.

II.ii.29 (171,3) [the pregnant enemy] is, I believe, the dexterous
fiend, or enemy of mankind. (1773)

II.ii.30 (171,4)

[How easy is it, for the proper false
In women's waxen hearts to set their forms]

This is obscure.  The meaning is, _how easy is disguise to women_;
how easily does _their own falsehood_, contained in their _waxen
changeable _hearts_, enable them to assume deceitful appearances.
The two next lines are perhaps transposed, and should be read
thus,

_For such as we are made, if such we be,
Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we_.

II.iii.27 (175,9) [I did impeticoat thy gratility] This, Sir T. Hammer
tells us, is the same with _impocket thy gratuity_. He is undoubtedly
right; but we must read, _I did_ impeticoat _thy_ gratuity.
The fools were kept in long coats, to which the allusion is made.
There is yet much in this dialogue which I do not understand.

II.iii.51 (176,1) [In delay there lies no plenty] [W: decay] I believe
_delay_ is right.

II.iii.52 (176,2) [Then come kiss me, sweet, and twenty] This line is
obscure; we might read,

     _Come, a kiss then, sweet, and twenty._

Yet I know not whether the present reading be not right, for in
some counties _sweet and twenty_, whatever be the meaning, is a
phrase of endearment.

II.iii.59 (176,3) [make the welkin dance] That is, drink till the
sky seems to turn round.

II.iii.75 (177,5) [They sing a catch] This catch is lost.

II.iii.81 (177,6) [Peg-a-Ramsey] _Peg-a-Ramsey_ I do not understand.
_Tilly vally_ was an interjection of contempt, which Sir Thomas
More a lady is recorded to have had very often in her mouth.

II.iii.97 (178,7) [ye squeak out your coziers catches] A _Cozier_ is a
taylor, from _coudre_ to sew, part, _consu_, French, (see 1765, 11,383,2)

II.iii.128 (180,l) [rub your chain with crums] I suppose it should be
read, _rub your_ chin _with crums_, alluding to what had been said before
that.  Malvolio was only a steward, and consequently dined
after his lady.

II.iii.131 (180,2) [you would not give means for this uncivil rule]
_Rule_ is, method of life, so _misrule_ is tumult and riot.

II.iii.149 (181,3) [Possess us] That is, _inform us_, _tell us_, make us
masters of the matter.

II.iv.5 (183,5) [light airs, and recollected terms] I rather think
that _recollected_ signifies, more nearly to its primitive sense,
_recalled_, _repeated_, and alludes to the practice of composers, who
often prolong the song by repetitions.

II.iv.26 (184,6) [favour] The word _favour_ ambiguously used.

II.iv.35 (184,7) [lost and worn] Though _lost and worn_ may means _lost
and worn out_, yet _lost and won_ being, I think, better, these two
words coming usually and naturally together, and the alteration
being very slight, I would so read in this place with Sir Tho.
Hammer.

II.iv.46 (185,8) [free] is, perhaps, _vacant_, _unengaged_, _easy in mind_.

II.iv.47 (185,9) [silly sooth] It is plain, simple truth.

II.iv.49 (185,2) [old age] The _old age_ is the _ages past_, the times of
simplicity.

II.iv.58 (185,3) [My part of death no one so true Did share it]
Though _death_ is a _part_ in which every one acts his _share_, yet of
all these actors no one is _so true_ as I.

II.iv.87 (187,6)

[But 'tis that miracle, and queen of gems,
That nature pranks her in]

[W: pranks, her mind] The _miracle and queen of gems_ is her _beauty_,
which the commentator might have found without so emphatical an
enquiry.  As to her mind, he that should be captious would say,
that though it may be formed by nature it must be _pranked_ by education.

Shakespeare does not say that _nature pranks her in a miracle_,
but _in the miracle of gems_, that is, _in a gem miraculously beautiful_.

II.v.43 (191,2) [the lady of the Strachy] [W: We should read _Trachy_.
i.e. _Thrace_; for so the old English writers called it] What we
should read is hard to say. Here it an allusion to some old
story which I have not yet discovered.

II.v.51 (191,3) [stone-bow] That is, a cross-bow, a bow which shoots
stones.

II.v.66 (192,4) [wind up my watch] In our author's time watches were
very uncommon. When Guy Faux was taken, it was urged as a
circumstance of suspicion that a watch was found upon him.

II.v.70 (192,5) [Tho' our silence be drawn from us with carts] I believe
the true reading is, _Though our silence be drawn from us
with_ carts, _yet peace_.  In the _The Two Gentlemen of_ Verona, one of
the Clowns says, _I have a mistress, but who that is_, a team of
horses _shall not_ draw from me. So in this play, _Oxen and wainropes
will not bring them together_.

II.v.97 (193,7) [her great _P_'s] [Steevens: In the direction of the
letter which Malvolio reads, there is neither a C, nor a P, to be
found] There may, however, be words in the direction which he does
not read. To formal directions of two ages ago were often added
these words, Humbly _Present_. (1773)

II.v.144 (195,2) [And _O_ shall end, I hope] By _O_ is here meant what
we now call a _hempen collar_.

II.v.207 (197,6) [tray-trip] The word _tray-trip_ I do not understand.

II.v.215 (198,7) [aqua vitae] Is the old name of _strong waters_.

III.i.57 (200,9) [lord Pandarus] See our author's play of _Troilus
and Cressida_.

III.i.71 (200,1) [And, like the haggard, check at every feather] The
meaning may be, that he must catch every opportunity, as the wild
hawk strikes every bird. But perhaps it might be read more properly,

    Not _like the haggard_.

He must chuse persons and times, and observe tempers, he must fly
at proper game, like the trained hawk, and not fly at large like
the _haggard_, to seize all that comes in his way. (1773)

III.i.75 (201,2) [But wise-men's folly fall'n] Sir Thomas Hammer
reads, _folly shewn_. [The sense is, _But wise men's folly, when it
is once fallen into extravagance, overpowers their discretion_.
Revisal.] I explain it thus. The folly which he shows with proper
adaptation to persons and times, _is fit_, has its propriety,
and therefore produces no censure; but the folly of wise men when
it _falls_ or _happens_, taints their wit, destroys the reputation of
their judgment. (see 1765, II,402,2)

III.i.86 (202,4) [she is the list of my voyage] Is the _bound, limit,
farthest point_.

III.i.100 (202,5) [most pregnant and vouchsafed ear] _Pregnant_ is a
word in this writer of very lax signification. It may here mean
_liberal_. (1773)

III.i.123 (203,6) [After the last enchantment (you did hear)]
[W: enchantment you did here] The present reading is no more nonsense
than the emendation.

III.i.132 (203,8) [a Cyprus] Is a transparent stuff.

III.i.135 (204,9) [a grice] Is a _step_, sometimes written _greese_ from
_degres_, French.

III.i.170 (205,1) [I have one heart, one bosom, and one truth, And
that no woman has] And that heart and boson I have never yielded
to any woman.

III.ii.45 (207,5) [Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief]
_Martial hand_, seems to be a careless scrawl, such as shewed the
writer to neglect ceremony. _Curst_, is petulant, crabbed--a curst
cur, is a dog that with little provocation snarls and bites. (1773)

III.iv.61 (213,1) [midsummer madness] Hot weather often turns the
brain, which is, I suppose, alluded to here.

III.iv.82 (214,3) [I have lim'd her] I have entangled or caught her,
as a bird is caught with birdlime.

III.iv.85 (214,4) [Fellow:] This word which originally signified companion,
was not yet totally degraded to its present meaning; and
Malvolio takes it in the favourable sense.

III.iv.130 (215,6) [Hang him, foul collier] The devil is called _Collier_
for his blackness, _Like will to like, says the Devil to the
Collier_. (1773)

III.iv.154 (216,7) [a finder of madmen] This is, I think, an allusion
to the _witch-finders_, who were very busy.

III.iv.184 (217,8) [_God have mercy upon one of our souls! He may
have mercy upon mine, but my hope is better_] We may read, _He may
have mercy upon_ thine, _but my hope is better_. Yet the passage
may well enough stand without alteration.

It were much to be wished, that Shakespeare in this and some
other passages, had not ventured so near profaneness.

III.iv.228 (218,9) [wear this jewel for me] _Jewel_ does not properly
signify a single gem, but any precious ornament or superfluity.

III.iv.257 (219,2) [Be is knight, dubb'd with unhack'd rapier, and on
carpet consideration] That is, he is no soldier by profession, not
a Knight Banneret, dubbed in the field of battle, but, _on carpet
consideration_, at a festivity, or on sone peaceable occasion, when
knights receive their dignity kneeling not on the ground, as in
war, but on a _carpet_. This is, I believe, the original of the
contemptuous term a carpet knight, who was naturally held in scorn by
the men of war.

III.iv.301 (222,4) [I have not seen such a virago] _Virago_ cannot be
properly used here, unless we suppose Sir Toby to mean, I never
saw one that had so much the look of woman with the prowess of man.

III.iv.408 (225,7) [Methinks, his words do from such passion fly,
                   That he believes himself;--so do not I]

This I believe, means, I do not yet believe myself, when, from this
accident, I gather hope of my brother's life.

IV.i.14 (227,8) [I am afraid this great lubber the world will prove a
cockney] That is, affectation and foppery will overspread the world.

IV.i.57 (228,2) [In this uncivil and unjust extent] _Extent_ is, in law,
a writ of execution, whereby goods are seized for the king.  It is
therefore taken here for _violence_ in general.

IV.i.60 (228,3) [This ruffian hath botch'd up] I fancy it is only a
coarse expression for _made up_, as a bad taylor is called a _botcher_.
and to botch is to make clumsily.

IV.i.63 (229,4) [He started one poor heart of mine in thee] I know
not whether here be not an ambiguity intended between _heart_ and
_hart_. The sense however is easy enough. _He that offends thee attacks
one of my hearts_; or, as the antients expressed it, _half my
heart_.

IV.i.64 (229,5) [What relish is this?] How does it taste? What judgment
am I to make of it?

IV.ii.53 (231,9) [constant question] A settled, a determinate, a regular
question.

IV.ii.68 (232,1) [Nay, I am for all waters] I rather think this expression
borrowed from sportsmen, and relating to the qualifications
of a complete spaniel.

IV.ii.99 (233,2) [They have here property'd me] They have taken possession
of me as of a man unable to look to himself.

IV.ii.107 (233,3) [Maintain no words with him] Here the Clown in the
dark acts two persons, and counterfeits, by variation of voice, a
dialogue between himself and Sir Topas.--_I Will, sir, I Will_. is
spoken after a pause, as if, in the mean time, Sir Topas had whispered.

IV.ii.121 (234,4) [tell me true, are you not mad, indeed, or do you
but counterfeit?] If he was not mad, what did be counterfeit by
declaring that he was not mad? The fool, who meant to insult him,
I think, asks, _are you mad, or do you but counterfeit_? That is,
_you look like a madman, you talk like a madman_:  _Is your madness
real, or have you any secret design in it_? This, to a man in poor
Malvolio's state, was a severe taunt.

IV.ii.134 (234,5) [like to the old vice] _Vice_ was the fool of the old
moralities. Some traces of this character are still preserved in
puppet-shows, and by country mummers.

IV.ii.141 (235.6)_'Adieu, goodman devil_] This last line has neither
rhime nor meaning. I cannot but suspect that the fool translates
Malvolio's name, and says,

_Adieu, goodman mean-evil_. (1773)

IV.iii.12 (236,8) [all instance, all discourse] _Instance_ is _example_.
(see 1765, II,433,9)

IV.iii.15 (236,9) [To any other trust] To any other belief, or confidence,
to any other fixed opinion.

IV.iii.29 (236,1) [Whiles] Is _until_. This word is still so used in
the northern counties. It is, I think, used in this sense in the
preface to the Accidence.

IV.iii.33 (237,2) [And, having sworn truth, ever will be true]
_Truth_ is _fidelity_.

V.i.23 (238,3) [so that, conclusions to be as kisses, if your four
negatives make your two affirmatives, why, then the worse for my
friends, and the better for my foes] Though I do not discover much
ratiocination in the Clown's discourse, yet, methinks, I can find
some glimpse of a meaning in his observation, that _the conclusion
is as kisses_. For, says he, _if four negatives make two affirmatives,
the conclusion is as kisses_; that is, the conclusion follows
by the conjunction of two negatives, which, by _kissing_ and
embracing, coalesce into one, and make an affirmative. What the
_four_ negatives are I do not know. I read, _So that conclusions be
as kisses_.

V.i.42 (239,4) [bells of St. Bennet] When in this play he mentioned
the _bed of_ Ware, he recollected that the scene was in Illyria,
and added _in England_; but his sense of the same impropriety
could not restrain him from the bells of St. Bennet.

V.i.67 (240,5) [desperate of shame, and state] Unattentive to his
character or his condition, like a desperate man.

V.i.112 (241,5) [as fat and fulsome] [W: flat] _Fat_ means _dull_; so
we say a _fatheaded_ fellow; _fat_ likewise means _gross_, and is
sometimes used for _obscene_; and _fat_ is more congruent to _fulsome_
than _flat_.

V.i.168 (244,7) [case] _Case_ is a word used contemptuously for _skin_.
We yet talk of a _fox case_, meaning the stuffed skin of a fox.

V.i.204 (246,9) [A natural perspective] A _perspective_ seems to be
taken for shows exhibited through a glass with such lights as
make the pictures appear really protruberant. The Duke therefore
says, that nature has here exhibited such a show, where shadows
seem realities; where that which is _not_ appears like that which is.

V.i.306 (249,3) [but to read his right wits, is to read thus] Perhaps
so,--_but to read his_ wits right _is to read thus_. To represent his
present state of mind, is to read a madman's letter, as I now do,
like a madman. (1773)

V.i.326 (249,4) [One day shall crown the alliance on't, so please
you] [Revisal: an't so] This is well conjectured; but _on't_ may relate
to the double character of sister and wife. (1773)

V.i.347 (250,5) [to frown Upon sir Toby, and the lighter people] People
of less dignity or importance.

V.i.351 (250,6) [geck] A fool.

(253) General Observation. This play is in the graver part elegant
and easy, and in some of the lighter scenes exquisitely humorous.
Ague--cheek is drawn with great propriety, but his character is, in
a great measure, that of natural fatuity, and is therefore not the
proper prey of a satirist. The soliloquy of Malvolio is truly
comic; he is betrayed to ridicule merely by his pride. The marriage
of Olivia, and the succeeding perplexity, though well enough
contrived to divert on the stage, wants credibility, and fails to
produce the proper instruction required in the drama, as it exhibits
no just picture of life.




THE WINTER'S TALE

(257,1) The story of this play is taken from the _Pleasaunt History
of Dorastus and Fawnia_, written by Robert Greene. (1773)

I.i.9 (258,2) [Wherein our entertainment shall shame us, we will be
justified in our loves] Though we cannot give you equal entertainment,
yet the consciousness of our good-will shall justify us.

I.i.30 (258,3) [royally attornied] Nobly supplied by substitution
of embassies, &c.

l.i.43 (259,4) [physicks the subject] Affords a cordial to the state;
has the power of assuaging the sense of misery.

I.ii.13 (259,5) [that may blow No sneaping rinds] _That may blow_ is a
Gallicism, for _may there blow_. (1773)

I.ii.31 (261,6) [All in Bohemia's well:  this satisfaction The bygone day
proclaim'd] We had satisfactory accounts yesterday of the
state of Bohemia. (1773)

I.ii.123 (266,6) [We must be neat] Leontes, seeing his son's nose
smutched, cries, _We must be neat_, then recollecting that _neat_ is the
term for _horned_ cattle, he says, _not neat, but cleanly_.

I.ii.125 (266,7) [Still virginalling] Still playing with her fingers,
as a girl playing on the _virginals_.

I.ii.132 (266,8) [As o'er-dy'd blacks] Sir T. Hammer understands,
blacks died too much, and therefore rotten.

I.ii.136 (267,9) [welkin-eye] Blue eye; an eye of the same colour
with the _welkin_, or sky.

I.ii.139 (267,2) [Thou dost make possible things not so held] i.e.
thou dost make those things possible, which are conceived to be
impossible. (1773)

I.ii.161,3 (268,3) [will you take eggs for mony?] This seems to be a
proverbial expression, used when a man sees himself wronged and
makes no resistance. Its original, or precise meaning, I cannot
find, but I believe it means, will you be a _cuckold_ for hire. The
cuckow is reported to lay her eggs in another bird's nest; he
therefore that has eggs laid in his nest, is said to be _cocullatus_,
_cuckow'd_, or _cuckold_.

I.ii.163 (268,4) [happy man be his dole!] May his _dole_ or _share_ in life
be to be a _happy man_.

I.ii.176 (269,5) [he's Appareat to my heart] That is, _heir apparent_.or
the next claimant.

I.ii.186 (269,6) [a fork'd one] That is, a _horned_ one; a _cuckold_.

I.ii.217 (270,9) [whispering, rounding] _To round in the ear_, is to
_whisper_, or _to tell secretly_. The expression is very copiously
explained by H. Casaubon, in his book _de Ling. Sax_.

I.ii.227 (271,1) [lower messes] _Mess_ is a contraction of _Master_, as
_Mess_ John. Master John; an appellation used by the Scots, to those
who have taken their academical degree.  _Lower Messes_, therefore are
graduates of a lower form.

The speaker is now mentioning gradations of understanding, and
not of rank, (see 1765, II,244,9)

I.ii.260 (372,2) [Whereof the execution did cry out Against the
nonperformance] This is one of the expressions by which Shakespeare
too frequently clouds his meaning.  This sounding phrase means, I
think, no more than _a thing necessary to be done_. [_Revisal_; the
now-performance] I do not see that this attempt does any thing
more, than produce a harsher word without on easier sense, (see
1765, II,245,1)

I.ii.320 (275,5) [But with a ling'ring dram, that should not work,
Maliciously, like poison] [Hammer: Like a malicious poison] _Rash_
is _hasty_, as in another place, _rash gunpowder.  Maliciously_ is
_malignantly_, with effects _openly hurtful_.  Shakespeare had no
thought of _betraying the user_.  The Oxford emendation is harmless and
useless.

1.ii.321 (275,6)

          [But I cannot
Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress,
So sovereignly being honourable.
_Leo_.  I have lov'd thee--Make that thy question,
and go rot!]

[Theobald had emended the text to give the words "I have lov'd
thee" to Leontes] I have admitted this alteration, as Dr. Warburton
has done, but am not convinced that it is necessary.  Camillo,
desirous to defend the queen, and willing to secure credit to his
apology, begins, by telling the king that he _has loved him_, is
about to give instances of his love, and to infer from them his
present zeal, when he is interrupted.

I.ii.394 (278,7) [In whose success we are gentle] I know not whether
_success_ here does not mean _succession_.

I.ii.424 (279,1) [_Cam_. Swear this thought over By each particular star
in heaven] [T: this though] _Swear his thought over_

May however perhaps mean, _overswear his present persuasion_,
that is, endeavour to _overcome his opinion_, by swearing oaths numerous
as the stars. (1773)

I.ii.458 (281,3) [Good expedition be my friend, and comfort The gracious
queen] [W: queen's] Dr. Warburton's conjecture is, I think,
just; but what shall be done with the following words, of which I
can make nothing? Perhaps the line which connected them to the
rest, is lost.

--_and comfort
The gracious queen, part of his theme, but nothing
Of his ill-ta'en suspicion!_

Jealousy is a passion compounded of love and suspicion, this passion
is the theme or subject of the king's thoughts.--Polixenes,
perhaps, wishes the queen, for her comfort, so much of that _theme_
or subject as is good, but deprecates that which causes misery.
May part of the king's present sentiments comfort the queen, but
away with his suspicion.  This is such meaning as can be picked
out. (1773)

II.i.38 (283,4) [Alack, for lesser knowledge!] That is, _O that my
knowledge were less_.

II.i.50 (284,5) [He hath discover'd my design, and I Remain a pinch'd
thing] [_Revisal_: The sense, I think, is, He hath now discovered
my design, and I am treated as a mere child's baby, a thing
pinched out of clouts, a puppet for them to move and actuate as
they please.] This sense is possible, but many other meanings
might serve as well. (1773)

II.i.100 (286,7)

[No, if I mistake
In these foundations which I build upon,
The center is not big enough to bear
A school-boy's top]

That is, if the proofs which I can offer will not support the opinion
I have formed, no foundation can be trusted.

II.i.104 (286,8) [He, who shall speak for her, is far off guilty, But
that he speaks] [T: far of] It is strange that Mr. Theobald could
not find out that _far_ off _guilty_, signifies, _guilty in a remote
degree_.

II.i.121 (287,9) [this action] The word _action_ is here taken in the
lawyer's sense, for _indictment, charge_, or _accusation_.

II.i.143 (288,2) [land-damn him] Sir T. Hammer interprets, _stop his
urine_.  _Land_ or _lant_ being the old word for _urine_.

_Land-damn_ is probably one of those words which caprice brought
into fashion, and which, after a short time, reason and grammar
drove irrecoverably away. It perhaps meant no more than I will
_rid the country_ of him; _condemn_ him to quit the _land_, (see
1765, II,259,2)

II.i.177 (290,5) [nought for approbation, But only seeing] _Approbation_,
in this place, is put for _proof_.

II.i.185 (290,6) [stuff'd sufficiency] That is, of abilities more
than enough.

II.i.195 (291,7) [Left that the treachery of the two, fled hence, Be
left her to perform] He has before declared, that there is a _plot
against his life and crown_, and that Hermione is _federary_ with
Polixenes and Camillo.

II.iii.5 (294,9) [out of the blank And level of my brain] Beyond the
_aim_ of any attempt that I can make against him.  _Blank_ and _level_
are terms of archery.

II.iii.60 (296,1) [And would by combat make her good, so were I A
man, the worst about you] The _worst_ means only the _lowest_. Were
I the meanest of your servants, I would yet claim the combat
against any accuser.

II.iii.67 (297,2) [A mankind witch:] A _mankind_ woman, is yet used in
the midland counties, for a woman violent, ferocious, and mischievous.
It has the same sense in this passage. Witches are supposed
to be _mankind_, to put off the softness and delicacy of
women, therefore Sir Hugh, in the _Merry Wives of Windsor,_ says, of
a woman inspected to be a witch, _that he does not like when a
woman has a beard._ Of this meaning Mr. Theobald has given examples.

II.iii.77 (298, 5)

[Unvenerable be thy hands, if thou
Tak'st up the princess, by that forced baseness]

Leontes had ordered Antigonus to _take up the bastard,_ Paulina forbids
him to touch the princess under that appellation. _Forced_ is
false, uttered with violence to truth.

II.iii.106 (299, 6) [No yellow in't] _Yellow_ is the colour of jealousy.

II.iii.181 (301, 8) [commend it strangely to some place] Commit to
some place, _as a stranger,_ without more provision.

III.i.2 (302, 9) [Fertile the isle] [Warburton objected to "isle" as
impossible geographically and offered "soil"] Shakespeare is little
careful of geography. There is no need of this emendation in a
play of which the whole plot depends upon a geographical error, by
which Bohemia is supposed to be a maritime country.

III.i.3 (303, 1) [I shall report, For most it caught me] [W: It shames
report, Foremost] Of this emendation I see no reason; the utmost
that can be necessary is, to change, _it caught me,_ to _they caught
me;_ but even this may well enough be omitted.  _It_ may relate to
the whole spectacle.

III.i.14 (304, 2) [The time is worth the use on't] [W: The use is
worth the time on't] Either reading may serve, but neither is very
elegant. _The time is worth the use on't,_ means, the time which we
have spent in visiting Delos, has recompensed us for the trouble
of so spending it.

III.ii.18 (305, 4) [pretence] Is, in this place, taken for a _scheme
laid,_ a _design formed;_ to _pretend_ means to _design,_ in the _Gent.
of Verona._

III.ii.27 (305, 5) [mine integrity, Being counted falsehood, shall, as
I express it, Be so receiv'd] That is, my _virtue_ being accounted
_wickedness,_ my assertion of it will pass but for a _lie. Falsehood_
means both _treachery_ and _lie._

III.ii.43 (306, 6) [For life I prize it As I weigh grief which I
would spare] _Life_ is to me now only _grief,_ and as such only is
considered by me, I would therefore willingly dismiss it.

III.ii.44 (306, 5) [I would spare] To _spare_ any thing is to _let it go.
to quit the possession of it._ (1773)

III.ii.49 (306, 7)

         [Since he came,
With what encounter so uncurrent I
Have strain'd, to appear thus?]

These lines I do not understand; with the license of all editors,
what I cannot understand I suppose unintelligible, and therefore
propose that they may be altered thus,

--------_Since he came,
With what encounter so uncurrent_ have I
_Been_ stain'd _to appear thus_.

At least I think it might be read,

_With what encounter so uncurrent have I
Strain'd to appear thus? If one Jet beyond_. (see 1765,
II,276,5)

III.ii.55 (307,8)

           [I ne'er heard yet,
That any of those bolder vices wanted
Less impudence to gain--say what they did,
Than to perform it first]

It is apparent that according to the proper, at least according to
the present, use of words, _less_ should be _more_, or _wanted_ should
be _had_. But Shakespeare is very uncertain in his use of negatives.
It nay be necessary once to observe, that in our language two negatives
did not originally affirm, but strengthen the negation.
This mode of speech was in time changed, but as the change was
made in opposition to long custom, it proceeded gradually, and
uniformity was not obtained but through an intermediate confusion.

III.ii.82 (308,9) [My life stands in the level of your dreams] To be
_in the level_ is by a metaphor from archery _to be within the reach_.

III.ii.85 (308,1) [As you were past all shame, (Those of your fact
are so) [so past all truth] I do not remember that _fact_ is used any
where absolutely for _guilt_, which must be its sense in this place.
Perhaps we may read,

_Those of your_ pack _are so_.

_Pack_ is a low coarse word well suited to the rest of this royal
invective.

III.ii.107 (309,3) [I have got strength of limit] I know not well how
_strength_ of _limit_ can mean _strength to pass the limits_ of the
childbed chamber, which yet it must mean in this place, unless we read
in a more easy phrase, _strength of_ limb.  _And_ now, &c.

III.ii.123 (310,4) [The flatness of my misery] That is, how low, how
_flat_ I am laid by my calamity.

III.ii.146 (310,5) [Of the queen's speed] Of the _event_ of the queen's
trial:  so we still say, he _sped_ well or ill.

III.ii.173 (311,6) [Does my deeds make the blacker!] This vehement
retraction of Leontes, accompanied with the confession of more
crimes than he was suspected of, is agreeable to our daily experience
of the vicissitudes of violent tempers, and the eruptions
of minds oppressed with guilt.

III.ii.187 (312,7)

[That thou betray'dst Polixenes, 'twas nothing
That did but shew thee, of a fool, inconstant,
And damnable ungrateful]

[T: of a soul] [W: shew thee off, a fool] Poor Mr. Theobald's
courtly remark cannot be thought to deserve much notice. Or.
Warburton too might have spared his sagacity if he had remembered,
that the present reading, by a mode of speech anciently
much used, means only, _It shew'd thee_ first _a fool_, then _inconstant
and ungrateful_.

III.ii.219 (314,9) [I am sorry for't] This it another instance of
the sudden changes incident to vehement and ungovernable minds.

III.iii.1 (315,1) [Thou art perfect then] _Perfect_ is often used by
Shakeapeare for _certain, well assured_, or _well informed_.

III.iii.56 (317,2) [A savage clamour!--Well may I get aboard--This
is the chace] This clamour was the cry of the dogs and hunters;
then seeing the bear, he cries, _this is the chace_. or, the
_animal pursued_.

IV.i.6 (321,9) [and leave the growth untry'd Of that wide gap] [W:
gulf untry'd] This emendation is plausible, but the common reading
is consistent enough with our author's manner, who attends more to
his ideas than to his words. _The growth of the wide gap_, is some-what
irregular; but he means, the _growth_, or progression of the
time which filled up the _gap_ of the story between Perdita's birth
and her sixteenth year. _To leave this growth untried_, is _to leave
the passages of the intermediate years unnoted and unexamined. Untried_
is not, perhaps, the word which he would have chosen, but
which his rhyme required.

IV.i.7 (321,1)

     [since it is in my power
To o'erthrow law, and in one self-born hour
To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was,
Or what is now receiv'd]

The reasoning of _Time_ is not very clear! he seems to mean, that
he who has broke so many laws may now break another; that he who
introduced every thing, may introduce Perdita on her sixteenth
year; and he intreats that he may pass as of old, before any
_order_ or succession of objects, ancient or modern, distinguished
his periods.

IV.i.19 (322,2)

          [Imagine me,
Gentle spectators, that I now may be
In fair Bohemia]

_Time_ is every where alike. I know not whether both sense and
grammar may not dictate,

--_imagine_ we,
Gentle spectators, that_ you _now may be_, &c.
Let _us_ imagine that _you_, who behold these scenes, are now in
Bohemia?

IV.i.29 (322,3) [Is the argument of time] _Argument_ is the same with
_subject_.

IV.i.32 (322,4) [He wishes earnestly you newer may] I believe this
speech of _time_ rather begins the fourth act than concludes the
third.

IV.ii.21 (323,6) [and my profit therein, the heaping friendships]
[W. reaping] I see not that the present reading is nonsense; the
sense of _heaping friendships_ is, though like many other of our
author's, unusual, at least unusual to modern ears, is not very
obscure. _To be more thankful shall be my study; and my profit
therein the heaping friendships._ That is, _I will for the future
be more liberal of recompence, from which I shall receive this
advantage, that as I heap benefits I shall heap friendships, as
I confer favours on thee I shall increase the friendship between us._

IV.ii.35 (324,7) [but I have, missingly, noted] [W. missing him]
[Hammer; musingly noted] I see not how the sense is mended by Sir
T. Hammer's alteration, nor how is it at all changed by Dr. Warburton's.

IV.iii.3 (325,9)

[_Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year;
For the red blood reigns in the winter pale_]

Dr. Thirlby reads, perhaps rightly, certainly with much more
probability, and easiness of construction;

_For the red blood_ runs _in the_ winter _pale._
That is, _for the red blood runs pale in the winter._
Sir T. Banner reads,

_For the red blood reigns_ o'er _the winter's pale._

IV.iii.7 (326,1) [pugging tooth] Sir T. Hammer, and after his,
Dr. Warburton, read, _progging tooth_.  It is certain that _pugging_
is not now understood.  But Dr. Thirlby observes, that this is the cant
of gypsies.

IV.iii.28 (327,7) [Gallows, and knock, are too powerful on the highway;
beating and hanging are terrors to me] The resistance which
a highwayman encounters in the fact, and the punishment which he
suffers on detection, withold me from daring robbery, and determine me
to the silly cheat and petty theft. (1773)

IV.iii.99 (330,4) [abide] To _abide_, here, must signify, to _sojourn_,
to live for a time without a settled habitation.

IV.iv.6 (331,7) [To chide at your extremes, it not becomes me] That
is, your _excesses_, the _extravagance_ of your praises.

IV.iv.8 (331,8) [The gracious mark o' the land] The _object_ of all men's
_notice_ and expectation.

IV.iv.13 (332,9) [sworn, 1 think, To shew myself a glass] [Banner:
swoon] Dr. Thirlby inclines rather to Sir T. Hanmer's emendation,
which certainly makes an easy sense, and is, in my opinion, preferable to
the present reading. But concerning this passage I
know not what to decide.

IV.ii.21 (333,1) [How would he look, to see his work, so noble, Vilely
bound up!] It is impossible for any man to rid his mind of his profession.
The authorship of Shakespeare has supplied him with a metaphor,
which rather than he would lose it, he has put with no great
propriety into the month of a country maid. Thinking of his own
works, his mind passed naturally to the binder. I am glad that he
has no hint at an editor.

IV.ii.76 (335,2) [Grace and remembrance] _Rue_ was called _herb of grace.
Rosemary_ was the emblem of remembrance; I know not why,
unless because it was carried at funerals. (see 1765, II,300,5)

IV.iv.143 (338,6)

       [Each your doing,
So singular in each particular,
Crowns what you're doing in the present deeds]
That is, your manner in each act crowns the act.

IV.iv.155 (338,8) [_Per_. I'll swear for 'em] I fancy this half line is
placed to a wrong person. And that the king begins his speech aside

Pol. _I'll swear for 'em
This is the prettiest_. &c.

IV.iv.164 (339,1) [we stand upon our manners] That is, we are now on
our behaviour.

IV.iv.169 (339,2) [a worthy feeding] I conceive _feeding_ to be a
_pasture_, and a _worthy feeding_ to be a tract of pasturage not
inconsiderable, not unworthy of my daughter's fortune.

IV.iv.204 (340,3) [unbraided wares?] Surely we must read _braided_, for
such are all the _wares_ mentioned in the answer.

IV.iv.212 (341,5) [sleeve-band] Is put very properly by Sir T. Hammer,
it was before _sleeve--hand_.

IV.iv.316 (346,9) [sad] For _serious_. (1773)

IV.iv.330 (346,1) [_That doth utter all mens' wear-a_] To _utter_. To
_bring out_, or _produce_. (1773)

IV.iv.333 (347,3) [all men of hair] [W: i.e. nimble, that leap as if
they rebounded] This is a strange interpretation.  _Errors_, says
Dryden, _flow upon the surface_, but there are men who will fetch
them from the bottom. _Men of hair_, are _hairy men_, or _satyrs_. A
dance of satyrs was no unusual entertainment in the middle ages.
At a great festival celebrated in France, the king and some of the
nobles personated satyrs dressed in close habits, tufted or
shagged all over, to imitate hair. They began a wild dance, and
in the tumult of their merriment one of them went too near a candle
and set fire to his satyr's garb, the flame ran instantly
over the loose tufts, and spread itself to the dress of those
that were next him; a great number of the dancers were cruelly
scorched, being neither able to throw off their coats nor extinguish
them. The king had set himself in the lap of the dutchess
of Burgundy, who threw her robe over him and saved him.

IV.iv.338 (347,4) [bowling] _Bowling_, I believe, is here a term for a
dance of smooth motion with great exertion of agility.

IV.iv.411 (350,6) [dispute his own estate?] Perhaps for _dispute_ we
might read _compute_; but _dispute his estate_ may be the same with
_talk over his affairs_.

IV.iv.441 (351,7) [Not hold thee of our blood, no, not our kin, Far
than Deucalion off] I think for _far than_ we should read _far as_.
We will not hold thee of our kin even so far off as Deucalion the
common ancestor of all.

IV.iv.493 (354,2) [and by my fancy] It must be remembered that _fancy_
in this author very often, as in this place, means _love_.

IV.iv.551 (356,3) [Ourselves to be the slaves of chance, and flies]
As _chance_ has driven me to these extremities, so I commit myself
to _chance_ to be conducted through them.

IV.iv.613 (359,6) [as if my trinkets had been hallowed] This alludes
to beads often sold by the Romanists, as made particularly efficacious
by the touch of some relick.

IV.iv.651 (360,7) [boot] that is, _something over and above_, or, as
we now say, _something to boot_.

IV.iv.734 (362,9) [pedler's excrement] Is pedler's beard, (see 1765,
II,323,2)

IV.iv.748 (363,1) [therefore they do not give us the lye] [W: do give]
The meaning is, they are _paid_ for lying, therefore they do not give
us the lye, they _sell_ it us. (1773)

IV.iv.768 (363,2) [Advocate's the court-word for a pheasant] This satire,
or this pleasantry, I confess myself not well to understand.

IV.iv.779 (364,3) [A great man, I'll warrant; I know, by the picking
on's teeth] It seems, that to pick the teeth was, at this time, a
mark of some pretension to greatness or elegance.  So the Bastard
in _King John_, speaking of the traveller, says,

_He and_ his pick-tooth _at my worship's mess_.

IV.iv.816 (365,4) [the hottest day prognostication proclaims] That is,
_the hottest day foretold in the almanack_.

V.i.14 (368,7) [Or, from the All that are, took something good] This
is a favourite thought; it was bestowed on Miranda and Rosalind
before.

V.i,19 (368,8) [What were more holy, Than to rejoice, the former
queen is well] [W: rejoice the...queen? This will.] This emendation
is one of those of which many may be made; It is such as we
may wish the authour had chosen, but which we cannot prove that
he did chuse; the reasons for it are plausible, but not cogent.

V.i.58 (370,9) [on this stage, (Where we offend her now)] [The
offenders now appear] The Revisal reads,

_Were we offenders_ now----

very reasonably. (1773)

V.i.74 (371,1) [Affront his eye] _To affront_, is _to meet_.

V.i.98 (372,2) [Sir, you yourself Have said, and writ so] The reader
must observe, that _so_ relates not to what precedes, but
to what follows that, _she had not been'_----_equall'd_.

V.i.159 (374, 3) [whose daughter His tears proclaim'd his, parting with
her] This is very ungrammatical and obscure. We aay better read,

----_whose daughter
His tears proclaim'd_ her _parting with her_.

The prince first tells that the lady came _from Lybia_. the king
interrupting him, says, _from Smalus; from him_, says the prince,
_whose tears, at parting, shewed her to be his daughter_.

V.i.214 (376, 4) [Your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty]
[W. in birth] _Worth_ is as proper as _birth. Worth_ signifies any kind
of _worthiness_, and among others that of high descent. The King
means that he is sorry the prince's choice is not in other respects
as worthy of him as in beauty.

V.ii.105 (380, 5) [that rare Italian meter, Jolio Romano] [Theobald
praised the passage but called it an anachronism] Poor Theobald's
eucomium of this passage is not very happily conceired or expressed, nor
is the passage of any eminent excellence; yet a little candour will
clear Shakespeare from part of the impropriety imputed to him. By
_eternity_ he means only i_mmortality_, or that part of eternity which
is to come; so we talk of _eternal_ renown and _eternal_ infamy.
_Immortality_ may subsist without _divinity_, and therefore the meaning
only is, that if Julio could always continue his labours, he would
mimick nature.

V.ii.107 (381, 6) [would beguile nature of her custom] That is, _of her
trade,_--would draw her customers from her.

V.ii.118 (381, 7) [Who would be thence, that has the benefit of access?]
It was, I suppose, only to spare his own labour that the poet put
this whole scene into narrative, for though part of the transaction
was already known to the audience, and therefore could not properly
be shewn again, yet the two kings might have met upon the stage,
and after the examination of the old shepherd, the young lady might
have been recognised in sight of the spectators.

V.ii.173 (383, 8) [franklins say it] _Franklin_ is a _freeholder_,
or _yeoman_, a man above a _Villain_, but not a _gentleman_.

V.ii.179 (383 ,9) [tall fellow] _Tall_, in that time, was the word used
for _stout_.

V.iii.17 (384,1) [therefore I keep it Lonely, apart] [Hammer: lovely]
I am yet inclined to _lonely_, which in the old angular writing cannot
be distinguished from lovely. To say, that _I keep it alone,
separate from the rest_, is a pleonasm which scarcely any nicety
declines.

V.iii.46 (385,2) [Oh, patience] That is, _Stay a while, be not go eager_.

V.iii.56 (386,3)

        [Indeed, my lord,
If I had thought, the sight of my poor image
Would thus have wrought you, (for the stone is mine)
I'd not have shew'd it]

[Tyrwhitt: for the stone i' th' mine] To change an accurate expression
for an expression confessedly not accurate, has somewhat
of retrogradation. (1773)

V.iii.131 (389,6) [You precious winners all] You who by this discovery
have _gained_ what you desired may join in festivity, in which I,
who have lost what never can be recovered, can have no part.

(300) General Observation, Of this play no edition is known published
before the folio of 1623.

This play, as Dr. Warburton justly observes, is, with all its
absurdities, very entertaining.  The character of Antolycus is
very naturally conceived, and strongly represented, (see 1765, II, 349)





TABLE  OF  CONTENTS

General Introduction
Introduction on Comedies
Notes to _The Tempest
The Two Gentlemen of Verona
The Merry Wives of Windsor
Measure for Measure
The Comedy of Errors
Much Ado About Nothing
Love's Labour's Lost
A Midsummer-Night's Dream
The Merchant of Venice
As You Like It
The Taming of the Shrew
All's Well that Ends Well
Twelfth-Night
The Winter's Tale





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Johnson's Notes to Shakespeare Vol. I
Comedies, by Samuel Johnson





Produced by Charles Franks, Christopher Lund
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team




JACK OF THE PONY EXPRESS

Or

The Young Rider of the Mountain Trails


By

FRANK V. WEBSTER




CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I. JACK IN THE SADDLE

II. POSTMISTRESS JENNIE

III. A NARROW ESCAPE

IV. IMPORTANT LETTERS

V. JUST IN TIME

VI. THE SECRET MINE

VII. THE STRANGERS AGAIN

VIII. A NIGHT ATTACK IX. IN BONDS

X. A QUEER DISCOVERY

XI. DUMMY LETTERS

XII. A RIDE FOR LIFE

XIII. THE INSPECTOR

XIV. THE CHASE

XV. A CAUTION

XVI. SUNGER GOES LAME

XVII. AN INVITATION DECLINED

XVIII. A QUEER FEELING

XIX A DESPERATE RIDE

XX. AT GOLDEN CROSSING

XXI. THE ARGENT LETTERS

XXII. THE MASKED MAN

XXIII. THE ESCAPE

XXIV. JACK'S IDEA

XXV. JACK'S TRICK--CONCLUSION




CHAPTER I


JACK IN THE SADDLE

"Your father is a little late to-night, isn't he Jack?"

"Yes, Mrs. Watson, he should have been here a half-hour ago, and he would,
too, if he had ridden Sunger instead of his own horse."

"You think a lot of that pony of yours, don't you, Jack?" and a
motherly-looking woman came to the doorway of a small cottage and peered
up the mountain trail, which ran in front of the building. Out on the
trail itself stood a tall, bronzed lad, who was, in fact, about seventeen
years of age, but whose robust frame and athletic build made him appear
several years older.

"Yes, Mrs. Watson," the boy answered with a smile, "I do think a lot of
Sunger, and he's worth it, too."

"Yes, I guess he is. And he can travel swiftly, too. My goodness! The way
you sometimes clatter past my house makes me think you'll sure have an
accident. Sometimes I'm so nervous I can't look at you."

"Sunger is pretty sure-footed, even on worse mountain trails than the one
from Rainbow Ridge to Golden Crossing," answered Jack with a laugh, that
showed his white, even teeth, which formed a strange contrast to his tanned
face.

"Sunger," repeated Mrs. Watson, musingly. "What an odd name. I often wonder
how you came to call him that."

"It isn't his real name," explained Jack, as he gave another look up the
trail over which the rays of the declining sun were shining, and then
walked up to the porch, where he sat down. "The pony was once owned by a
Mexican miner, and he named him something in Spanish which meant that the
little horse could go so fast that he dodged the sun. Sundodger was what
the name would be in English, I suppose, and after I bought him that's what
I called him.

"But Sundodger is too much of a mouthful when one's in a hurry," and Jack
laughed at his idea, "so," he went on, "I shortened it to Sunger, which
does just as well."

"Yes, as long as he knows it," agreed Mrs. Watson. "But I guess, Jack, I
had better be going, I did think I'd wait until your father came, and put
the supper on for you both, but he's so late now--"

"Yes, Mrs. Watson, don't wait," interrupted Jack. "I don't know what to
make of dad's being so late. But we're used to getting our own meals, so
you needn't worry. We'll get along all right."

"Oh, I know you will. For two men--for you are getting so big I shall have
to call you a man," and she smiled at him. "For two men you really get
along very well indeed."

"Yes, I'm getting to be something of a cook myself," admitted the lad. "But
I can't quite equal your biscuits yet, and there's no use saying I can.
However, you baked a pretty good batch this afternoon, and dad sure will be
pleased when he sees 'em. I wish he'd come while they're hot though," and
once more Jack Bailey arose and went out to peer up the trail. He listened
intently, but his sharp senses caught no sound of clattering hoofs, nor
sight of a horseman coming down the slope, a good view of which could be
had from in front of the house that stood on a bend in the road.

"Well, then, I'll be getting along," Mrs. Watson resumed, as she threw a
shawl over her shoulders, for, though the day had been warm, there was a
coolness in the mountain air with the coming of night. "Everything is all
ready to dish-up" went on the motherly-looking woman, as she went out of
the front gate, "The chicken is hot on the back of the stove."

"Oh, we'll make out all right, thank you," called Jack after her, as she
started down the trail. Mrs. Watson lived about a quarter of a mile away.
Her husband was a miner, and she had a grown daughter, so it was quite
convenient for Mrs. Watson to come over twice a week, or oftener on
occasions, and do the housework in the cottage where Mr. Peter Bailey and
his son Jack lived. Mrs. Watson would do the sweeping, dusting and as much
cooking as she had time for, and then go back to her own home.

Jack's mother was dead, and he and his father had managed for some years
without the services of a housekeeper. Mr. Bailey was a pony express rider,
carrying the mail and small express packages between the settlements of
Rainbow Ridge and Golden Crossing. Mr. Bailey and Jack lived on the
outskirts of Rainbow Ridge.

This was in the Rocky Mountain country of one of our western states, and
the trails were so wild and winding, and, for that matter, so unsafe, that
it was out of the question to use a mail or stage coach between the two
places.

From Rainbow Ridge, however, there was a stage route going east, which took
the mail and express matter as it was brought in by Mr. Bailey. And from
Golden Crossing going west the same arrangement was made. Golden Crossing
was a settlement on the banks of the Ponto River, a small enough stream in
ordinary times, but which was wild and dangerous during heavy rains or
freshets.

So the pony express, as run by Mr. Bailey, was the only regular means of
communication between Golden Crossing and Rainbow Ridge. It was of
importance, too, for often valuable mail and packages went through, the
route being shorter and quicker than by a roundabout stage line.

When Mrs. Watson was out of sight around a bend in the trail, Jack went
into the cottage. It really was a cottage, though when Mr. Bailey first
brought his family to the West it had been but a cabin, or shack. But Mr.
Bailey and his wife had labored hard to make it more of a "home," and they
had succeeded very well. Then came the sad occasion of Mrs. Bailey's
illness and death, and for a time life had seemed very hard to Jack and his
father.

The latter had been interested in mines, but found the work too difficult
with his failing health, so he had secured the pony express contract, which
he had carried on now for several years.

"It certainly is a shame to have this fine supper spoil," mused Jack, as he
lifted the cover from a pot of chicken, and glanced at the pile of browned
biscuit in the warming oven.

"I can't understand what makes dad so late," he went on. "Of course, the
mail from the Golden Crossing office might not have been ready for him to
take. It's been pretty heavy of late, and is almost more than Aunt Matilda
can handle. Though I suppose Jennie gives her a hand now and then," and as
he said that Jack looked at the photograph on the mantel of an attractive
girl, who seemed to smile at him. Jack looked cautiously around the room,
and then raised a hand to his lips and threw a kiss from the tips of his
fingers at the picture.

This done he blushed--but you would not have known it, he was so bronzed by
the sun and the wind. Mrs. Matilda Blake was a distant relative of Mr.
Bailey's, and Jack called her "Aunt Matilda," though she really did not
bear that relationship to him. She was a widow, and she and her only
daughter, Jennie, a girl of about sixteen, lived in Golden Crossing, where
Mrs. Blake was postmistress. Jack and Jennie were the best of friends.

"Well, if dad doesn't come pretty soon, I'm going to eat," decided Jack.
"He won't mind, I'm sure. But I would like to know what's keeping him. I
hope he hasn't had any accident. His pony is sure-footed, I know, but I'd
feel better if he had Sunger."

Jack was plainly nervous--that is as nervous as a young, healthy lad can
be. He went outside again, and walked a little way back along the trail
over which his father would come. But the trail seemed deserted. The Bailey
cottage was in a rather lonely location, there being no other habitation in
sight.

There were other houses not far away, and a number in the town, but because
of the winding nature of the trail, and the ruggedness of the mountains,
they could not be seen from where Jack stood.

As the lad was about to turn back and again enter the cottage with the
determination to eat his supper, he heard something which caused him to
start.

"Here he comes!" he exclaimed. "But he's walking his horse! That's queer!
Something must have happened!"

Speed was one of the prime requisites of the pony express. The men who rode
the routes over plains and mountain trails secured the speediest horses or
ponies possible. Their life, when in the saddle, was a continual rush, for
the mail and express matter must go through as quickly as possible, and
where no steam and railroads were available recourse was had to horseflesh.
And knowing the value of speed Jack wondered when he heard the approach of
a horse at a walking pace.

Mr. Bailey was supposed to arrive at Rainbow Ridge in time to deliver his
express and mail matter to the night stage coach going east, and the hour
for its leaving had passed some time since. Of course, the stage would wait
for the pony express, but this meant a delay all along the rest of the
route.

"Something sure must have happened!" said Jack to himself. "I'll go to meet
dad."

He set off on foot, but came running back.

"I'll get Sunger," he told himself, speaking aloud, a habit engendered by
the lonliness of the mountains. "He's quite a way off yet, but Sunger will
make short work of the distance."

Though the sound of the approaching footsteps of the horse of the pony
express rider could be plainly heard by Jack, so clear and resonant was the
mountain air, he realized that his father had yet nearly half a mile to
travel.

Leaping to the saddle of his pony, and patting the animal lovingly on the
neck, Jack set off once more. He went quickly, for Sunger was fresh and
eager.

In a few minutes Jack turned at a place where the trail followed a great
rocky ledge, and in front of him, almost collapsed in the saddle was a man.
He seemed to sit on his horse only by a great effort, and on his face was a
drawn look of pain.

"Why, Dad!" cried Jack. "What's the matter? Has anything happened? Did they
hold up the mail?"

"No, the mail and other stuff is all right," was the answer, broken by an
exclamation of pain. "But I'm all in, Jack. I'm afraid I'm going to be
quite ill. It was all I could do to ride the last few miles, but I wouldn't
give in."

Jack was at his father's side in an instant.

"Get on Sunger," he urged. "He's easier for you to ride. Let me help you.
What is the trouble? How did it happen?"

"I don't know, Jack, my boy. But I won't change horses. I can keep on until
I get to the cabin. Here, you take the mail and express and ride on with it
to the stage. I'll keep on toward home. Come back as soon as you can, and
you--you'd better bring the doctor with you!" he faltered.




CHAPTER II


POSTMISTRESS JENNIE

For a moment Jack Bailey did not know what to do. He looked at his father,
who was evidently quite ill and suffering much pain. Then the lad glanced
at the bags of mail and small express matter which lay over the saddle in
front of Mr. Bailey.

"Take the mail, Jack, my boy!" the pony express rider exclaimed, with an
effort. "Take the mail, so the stage can get off. I'm late now, but I
couldn't make the trail any faster. Get the mail through, and then stop and
bring a doctor back with you if he'll come."

"But I can't go away and leave you like this, Dad!"

"You must, Jack!"

"But you're too ill!"

"That can't be helped. The mail and express must go through on time if I'm
to keep the contract. And I certainly don't want to lose it. I'll manage to
get to the cottage. Once there, I can sit down, and if I get a cup of hot
tea I may feel better. It seems to be acute indigestion, though I don't
remember eating anything that didn't agree with me. But ride on, Jack. And
don't worry. I'll get to the cottage all right and be there when you come
back."

"All right, Dad! I'll do it. But I sure do hate to leave you like this!"

"It's better than having the mail delayed. Ride on. Explain to Jed Monty
how it is. I think Jed takes the stage out to-night."

"Yes, he does. I'll tell him."

Jack quickly transferred to his own saddle the bags of mail and express
matter. Mr. Bailey seemed easier now, though there was still that look of
pain on his face.

"Come on, Sunger," called the lad to his pony. "We've got to make time!"

The intelligent and beautiful animal whinnied as if he understood. Then,
with a fond and anxious look at his father, Jack wheeled about and set off
down the trail at a gallop, Mr. Bailey going on more slowly, for every
motion of his horse gave him pain.

Jack was soon out of sight around a bend of the trail. He flashed past his
cottage, and thought with satisfaction that there was hot water on the
range, so his father could make himself a cup of tea.

Jack paused long enough at Mrs. Watson's cabin to tell her what was the
matter, and to inform her that he was taking the mail over the last mile of
the route into town.

"Your father ill!" exclaimed Mrs. Watson. "I'll go right over there, Jack,
and look after him."

"I wish you would. It will he awful good of you."

"Of course I'll go. Mary can look after things here," and she hurried into
the house to get ready for her second trip that day to the Bailey cottage.

Jack galloped on, trusting to the sure-footedness of his pony to avoid the
dangers of the rough mountain trail. And Sunger justified the confidence
reposed in him.

"Hello! We've been wondering what kept you! Why, it's Jack!" exclaimed Jed
Monty, the grizzled stage driver, as the lad galloped up to the Mansion
Hotel, whence the start for the east was made.

"Sorry to be late, but dad's taken sick!" cried Jack, as he flung the bags
to the driver.

"Sick, eh? That's too bad. Well, I guess I can make up the lost time.
Haven't much of a load on to-night."

The stage was all ready to start, the few passengers having been
impatiently waiting.

"Pile in!" cried Jed, and with a crack of his long whip he sent the four
horses off at a gallop.

Jack did not linger, but, wheeling his pony, set off for the doctor's
office, hoping he would find the physician in. He was fortunate in this
respect, and Dr. Brown promised to come at once. Jack did not wait for him,
however, but hastened back to the cottage.

There he found that Mrs. Watson had made his father some hot tea, which had
relieved him somewhat. The look of pain was not so apparent now.

"The doctor will be here right away," Jack reported. "Now tell me how it
happened, Dad. We were quite worried about you."

"Indeed we were, when you didn't come in on time, as you nearly always do,"
said Mrs. Watson.

"I can't tell just how it did happen," said the pony express rider, "but I
was taken with a sharp and sudden pain soon after leaving Golden Crossing.
I'd have turned back then, and gotten some one else to ride the route for
me, but I knew there were important letters in the mail, and it had to come
through. So I kept on, hoping I would get better. But I grew worse, and I
had to slow up. I thought I'd never get here! But I did." And he shut his
lips grimly.

Pony express riders have to be made of stern stuff and they have to keep on
their routes in rain or shine, calm or storm; and often when it is torture
to sit in the saddle on a galloping horse.

"You'd better get your supper, Jack," advised Mrs. Watson.

"No, I don't feel like eating," the lad objected.

"Yes, you'd better, son," said his father. "There's no telling what you may
have to do tonight, and it is possible you will have to ride for me
to-morrow, though I hope I'll be able. But eat, and keep up your strength."

This was good advice, and Jack realized it. So he sat down to the meal
which Mrs. Watson had prepared as a finish to her housekeeping work earlier
that day. Jack had scarcely finished when Dr. Brown came in, and spent some
time ministering to Mr. Bailey.

The pony express rider felt much relieved after he had been given some
quieting medicine, and as Dr. Brown was about to leave Mr. Bailey asked:

"Shall I be able to ride the route to-morrow?"

The physician shook his head.

"No, indeed!" he exclaimed. "I'm sorry to have to tell you that you have a
severe illness. I'm afraid you're going to be laid up for several weeks, if
not longer. You have been neglecting yourself too long, and you've been
worrying haven't you?"

"Well, yes, I have," admitted Mr. Bailey.

"Oh, Dad! worrying?" cried Jack. "Is it about that old Harrington matter?"

"Yes, Jack, it is. I can't get that off my mind."

"Why, every one knows that wasn't your fault!" exclaimed Dr. Brown.

"Of course," chimed in Mrs. Watson.

"Well I can't help thinking that the Harrington crowd believes I was to
blame," went on the pony express rider. "But I never let that letter get
away from me. It never left my bag from the time it was put in until I
delivered it. But I can't prove that, and I can't help worrying over what
people think of me."

"You're foolish to let a thing like that annoy you," said Dr. Brown.
"That's what has helped to make you ill. Now you must take a good rest.
I'll be in to see you to-morrow."

"But what about the trail, Doctor? Some one will have to carry the mail."

"You can't!" exclaimed the physician, with decision. "That's certain!"

"I will, Dad, of course!" cried Jack. "Who has a better right than I?"

"Well, I'd like to see you do it, Jack, for I'd be sure the mail and
express would be safe with you and Sunger," said the man. "But I don't know
that the company will consent. You're not of age--"

"I couldn't ride any better if I were twenty-one than I can now,"
interrupted Jack. "I'll go to see Mr. Perkfeld the first thing in the
morning. I'll meet the early stage and make the trip to Golden Crossing.
Are they all well there?" he asked, trying to make his voice sound
indifferent.

"Pretty well," answered his father. "Aunt Matilda is ailing a little, but
Jennie is a big help. She handles all the mail alone now. Well, Jack, I
guess it's the only thing to do. You see Perkfeld in the morning, and
explain things. The only thing I'm afraid of is that he may make the
Harrington matter an excuse to take the contract away from me. There are
several who want to ride the trail in my place. But do the best you can."

Amos Perkfeld was the president, as well as general manager of several
stage and pony express lines. He controlled the one between Golden Crossing
and Rainbow Ridge, and it was he who had engaged Mr. Bailey.

The "Harrington matter" had taken place some time before. Tyler Harrington
was an influential mine owner, and an important letter had been sent to him
by one of his agents. This letter was carried by Mr. Bailey, and, in some
manner, the contents of it became known to interests opposed to Mr.
Harrington and his associates. In this way they lost in a mining deal.

While there were no open accusations, there had been hints on the part of
the Harrington interests that the pony express rider might have been bribed
to let some one open and read the letter on the journey over the mountains.
Of course, Mr. Bailey had done nothing of the kind, and he had no idea how
the contents of the letter became known. He felt distressed because he was
suspected, and worried greatly over the matter. But he could not disprove
the unfounded suspicion against him.

As he had admitted, he had been worrying more than usual lately over the
affair, and this, with a general run-down condition, and the hardships of
his calling, had made him ill.

Mrs. Watson offered to stay all night and help look after Mr. Bailey, and
Jack was glad to have her do so. The sick man was a little better in the
morning, but far from being able to ride the mail route.

So Jack saddled Sunger and went into town to meet the early morning stage
which arrived every other day with mail and express matter to be taken to
Golden Crossing and points beyond. The pony express was a connecting line
between the two settlements.

To Jack's relief Mr. Perkfeld made no objection to the young man's taking
his father's place.

"I can't say just how long it will last," went on the manager, "but we'll
make it a temporary arrangement, anyhow. You've ridden the route before,
you say?"

"Yes, twice, when father was laid up with slight ailments."

"Well, do the best you can. And another matter. There are some valuable
letters--But never mind. I'll speak about them later," and Mr. Perkfeld
turned away. Jack wondered what he had been about to say.

"If there are any valuable letters to be carried," mused the young rider,
"I hope none of them gets lost, or that the contents become known. I'll
have to be careful."

He was given the bags of mail and light express matter from the stage as
soon as it rumbled in, and then Jack set off over the mountain trail to go
to Golden Crossing. The trip would take about four hours, and if the other
mail matter was ready he would come back with it, making the round trip in
about eight or nine hours.

But sometimes there were delays at one end or the other, for accidents
happened to the stages once in a while. There had been hold-ups, too, but
not since Mr. Bailey had taken charge.

If the stage at Golden Crossing was not on time the pony express rider had
to wait for it, sometimes all night. On such occasions Mr. Bailey had
stayed with his relative, Mrs. Blake, and Jack reasoned that he could do
the same thing. He caught himself almost wishing that the stage might be
late this time, as it would give him a chance for a long visit with his
"cousin" Jennie.

On his way past his cottage Jack stopped to see how his father was, and
also to report that he had been commissioned, at least temporarily, to
carry the mail.

Jack found his father better. Mrs. Watson said she thought it would be best
if he could be moved down to her house, and both Jack and Mr. Bailey agreed
to this, Dr. Brown sanctioning the suggestion.

"I can look after him better then," said the housekeeper, "and my daughter
can help me. And then, too, Jack, if you're delayed and have to be away all
night, you'll know that he's being well cared for."

"Yes, it will be best," Jack agreed. And so, as he rode off, preparations
were made to transfer Mr. Bailey to the other place.

"Now, Sunger, we'll show 'em what we can do when we carry the mail!"
exclaimed Jack, as his faithful pony started off along the mountain trail
again.

Nothing of moment occurred on that ride. Jack half-wished that he might be
called upon to defend the mail and express from bandits. He was armed, and
he dwelt on the thought of what a hero he might prove himself to be.

But everything was very prosaic. His pony did not even slip and fall, but
came through on schedule time, or, rather, a little ahead of it, for Jack
urged Sunger on.

"Oh, it's you, is it, Jack!" exclaimed Jennie Blake, as our hero rode up to
the post office with the bags. "Why is this? Where's your father?"

"My father is ill. But aren't you glad to see me?"

"Oh, yes, of course!" she answered, and then she seemed obliged to look
down very closely at some mail matter she was sorting.

"The in-stage will be five hours late," she said. "A messenger rode in to
say that one of the horses died, and he had to take back another. So you'll
have to stay over, Jack."

"That's good!" he exclaimed.

"What? Good that a poor horse died?"

"Oh, I don't mean that. But--er--say, what's that big official-looking
envelope addressed to you? From Washington, too, and without a stamp," and
Jack looked over the girl's shoulder.

"Oh, official letters from the post office department don't require
stamps."

"What are you getting official letters for?" Jack wanted to know.

"Why, didn't I tell you?" Jennie asked with a teasing laugh. "I'm going to
be postmistress at Golden Crossing from now on. That's my official
appointment! Aren't you going to congratulate me?" and she looked archly at
Jack and smiled.




CHAPTER III


A NARROW ESCAPE

"Say, Jennie, what is this; a joke?" asked Jack, as he leaned up against
the table on which was piled the mail and some express matter, for the post
office was also used as the headquarters of the pony express company and
stage line.

"A joke? The idea! How dare you!" and the young lady appeared to be very
indignant, indeed. "A joke! I guess not! Look at that, Mr. Jack Bailey,"
and she flourished in front of him an important-looking document whereon
her name could be discerned in large letters.

"Hum! So you are really postmistress of Golden Crossing," remarked Jack.
"Is your mother--"

"Oh, it isn't anything serious," was the quick answer. "But we are going to
make certain, changes, and--"

"Changes!" cried Jack, in some surprise. "I hope you aren't thinking of
going away!"

"Oh, no indeed!" Jennie answered. "We like it too well here. But mother has
a chance to do some sewing, at which she can make some much-needed money,
and she realized that she would be too busy at that to look after the post
office properly. So I said I'd apply for the place. I know all about the
work," Jennie went on, "for whenever mother went away I used to look after
the mail. Tim does the heavy work, lifting the pouches and packages and all
that," and she indicated a red-haired and freckled lad named Timothy
Mullane, a genial Irish chap, who did odd jobs around the post office, and
in the settlement of Golden Crossing.

"So, with Tim to help me, I felt that I might just as well be the
full-fledged postmistress," the girl went on. "As soon as mother had
arranged to do this sewing I applied for the place to the President--"

"To the President--in Washington?" cried Jack, in surprise.

"Well, I wrote to the President, though I don't suppose he ever saw my
letter," Jennie said. "I thought he appointed all postmasters and
postmistresses. But I had an answer from some official of the post office
department, and I received the appointment!" she laughed in conclusion.

"So after this, Mr. Jack Bailey, of the pony express, you'll get the mail
from me and deliver it to me."

"No greater pleasure, I'm sure," Jack answered with a low bow, and he also
laughed. "When did all this happen?" he asked.

"The letter came yesterday," Jennie answered.

"And I received my temporary appointment this morning," Jack said. "You
didn't beat me by very much, Jennie! Shake!" and with true western good
fellowship, Jack held out his hand, meeting the warm clasp of the pretty
and smiling girl.

The two young persons found much to talk about. Jennie was sorry to hear of
the illness of "Uncle Pete," as she called him, and when her mother came in
to greet Jack, Mrs. Blake had to hear the whole story over again.

Mrs. Blake was a widow, whose husband had been killed in a mining accident.
She was left with Jennie, then a little girl, to bring up, and friends
secured for her the place as postmistress of Golden Crossing. She managed
to make a living from the money received in this way, and from the sewing
she was able to do for the residents of the settlement.

And now, as she explained to Jack, her needlework would take up much of her
time, so she and Jennie planned that the latter should be made postmistress
so that she could act officially when her mother was not on hand.

"Of course, I'll help her, Jack," Mrs. Blake said, "for it isn't easy for a
young girl to have to do this work."

"And I'll help, too!" cried the young pony express rider.

"I knew you would, Cousin Jack!" Jennie exclaimed, clapping her hands. "But
now we must talk business. Let me have your slips to sign, and here is a
registered letter that you'd better put in an inside pocket where the stage
robbers won't find it," and she laughed merrily at her joke.

There was considerable routine work attached to the post office and to the
pony express route, and for some time Jack and Jennie were busy over this.
The mail and express matter which Jack had brought in on the back of his
pony, Sunger, had already been sent off on the outgoing stage.

"Will you ride back to-night, after the other stage comes in, or will you
stay here?" asked Mrs. Blake.

"I guess I'll stay," Jack said. "But I can go back as far as Painted Post,"
naming a mountain settlement a few miles east of Golden Crossing. "I
stopped there on my way here, and Harry Ward said he was going to ride in
to Rainbow Ridge to a dance to-night. I can have him take a message for me,
saying the mail will be late. And he can also tell my father that I'll stay
over night, and be in early to-morrow morning."

"That would be a good idea," said Mrs. Blake. "We'll try and make you
comfortable, Jack."

"Oh, you won't have to try very hard," he laughed. Jennie blushed and
smiled, and Mrs. Blake looked wise.

Jack spent that afternoon helping Jennie straighten up her post office, for
she had determined on a new arrangement of tables and desks, which Mrs.
Blake had never had time to settle on.

"It's your post office, Jennie," her mother remarked. "Do just as you
please as far as the regulations permit."

The in-coming mail was later than had been reported, and did not arrive
until nearly dark. In such cases, when a night trip would be necessary over
the mountain trail between Golden Crossing and Rainbow Ridge, the pony
express rider was permitted to postpone his trip until the next day. The
trail was rather dangerous at night, though on occasions, when there had
been a bright moon and some important letters and express packages had come
in, Mr. Bailey made the night trip. Jack had done so once, but he did not
greatly care to do so again.

"But if there were any need of it I'd do it now," he said, though he would
have regretted leaving Jennie, with the prospect of a pleasant evening in
her company.

However, as it happened, there was nothing of such importance that it could
not wait over until the next day, so Jack did not have to ride away. He put
up his pony in the express stable, and he and Jennie spent a pleasant
evening together.

Jack was a little worried about his father, and made an early start the
next morning, carrying the mail and expressage. He made a quick trip and
was relieved, on stopping off for a moment at the Watson cabin, to find
that his father had passed a fairly comfortable night, and was considerably
better.

"But he can't ride the trail yet," said Mrs. Watson.

"And I don't intend to let him!" exclaimed Jack. "I'm going to be the pony
rider for a while."

Dr. Brown confirmed what he had at first said--that Mr. Bailey would be ill
for a long time, and when this had become known Jack at once made
arrangements to be permanently named as rider between Rainbow Ridge and
Golden Crossing. Mr. Perkfeld agreed to this, but, most unexpectedly, some
opposition developed among the members of the express firm. It appeared
that one of the stockholders wanted the place of express rider for a
relative of his. There were several others who wanted the place, and there
was quite a scramble for it.

But Jack really had the most logical claim to it, and, as Mr. Perkfeld was
able to make the appointment, at least for the time being, it came to Jack.

But there was bitter feeling against him on the part of some unscrupulous
men who wanted the place, for it paid well and carried some privileges. It
was also an honor.

"You want to watch yourself, son," said Mr. Bailey, rather weakly, to Jack
one day, before the lad was about to set out on his ride to Golden
Crossing. "Watch yourself, for there is no telling what tricks some of
those fellows may be up to."

"Tricks, Dad? What do you mean?" asked Jack in wonder.

"Well, I mean they might try to do something to discredit you. Try to make
you late with the mail, or even have you lose a valuable letter or package.
They might think, if you failed to deliver promptly, you would lose the
place, and they'd have a chance. So be careful. Hold on to it, for I'll
need it when I get well again. My illness is going to cost a pile of
money."

"Don't you worry about that Dad!" exclaimed the young mountain trail rider.
"I'll watch out, and they won't catch me napping!"

He rode off up the road, followed by the fond looks of his father.

"He's a good boy," murmured Mr. Bailey, "A good boy!"

Once again the in-stage to Golden Crossing was late, but as Jack was told
by Jennie on his arrival at her post office that several important pieces
of mail were expected, he decided to ride back with the pouches, even if it
was after dark.

"There's half a moon," he said, "and I know the trail like a book. I'll
make a night ride of it."

While waiting for the stage to come in Jack remained about the post office.
Among those who came in for mail was Jake Tantrell, one of the men who had
tried unsuccessfully to get Jack's place.

"Goin' back to-night?" he inquired casually.

"Yes," Jack answered. "Anything you want carried?"

"No," was the surly answer. "An' if I had I wouldn't trust a kid like you
with it! It's a man's job to ride pony express, an' I'm surprised that they
let you have the place."

"Oh, if that's the way you feel about it, I don't want to take any of your
stuff," snapped Jack, filled with indignation. "But I've made good so far,
and I expect to keep on."

"Huh! Maybe you will, an' maybe you won't!" was the snarling retort.

It was quite dark when Jack finally started with the mail. He also had
several express packages, one of which was securely sealed, indicating that
it contained valuables.

"Guess I'll stow that away in an inside pocket," Jack said to himself, and
he suited the action to the words.

The first part of the trail leading out from Golden Crossing was not
especially bad, and Jack ambled along it slowly enough. About two miles out
from the settlement he had to cross, on a rather frail wooden bridge, a
rushing mountain stream.

As Jack neared the middle of the bridge he felt a plank suddenly give way
with the pony. In an instant he clapped his heels to the side of the horse,
and slapped him sharply on the flank.

Sunger sprang forward, and only just in time, for in another second he
would have stepped through a hole in the bridge where a plank had fallen
off into the stream below. And had the pony fallen Jack would probably have
been thrown over the bridge railing into the water.




CHAPTER IV


IMPORTANT LETTERS

"Whoa! Steady old boy! Easy now!"

Thus Jack exclaimed, as he leaped from the Saddle and held the reins
lightly to restrain Sunger.

The pony snorted, whinnied, and, after prancing about a few moments, stood
still.

"That's better!" commented Jack. "Now let's see what happened."

There was, as Jack said, "half a moon," and by the light of this he was
able to see, as he glanced over the part of the bridge he had traversed, a
place where a plank had fallen out. A gap was left--a gap wide enough to
have allowed a horse's leg to slip through, with disastrous results to
animal and rider.

"Well, Sunger, old boy," went on Jack, "did we do that; did it just happen
of itself; or was it done on purpose?"

For, in a second's flash, there had come to him his father's warning.

"Well, if it's some one after my job, it's a mean trick they have played in
trying to get it," mused Jack, aloud. "I wouldn't so much mind for myself,
for I guess I could have swum out all right. But I guess you'd have been
pretty well banged up, old boy," and he patted his pony, which now had
gotten over his first fright.

Jack, whose wildly-beating heart had now somewhat calmed itself, stood
beside his faithful pony and considered what his next move had best be.
Among other thoughts was the one that he must, in some way, repair the
bridge so that any one coming after him would not slip through the holes
left where the misplaced planks had fallen into the stream.

"I can get a couple of logs or some big branches in the woods," thought
Jack, "and stick them in the holes."

Instinctively he looked to see if the mail and express pouches were safe.
Yes, there they were on the saddle front. None of them had slipped off when
the pony rider himself had so narrowly escaped.

Then, with a quick motion, Jack's hand went to the breast pocket of his
coat, where he had placed the small, sealed express package. To his
consternation he felt no bulky protuberance there, such as would have been
made by the parcel.

"Whew!" whistled Jack. "Great Scott! I hope I haven't lost that!"

It was very possible that he might have done so, for he remembered pitching
forward on his pony's neck, as he leaned over to save himself. The package
could easily have slipped from his pocket.

In a veritable frenzy of alarm, Jack rapidly searched through his other
pockets, thinking he might, by some chance, have thrust the valuable parcel
into one other than the first he had selected as being the most secure. But
it was not to be found.

"Just my luck!" he cried aloud. "It's lost. This will end my services as a
pony express rider!"

His steed whinnied, thinking, perhaps, that his master might have been
speaking to him, as Jack frequently did. Indeed, the lad often talked to
his horse as one might to a human being, and Jack stoutly maintained that
Sunger understood as much if not more than some people.

"Well, if it's gone, it's gone," Jack said, sadly enough "And it wasn't my
fault, either. I couldn't know those planks in the bridge were loose. It's
lucky Sunger felt them giving in time, and gave me the alarm, or we might
both be lying somewhere with broken legs, if not worse."

He glanced back to the place where the accident had so nearly occurred. In
the gleam of the moon he could see two black streaks in the otherwise level
flooring of the bridge, the planks of which were white from the bleaching
of the sun and the dust of the mountain trail.

"That's where I nearly went through," mused Jack. Hardly had the thought
come to him than he saw, lying on the very edge of one of the black
openings, a small, light object.

"Jove! If that could be it!" he murmured. Cautiously he started toward it,
in fear lest the vibration of his steps jar the sealed packet into the
stream, for that it was the sealed packet Jack now felt sure.

As the lad started forward his horse followed him, so well trained was
Sunger.

"No; stay back, old fellow!" Jack exclaimed. The pony, whinnying, obeyed.
Jack noticed that one of the mail bags was hanging loose, as if about to
fall, but he reasoned that he could fasten that securely after he had
learned whether or not the white object was the package missing from his
pocket.

Cautiously he approached, and there, lying on the very verge of one of the
openings made by the missing planks, was the packet, which Jack was sure
contained jewelry, if not money.

"Well, if this isn't lucky!" he cried, as he picked it up, and thrust it
into the bottom of his inside vest pocket. "Just pure luck! You won't get
out again," he added, patting the package.

It was the work of but a few minutes to drag from the nearby woods some big
branches to fill in the holes left by the missing planks. Of course, the
branches did not make the bridge secure, but they could easily be seen,
even after the moon went down, and would warn chance passersby of the
danger. There was a chance that some one might come after Jack passed,
though the pony express trail was one not often followed after nightfall.

Jack tried to ascertain by careful looking how the planks had come to give
way under the hoofs of his steed. But there was no clew that he could
discover. The bridge was not a carefully made one, and it would have been
an easy matter for any one to so loosen a couple of the planks that the
least motion would send them into the stream below.

"But who would want to do a thing like that?" Jack reasoned. "I might have
been killed, and so might Sunger. Well, all's well that ends well, I guess.
Now I'd better be getting along."

The bridge was as secure as Jack could make it in his haste, and having
made sure that nothing was missing from the mail and express pouches, and
fastening them securely, he mounted his horse again, and set off at a
lively pace. For a while he was worried lest his pony might have strained a
shoulder or a tendon, but Sunger appeared to be none the worse for the
adventure.

Jack rode on, and had covered about half the distance to Rainbow Ridge when
he heard, on the trail ahead of him, the sounds of other hoof-beats. At
first he thought it might be the echo of his own, but a moment of listening
told him it was some one else on the road,

"I wonder who it can be," he asked himself.

He saw a few minutes later. It was Jake Tantrell, the man who had sneered
at him--the man who was anxious to have his place. Was it fancy, or did
Tantrell start and draw back his horse at sight of Jack.

"Look out for the bridge," Jack called as he passed the man, making up his
mind, even though the fellow had scorned him, that he could do no less than
warn him. "A couple of planks gave way with me a while ago."

"Oh--er--they did! Planks gave way?" Tantrell stammered.

"Yes," Jack said. "I nearly had a bad fall."

He said nothing about the dropped package.

"Well, that's too bad," the man said. "They ought to fix that bridge."

"Some one did," said Jack.

"Eh? What's that?"

"I said some one did. I mean some one fixed it for me, I think."

"What--what do you mean?"

"I mean those planks never came loose by themselves. I stuck a couple of
branches in the holes. Look out when you ride over."

"Oh--I--I will. Thanks!" the man exclaimed, almost as an afterthought.

Then Jack rode on, and Tantrell passed him, giving the lad a sharp glance
in the gloom, for the moon was now down below the hills.

Rather shaken by his night's adventure, and a bit anxious, Jack finally
reached his own cottage. He turned in there, preferring to do so rather
than to awaken Mrs. Watson and her family at this hour, though he was
anxious to know how his father was feeling.

"But I guess he must be all right, or they'd have sent me some word,"
reasoned Jack.

He put his horse in the stable, and, after a hasty lunch from the cupboard,
turned into his own room, and slept soundly until morning. He was up early
in order to deliver the mail for the stage which would soon go out, and
among the things he turned over to the driver was the package that had so
nearly been lost.

"I'm glad to get rid of that," he said to Jed Monty. "It looks as if it's
worth something," and he pointed to the many seals.

"That's so, it does," Jed replied. "Guess I'll stow it in a safe place
myself."

Jack gave a warning about the missing planks of the bridge, and the road
commissioner promised to have repairs made. The lad said nothing of his
suspicions that the planks had intentionally been loosened, for he felt it
would do no good.

"I'll just keep my eyes open myself," he reasoned, "and maybe I can find
out a few things. It might be that some one who wants to be a pony express
rider in my place might try to make trouble for me in that way. Maybe they
didn't actually want to harm me or my horse, but they might have wanted me
to lose some mail. But I didn't!"

For the next few days nothing of moment occurred. Jack rode the trail
without anything happening to him, and there were only light loads to
carry. His father improved slightly, but Dr. Brown predicted that it would
be at least two months before he could be out.

At Golden Crossing Jennie was busy with her post office duties, but she
found time to spend a few hours with Jack when he was at the settlement.

It was one morning when the young rider went to the Mansion Hotel, as the
one hostelry in Rainbow Ridge was called, that Samuel Argent, who had once
been a prominent miner, but who had lost several fortunes, came to the
stage station and post office with several letters in his hand. Each one
was sealed with red wax.

"Going to make the trip straight through today, Jack?" he asked, for he
knew the lad slightly, though better acquainted with his father.

"Yes, I expect to, Mr. Argent," was the answer. "Is there anything I can do
for you?" Jack often executed small commissions, for which he was paid
extra.

"Well, this is in your regular line," the miner said, "but I have some
important letters here, and I'd rather give them to you, personally, than
put them in the mail. I'd like to have you hand them over to the Golden
Crossing stage man and--"

At that moment a man came running out of the hotel. He waved his hand to
Mr. Argent.

"Don't send those letters!" he exclaimed, and he seemed quite excited.
"Hold 'em! Don't let Jack take 'em!"




CHAPTER V


JUST IN TIME

Mr. Argent paused in the act of handing the sealed documents to the young
pony express rider, and turned to look at the man who had called to him.
Jack recognized him as a mining expert who did assaying. He had not lived
in Rainbow Ridge long, but he had done considerable work elsewhere for Mr.
Argent.

"What's that you said?" inquired the miner.

"I said, don't send those letters by Jack!"

The young pony rider felt the hot blood come into his cheeks. To him there
seemed to be but one meaning in the warning. He was being distrusted. The
service which he performed in riding at top speed from Rainbow Ridge to
Golden Crossing was under suspicion.

Was this because of the letter that had put his father under suspicion--the
Harrington epistle--or was it because of false reports being spread by
those who wanted Jack's place?

Something of what was passing through Jack's mind seemed to communicate
itself to the mining assayist, whose name was Payson Wayde. He smiled at
our hero, and said:

"Don't worry, my lad. It isn't that I think you wouldn't carry the mail
safely. It's that I have just heard something," he went on, turning to Mr.
Argent, "that makes it advisable to postpone the sending of those letters
now. Hold them until we can investigate a bit."

"Oh, that's different," the miner said. "I thought from the way you spoke
that you didn't want Jack to take them."

"Well, I don't; that is, I don't want him to take them just yet. Perhaps
you won't want to send them for a week or more after you hear what I have
to say," he went on to his employer. "But when we do send them you shall
take them, Jack," he said, with a smile of confidence.

The young pony express lad felt better on hearing this.

"Is there anything I can do for you?" he asked the two men.

"Not this trip, Jack, I guess," was the answer from Mr. Argent. "I may have
something for you day after to-morrow, though. Not these letters, but some
more samples I want checked up. I'll see you on your return trip."

"All right, Mr. Argent. Then I'll be getting along." And, having secured
his pouches of mail and express stuff to the saddle, Jack leaped to the
back of Sunger and was off at a gallop.

"A fine lad," murmured Mr. Wayde to the miner, as they turned back to the
hotel.

"Yes, indeed. I was afraid you were going to hurt his feelings by saying it
wouldn't be safe to send mail by him."

"Oh, no, indeed. I guess you can trust him, can't you?"

"I should say so! Jack is really doing his father's work, you see, Mr.
Bailey being laid up with a severe illness. Jack is working hard to make
good on this express route, and I'd hate to see him lose it, though there
are several around here who would be glad to take his place. But what's
up--why didn't you want me to mail these letters, after our agreement of
last night?"

"I'll tell you. I think some of your enemies have gotten wind of what is
going on."

"You mean about the new claim I'm going to stake?"

"Hush!" the other cautioned him. "No use in talking secrets out here. Come
to my room and I'll tell you all about it. Perhaps it may be well to take
Jack Bailey into your confidence a little later. You can decide on that
after I've told you just what came to me."

"Well, it all seems a bit mysterious," commented Mr. Argent, "but maybe you
know what you're talking about."

And as Jack rode off on his usual trip, the two mining men went into the
hotel deeply engaged in conversation.

Jack had several stops to make that morning before getting on the more
lonesome part of the trail, where he could give Sunger free rein to make as
good time as possible. In some places this would only be a walk, for the
road was treacherous and difficult. In other places along a comparatively
level slope, or down grade, Sunger would make up for lost time.

As Jack made a turn in the road, he saw, riding ahead of him, two men on
horseback. They turned in their saddles at the sound of his steed's
hoof-beats, and Jack recognized one of the men as Jake Tantrell. The other
man was a stranger to the pony rider.

"I hope Jake doesn't take it into his head to give me some mean talk now,"
mused Jack.

He made up his mind not to speak to the fellow, but he reckoned without
Jake. For as Jack came up the bully held up a hand as a signal to halt.
Jack was not a little apprehensive at first, but Jake, in surly tones, only
asked:

"You got anything for me?"

"Not this trip," answered Jack.

"Well, I'm expectin' a package and it ought to be here. Keep your eyes open
for it, young feller, and don't lose it," was the unnecessary caution.
"It's a valuable package."

"I'm not in the habit of losing things," Jack answered, with dignity. As he
rode on he heard the stranger remark to Jake:

"They ought to be there now?" oughtn't they?"

"Yes," was the reply. "They ought to be there now. But I'm not so sure
they'll get what they want. She's a plucky little girl, and she may be so
spunky she won't answer their questions."

"Well, they know how to make her," responded the stranger.

"Humph!" mused Jack, as he heard this. "I wonder who it is they are going
to try to make answer questions? A spunky little girl, so Jake said. I
wonder--"

It suddenly flashed into his mind.

"Could it be Jennie? She's in the post office, and she's sometimes there
alone! If some one should try to find out something about the mail or
express business they had no right to know!"

Jack hardly knew what to think. But there came a sudden desire in his heart
to be near Jennie--to be ready in case she called.

"Come on, Sunger, hit it up!" Jack cried, as this idea came to him. "We've
got to hustle and get to Golden Crossing as soon as we can!"

The intelligent beast appeared to know what was said to him, and increased
his pace. Jack thundered over the bridge where once he had so nearly had an
accident. He thought of the loosened planks, which had been fixed, and
again he wondered who had misplaced them--if it had been done by design.

On and on he rode over the trail, until he swung into Golden Crossing. He
was ahead of time, and the crowd that usually congregated about the post
office to wait for the sorting of the mail was not there.

The road about the little office was thick with dust, and the feet of
Jack's pony made scarcely a sound as he rode up. As he leaped to the ground
he heard through the open windows of the place voices in loud conversation.
One voice was that of a man, and said:

"Well, now, miss, you'd better tell us what we want to know. We'll find out
somehow, and the more trouble you give us, the more trouble we'll give you.
If you don't--"

"There's no use asking me!" broke in the voice of Postmistress Jennie
herself. "You're not going to get that information, and the sooner you
understand that the better!"

"Say!" exclaimed the third voice--that of a man--if you don't tell us,
we'll--"

"Mail!" cried Jack, in a loud voice, as he sprang into the place through
the window. "I thought I was too early, but I guess I'm just in time," he
grimly added, as he swung around and faced two men who stood in front of
Jennie Blake.




CHAPTER VI


THE SECRET MINE

Whether the young postmistress, or the two strange men, was the more
surprised could not be told. Both Jennie and her annoyers started at the
sudden appearance of the young pony rider. Then looks of anger and
annoyance came over the faces of the two men, while Jennie appeared
relieved.

"What's the trouble?" asked Jack, and with a seemingly careless motion he
threw open his coat. In his belt was a revolver, which he carried more
because the regulations compelled him to than because he really thought he
would ever need it.

"Trouble? There's no trouble," said one of the men in surly tones. "Who are
you, anyhow, to come butting in?"

"Oh, Jack!" exclaimed Jennie. "They want--"

"I'm the pony express rider on this route," interrupted Jack, with a nod at
Jennie, as if to beg her pardon for not letting her finish. "I just came in
with the mail. It's outside, but I thought I heard some trouble in here, so
I just jumped in--just in time, perhaps, too," he added, significantly.

"If you're looking for trouble," began one of the men, "I guess we can
accommodate you."

"That's enough," his companion said. "Come on out. Don't you know when to
quit?"

"Oh, Jack, they were so annoying!" cried Jennie. "They came in here when I
was all alone, and insisted on knowing the times when all the mails and
express shipments went out and came in. I said I wasn't supposed to tell
strangers that unless there was a particular reason why they should know.
Ought I to have told them? They said if I didn't they would make trouble
for me."

"They'd better try it!" Jack exclaimed, with flashing eyes. "Now, look
here, you fellows!" he went on. "I don't know who you are, nor what your
game is, but you'd better get out of here. This is government property, and
I'm a government employee for the time being, and I've got authority to
order you out of here. Now, you--get!"

For a moment one of the men hesitated, though the other seemed anxious to
leave. Jack threw open the door, and pointed in the direction of the trail
outside.

"Get out!" he exclaimed again, "and if you think I'm not big enough to
handle you I can get help. Tim!" he called, as he saw the doughty
red-haired youth who helped Jennie, "just come in here, will you?"

"Why sure I will, Jack," was the answer, Tim having just loomed into sight.
"I didn't know you were here. Is there mail to carry out?"

"Well, there are a couple of _males_ who need putting out, if not carrying
out," said Jack, smiling grimly at his play upon the words.

"Come on!" muttered the more conciliatory of the two intruders, and with
black looks at Jack and Jennie, the two men left the post office.

"Were those the men?" asked Tim, coming in as the two went off down the
rail.

"Yes," said Jack. "But they saved us the trouble of carrying them out. Now,
Jennie, what was it all about?"

For a moment the girl seemed on the verge of tears, and Jack found himself
earnestly hoping that she would not have hysterics. But she bravely
conquered her inclination.

"Oh, Jack! I'm so glad you came!" she exclaimed, as she held out both her
hands, which the young pony rider clasped warmly.

"I guess this is no place for me!" muttered Tim, with a sly wink.

"Oh, yes, Tim, stay!" Jennie begged. "I'll tell you about it, too. You'll
want to know in case these men ever come back."

"If they do!" exclaimed Jack, doubling up his fists, "I'll--"

"Oh, please don't fight with them!" pleaded Jennie. "Just let the sheriff
deal with them, Jack."

"Well, if I can't manage them myself, I'll call for help," promised the
youth. "But now tell me about it. Who were they?"

"I don't know, Jack. They are strangers around here. I was working all
alone in the office, getting my reports into shape, and was just going to
check up my stamps, when they came in. I had left the private door open, as
I didn't expect any one. Mother is away for the day, but I didn't in the
least mind being left, as I had a lot of work to do.

"Well, these men began asking all sorts of questions. I don't mind giving
information to strangers if it's the kind I can safely let out of the
office, but they wanted to know too much. Why, they even asked about you!"

"They did? Why, they didn't seem to know me just now!"

"Perhaps they didn't by sight, but they knew your name, and they asked me
how often you made the trips, where you stopped, how long it took, and they
even wanted to know what kind of a horse you rode.

"I simply refused to tell them, and then they began to threaten and
bluster. I was beginning to get frightened, but I made up my mind I
wouldn't give in to them. And then--well, you came along, and I guess I
never was so glad to see you, Jack! But, of course, they really did me no
harm. How did it happen that you got here ahead of time?"

"Oh, I just hurried, that was all," Jack answered. He did not want to tell
Jennie what he had overheard on the road. It might make her nervous, as she
might think there was some plot afoot to rob the post office.

"And there is something in the wind, or I'm mistaken," mused Jack, "though
what it is I can't guess. I'm going to be on the watch harder than ever.
The plot is beginning to thicken, as they say in stories," and he made a
mental picture of the two men.

The stage coach came in a little later, and Jack received a number of
parcels for transmission to Rainbow Ridge. As he was ahead of time, and as
there was some mail of importance, Jack resolved to make an immediate trip
back, though he would not arrive at the other end of the trail until after
dark.

"Oh, Jack! Do you think it will be safe?" Jennie asked.

"What safe?" he asked, with a smile. "The mail?"

"No--you!"

"Why shouldn't I be safe? I've ridden the trail before after dark."

"I know. But those--those men--"

"Nonsense! I'm not afraid."

Nevertheless, Jack was a little nervous as he galloped along the mountain
path after night had fallen. He started at every little noise, for while
there had been no robberies of the mail for some time, still such things
were known to happen occasionally.

But the two strangers who had annoyed Jennie were not seen around town
after the episode, and Jack did not think they were desperate enough to try
to hold him up. Besides, while there were some letters and parcels of
importance, there was not enough of value in the pouches this trip to make
it an inducement for robbery.

"They wouldn't take the risk for what I've got with me," reasoned Jack. And
he was right. At least there was no attack on him, and he reached Rainbow
Ridge safely and delivered his stuff.

Mr. Bailey was not quite so well next day, and Jack was worried about him.
But Dr. Brown said the ailment, which was a form of intermittent fever,
might often take a turn like that. Jack said nothing to his father about
the two men who had annoyed his cousin, but he did report the occurrence to
Mr. Perkfeld, who promised to have an investigation made.

But nothing was heard of the men, nor could any trace of them be found,
after a somewhat limited search was made.

"I guess they were just fresh tenderfeet," said the manager of the pony
express company.

Jack, however, did not altogether share this view.

It was about a week after this that, as Jack reached the Mansion Hotel one
morning to receive the mail, he was approached by Mr. Argent, who had a
number of red-sealed letters in his hand.

"This time I'm really going to let you take them, Jack," he said. "My
friend Wayde thinks it's all right to forward them to their destination
now."

"Are they as important as ever?" asked Jack, with a smile.

"Yes, and more so, Jack. I'll just give you a hint," the miner said, in a
low voice. "Wayde and I have discovered a secret mine, and if things go
right it may mean a big thing for us."

"A secret mine?" questioned the young pony express rider.

"Yes. It was one located by a prospector some years ago, but he died after
he came into town with some mighty rich nuggets. He gave the location of
the mine to a friend, but the latter lost the papers and never could find
the claim. Lately a relative discovered the documents in an old coat
pocket, and sent them to me, suggesting that we work the claim on shares.

"I went into it with Wayde, and we've found the mine. It's rich, too, and
it isn't far from here. But there are certain legal forms to comply with
before we can actually begin work, and these letters refer to those
matters. The reason Wayde didn't want to send them the other time was
because he feared a counter legal move on the part of some men who are
trying to locate the mine and get it away from those entitled to it But now
matters are about straightened out, and I'm going to send off these letters
by you. I'll expect answers back soon, and when they come--"

Mr. Argent paused suddenly, for a sound came from around the corner of the
porch where he and Jack had been standing during their talk. The miner
suddenly turned the corner of the hotel, with Jack following. They saw a
man walking rapidly away along the other part of the porch.




CHAPTER VII


THE STRANGERS AGAIN

"Was he listening?" asked Jack of the miner.

"It rather looks so," was the answer. "I thought I heard some one moving
about there as I was talking to you, and I wanted to make sure."

"Well, you did all right," replied Jack, grimly. "Do you know who he is?"

"No, but--"

"Say! Wait a minute!" suddenly exclaimed Jack. He had but a glimpse of the
man's back, but there seemed to be something familiar about the manner in
which the man walked off. Like a flash it came to Jack.

"I think I know him--at least I've seen him before," he said hurriedly to
Mr. Argent. "I'm going to find out for sure."

In a flash Jack had sprung over the porch railing, and was rapidly running
alongside the porch on the soft grass. He did this in order to get ahead of
the retreating man. Had he remained on the porch Jack's footfalls on the
boards would have given the alarm.

As it was, he was able to get ahead of the eavesdropper, and obtain a view
of his face. And Jack was not mistaken in his surmise. It was one of the
two men who had annoyed Jennie in the post office. The fellow seemed
startled on confronting our hero.

"So you're here now, eh?" asked Jack.

"Well, is that any of your business?" was the challenge. "Isn't this a free
country?"

"Of course," Jack answered. "But even in a free country there are certain
laws about causing trouble, and listening to private talk."

"Who was listening?" demanded the fellow.

"You were!" Jack exclaimed.

At that moment Mr. Argent came sauntering along the piazza. The fellow
turned sharply. Neither appeared to recognize the other.

"This chap is the same one I thought he was," explained Jack, "It was he
and a partner of his who made the fuss in the Golden Crossing office, Mr.
Argent. If you could find Mr. Perkfeld we might make a charge against him."

The man seemed disconcerted at this.

"Charge? What charge?" he blustered.

"You'll find out soon enough," Jack replied.

He started off, thinking Mr. Argent would keep the man there until Mr.
Perkfeld could be summoned. But the fellow made a sudden dash, leaped to
the saddle of a horse that was near the end of the porch, and was off down
the road on a gallop.

As he rode off he was joined by another man, who also made a hurried exit
from the hotel and leaped to the back of his horse. But he was not so quick
but what Jack recognized him as the other man who had annoyed the young
postmistress of Golden Crossing.

"Well, they got away!" Jack said, regretfully, as he came back to Mr.
Argent.

"Perhaps it's just as well," answered the miner. "I don't know that you
could have really held them on the charge of being impudent and rough to
Miss Blake, and you tell me that is all they did."

"Yes, that's so. But what about one of them listening to what you were
telling me about the secret mine."

"Oh, bless you, that doesn't worry me!" said Mr. Argent, with a laugh.
"I'll defy anybody to find that mine without the proper directions, and I
don't intend to tell even you those, Jack--at least not yet. I really
didn't let out any information of any account, and what that chap
overheard, if he heard anything, won't do him any good. I'm not worrying,
but, of course, I don't like to have strangers sneak up and listen to what
I say. But no great harm has been done."

"I'm glad of it. And perhaps it's just as well we didn't have them
arrested. It would make it unpleasant for Jennie to be brought into court."

"That's right, Jack. Well, the fellows got away, so we won't worry about
them. Now take these letters, and I needn't tell you to be careful of
them."

"I sure will look out for them," Jack promised, earnestly.

"And just mention them to your cousin at the other end of the line," went
on the miner. "Have her use a little extra care."

"I'll tell her," promised Jack.

"Another matter," went on the miner, and this time he lowered his voice to
a whisper as if afraid of being overheard. "These letters aren't so
important as their answers will be."

"What do you mean?" asked Jack.

"I mean that we expect some legal documents by mail, after these letters
have reached those for whom they are intended," answered the miner. "The
replies will be very important, and I wouldn't want them to fall into the
hands of those who are trying to get the property away from us.

"So if you'll just mention to your cousin to bear in mind when any letters
like these come for me that they're important, and if you'll remember that
yourself, Jack, why, we'll be much obliged to you."

"I sure will be on the watch," promised Jack. "They'll be registered, of
course."

"Oh sure! But I don't imagine anything will happen to them. For no one can
know exactly when they will come. Only be on the watch for them."

"I certainly will! Now if you'll give me those I'll put them in a safe
place."

Mr. Argent handed over the missives, and Jack put them in his inside
pocket, and then used a safety pin to close the opening.

"Safety first!" he exclaimed with a laugh.

"That's right," assented the miner.

As Jack rode off on the back of his pony, which was becoming quite famous
because of his speed and the regularity with which he made the trips, the
young express rider thought of the two strangers who had suddenly
reappeared after having annoyed Jennie.

"I just wonder who they are, and what their game is," he reflected. "After
all, maybe it would have been a good thing if we had caught them. I guess
Jennie would be game enough to go to court and testify. But I don't know on
just what charge we could have held them."

"Anyhow, we haven't got 'em, so perhaps it's all for the best. But I sure
will be on the watch for them again. And I'll have to be on the lookout for
the replies to these letters. Well, it's all in the game," Jack reflected.
"Dad probably has gone through the same, and worse, maybe, and he never
backed down. I've got to keep up his reputation, if I'm doing his work. It
would be fine, too, if I could find some way of proving that he wasn't at
fault in that Harrington matter. But I suppose that's too much to expect."

Thus reflecting, Jack rode on.




CHAPTER VIII


A NIGHT ATTACK

Naturally, after the little experience of the morning, having received the
sealed letters, and having again seen the two men who had acted so roughly
toward Jennie, Jack was a little apprehensive as he rode along the trail
toward Golden Crossing. There were several places very favorable for
holding up a stage coach, had one used the mountain road, but, as has been
said, the route was too difficult for a vehicle to traverse.

"Though they might hold me up, more easily than they could a coach if they
wanted to," reflected Jack. Consequently he approached all suspicious
places with more than his usual caution.

But as he covered mile after mile and nothing happened, he became easier in
his mind.

"I guess they aren't going to have a try for us, after all, Sunger," he
said to his faithful pony. The plucky creature whinnied in answer, as Jack
patted his neck.

"It wouldn't do 'em much good to make us stand and deliver," mused the
young express rider. "For Mr. Argent said these letters weren't of prime
importance. Still, I wouldn't like to have them taken away from me, or lose
them, and get a bad reputation in this business. I don't want to lose my
job just now, when dad is laid up."

Jack had feared that the two strangers who had fled in such a hurry from
the hotel in Rainbow Ridge, might at least try to annoy him on the road, as
they had taken the trail leading up the mountain to Golden Crossing.

But nothing like this happened, and in due time Jack arrived at the other
post office and was greeted by Jennie. Jack gave Jennie the message about
Mr. Argent's letters, but said nothing to her about having again seen the
two men who had annoyed her.

"It would only worry her," he reflected, "and she has worries enough
without my adding to them."

Jack remained that night in Golden Crossing, spending a pleasant evening
with Aunt Matilda and Jennie. He was off early the next morning for the
ride to Rainbow Ridge. Having delivered the mail, and before going to see
his father, Jack made some inquiries around the Mansion Hotel about the two
strangers who had left so suddenly.

No one knew much about them, except that they had ridden in early the
previous morning, and had eaten a hasty breakfast It had been observed that
they kept well to themselves, and conversed in low tones.

Then had come the episode of the listening on the part of one, and the
flight of both of them. That was really all Jack could learn.

"And as long as you didn't see anything of them on the road," said Mr.
Argent, "I guess you needn't worry. You got my letters off all right?"

"Oh yes."

"Well, now the next thing will be the replies. Watch out for them."

And Jack said he would.

The young pony express rider had a few hours' spare time that day, and he
spent them with his father. Mr. Bailey was discouraged at the progress he
was making.

"I don't seem to get at all better, Jack," he complained.

"Well, Dad, it takes time, Dr. Brown says," his son observed.

"I know. But it seems as if I ought to get stronger. I want to be back at
work."

"Oh, don't worry about that, Dad! I'm on the job, you know. I may not be
doing as well as you, but I'm taking the mail and express stuff back and
forth, and I haven't heard any complaints yet"

"Then you haven't lost anything, Jack, and nothing has been taken from
you?"

"No, Dad. Not a thing."

"And the contents of no important letters have leaked out?"

"Not yet. But I know what you're thinking of, Dad. It's about that
Harrington letter."

"Yes, Jack, I am. I wish I could prove that it wasn't my fault."

"Don't worry, Dad! Your friends know it wasn't your fault, and some day we
may be able to prove to your enemies that it wasn't."

"I hope so, Jack, but I've about given up," was the weary answer.

Jack had carefully kept from his father all the little worries that had
occurred since the change in the pony express business had been made. He
had said nothing about the misplaced planks of the bridge, nor about the
two strangers.

"What's the use of worrying dad?" reflected our hero. "He has troubles
enough of his own. I'll keep mine to myself."

That afternoon, late, as Jack was waiting at the Golden Crossing post
office for the mail, a messenger rode in to say that the stage would be
delayed because of a slight accident.

"But the driver wants you to wait," the messenger told Jack, "as there are
some important letters to go to Rainbow Ridge, and be forwarded from there
on."

"All right, I'll wait," promised Jack.

"It will mean a night ride," suggested Jennie.

"I know it, but it can't be helped. It's part of the game. I'm not afraid."

But when Jack helped Jennie sort the mail a little later, and found among
the letters and parcels some large envelopes addressed to Mr. Argent and
sealed with red wax, a strange feeling came over him.

"Here are those answers," he thought. "These must be the important papers
about the secret mine. And I've got to carry them through on a night ride.
Well, I wish they hadn't come just at this time, but there's no help for
it. I've got to take them through."

He paused for a moment, with the important letters in his hand.

"What are those?" asked Jennie.

"Oh just some stuff for our town," Jack answered, indifferently.

In a flash he had made up his mind not to tell his cousin of the value and
importance of the mail that night. She would worry if she knew what he was
carrying along the trail after dark.

And Jack had another plan. He realized that the enemies, or business rivals
of Mr. Argent, (call them what you will) might know of the arrival of the
documents.

"They may try to get them away from me," reflected Jack. "Now, I've' read
somewhere that the best way to throw off suspicion is to make something
important look unimportant. That's what I'm going to do."

There were a number of newspapers in the mail. While Jennie was out of the
room a moment Jack opened one bundle of papers, folded the red-sealed
letters up in one of the papers, put back the wrapper and tossed the
package into the pouch he would carry over his saddle.

"There!" he thought. "That doesn't look like anything of value. If I am
held up, the thieves will throw away the newspapers anyhow, and I can get
them later. I think that's a pretty good scheme, myself."

An hour later Jack was on his way along the mountain trail. It was quite
dark, for there was no moon. But Jack laughed and sang as he parted from
Jennie. He pretended that his heart was light, though, truth to tell, he
was a bit apprehensive.

"Maybe those fellows don't know that the letters have arrived, and, if they
do, my newspaper stunt will fool 'em," he decided.

It was near the bridge where once he had so nearly had a serious accident
that, as Jack was riding along, he heard a sudden command:

"Halt!"

"Go on, Sunger! Go on!" yelled Jack in his pony's ear, as he slapped the
animal on the flank. Then Jack felt himself suddenly attacked, as some one
rode up alongside him, and dealt him a blow on the head.




CHAPTER IX


IN BONDS

For a moment Jack was so overcome by dizziness and a faint, sick feeling,
that he could do nothing. Everything seemed black before his eyes, a
blackness not of night, but the blackness of a fainting fit.

The young express rider reeled in his saddle, but he kept his seat by a
great effort. Then he fought back the growing faintness that was overcoming
him.

"I mustn't give in! I mustn't give in!" he told himself fiercely, over and
over again. "I mustn't give way! I won't! I've got to protect the valuable
letters--the mail--the express."

Then, somehow, Jack's head cleared. He felt more able to hold himself back
from that terrible black void. He straightened up in the saddle, and his
vision was again normal.

In the darkness he could see several men, three at least, standing around
him. These three were not mounted, though off to one side of the trail Jack
could see several dark forms which he could make out to be horses. Then he
saw, as he turned in his saddle, a man behind him on a big horse. This man
held something in his hand, and Jack guessed it was this individual who had
struck him. All four of the men wore masks.

"What--what does this mean?" faltered Jack, though he could pretty well
guess.

"Huh! Don't you know?" was the question shot back at him. He tried to
distinguish the voice, but could not. It was the mounted man who had
spoken.

"A hold-up, eh?" asked Jack, his tones faltering in spite of his effort to
make them steady. That this should come to him in spite of his watchfulness
was a bitter thing. And a robbery, of all time, when the valuable papers
and letters expected by Mr. Argent were in the mail pouches, too! There was
also some valuable express matter. Jack gritted his teeth in anger. Then
his hand moved toward the pocket where he carried his weapon.

"No you don't!" was the sudden and fierce exclamation of the man on the
horse beside him, and with a quick motion he caught hold of Jack's hand,
and jerked it away. "Take his gun!" the man directed. "I'll hold him."

One of the dismounted men came up, and while the man on the big horse held
Jack in a cruel grip, another of the robbers brought out the revolver which
Jack's father had given him to carry for protection. But it had afforded
little of that in this instance.

The young rider tried in vain to pierce behind the masks, and ascertain the
identity of those holding him up, but it was of no avail.

"What do you want? What's the game?" Jack asked, as the man let go of his
wrist. The fellow, however, kept one hand on the bridle of the pony, so
that there was no chance for Jack to make a sudden spurt to escape.

"The game is we want what you've got with you," said one of the men. "And
you might as well admit that we're going to get it. You may be a pretty
smart lad, or think you are, but I guess we've got you right now!"

"No, you've got me all wrong," Jack answered bitterly. "And while you were
about it why didn't you bring a few more along. Four crooks seem hardly
enough to hold up one pony express rider. Aren't you afraid I'll do
something to you?"

He spoke lightly--sarcastically. He was fighting for time. Trying to think
of some plan of escape. He even thought perhaps some one might come along
to whom he could appeal for help. But there was as small a chance of that
as there was of his being able to get away by his own efforts.

"I suppose you could have scared up half a dozen more like yourselves," he
went on. "There are more outlaws in the mountains. Or, maybe, you have
another force back on the trail, and another ahead here."

"Say, young feller, none of your fresh talk now!" cried one of the men,
fiercely. "I won't stand it!"

"No, let's get it over with," remarked another.

At these words a chill of fear, such as he had not experienced before,
seemed to flash over Jack. Did the men mean to harm him--put him to death,
perhaps, to hide the living witness of their crime? He tried to be brave,
but again came that faint feeling, and his head ached where he had been
struck--ached cruelly.

"Yes, lets finish and get a move on," agreed the man on the horse. "Here,
one of you take the pouches, and another hand me the ropes. I'll have him
triced up in a jiffy."

Jack breathed more easily. He was only to be bound then, as the outlaws of
the mountains usually did bind the stage drivers or express messengers whom
they robbed. There seldom was a killing, unless the victims resisted or
shot at the hold-up men.

One of the three unmounted men advanced to Jack, and began loosening the
fastenings of the mail and express pouches.

"Don't touch them!" the pony rider cried. "Leave those mail sacks alone!"

So vehement was he, and so much energy did he put in his voice that, for
the moment, the man was startled, and drew back.

"What's the idea?" he asked.

"That is government property!" went on Jack, trying to follow up the
impression he had made. "You are interfering with the United States' mail.
And I don't need to tell you what sort of a crime that is! You won't have
to deal with me, you'll have to answer to the government, and the
inspectors will be on your trail inside of twenty-four hours! Don't you
touch that mail!"

For a moment the men did seem impressed by Jack's sharp warning. Then the
man on the horse laughed, and said:

"Oh, quit your talking. Go on, take the sacks and we'll get away. We can't
stay here the rest of the night!"

"Say, he has a pretty lively tongue," observed the man who was loosening
the sacks from Jack's saddle. "He gave me a start for a second or two."

"Forget it! Yank 'em off and come on."

Jack felt that it would be useless to protest further. Besides, there was a
growing feeling of sickness and pain. The man took the express and mail
packages and tied them on one of the three horses.

"Now then get off, you pony rider!" ordered the man on the big horse. "Get
off, and get off quick! We're in a hurry and we're done fooling!"

"What--what are you going to do?" faltered Jack. He was beginning to be
afraid of what was to come.

"We're going to tie you up so tight that you won't get loose in a jiffy,"
was the answer he received. "You say the inspectors will be on our trail
inside of twenty-four hours. Well, maybe they won't if you can't get loose
to give the alarm. So we're going to tie you up."

"That won't prevent the alarm from being given," Jack said. "When I fail to
arrive there'll be a search made, and they'll find me."

"That's right," Jack heard one of the unmounted men say in a low voice.
"He's right about that."

"Oh, what of it?" impatiently asked the man on the horse. "Of course this
thing is bound to be found out sooner or later. I expect that. But we can
gain a little time by trussing him up with ropes. Now come on--be lively.
Get off or I'll yank you off, and I won't be easy about it, either!"

Jack felt it best to obey. He leaped from the Saddle, and then, with a
sharp slap on the flank of Sunger, he cried to his pony: "Go on, boy!
Home!"

The intelligent animal sprang forward, and before any of the men could
catch him had darted off down the dark trail in the direction of Rainbow
Ridge.

"Look out--get him!" one of the men cried, sharply.

"What's the use--he's gone, and he's one of the fastest horses in the
mountains; we'd never catch him," said the mounted man. "It was a sharp
trick, lad, but it won't do you any good. Tie him up!"

Jack was handled roughly by the outlaws, and was soon so tightly bound that
he felt he never could get loose without help. He once more tried to look
behind one of the masks, but it was so dark that he could see nothing. He
tried to get a mental picture of the shapes of the men and the tones of
their voices, so he might know them again if he ever saw or heard them.

"Lay him over here, on one side of the road," ordered the man who seemed to
be the leader. "Some one may be along before noon to-morrow and take care
of you," he said to Jack, who did not answer. "If they don't we'll send an
anonymous message, telling where you can be found. We don't want to hurt
you, but we had to have this stuff from you, and this was the only way to
get it," the outlaw went on. "Come along, boys," he concluded.

Then the four men, taking with them the mail and express pouches, galloped
away in the darkness.




CHAPTER X


A QUEER DISCOVERY

Left to himself, tied tightly with the ropes that cut into his wrists and
made his legs ache, poor Jack lay in a sort of stupor. He could hardly
understand what had happened, and his head hurt him very much where he had
been struck. He was lying on the road at one side of the trail. Overhead he
could see the stars twinkling. It was still very quiet.

"Not much chance of any one coming along the trail to-night," mused Jack.
It was the first thought that had come clearly to him, and, in a measure,
it served to rouse him from his stupor. Then his brain seemed to clear.

"I've got to do something! I can't lie here and wait for some one to come
and help me!" he decided, Already there was more vigor in the activity of
his mind.

Jack's first idea, as soon as he had begun to think clearly, was that he
must loosen his bonds. To this end he writhed and struggled as he lay on
his back. He managed to roll over on his side, but he found himself more
uncomfortable than in his first position, and soon rolled back to that.

During this operation he tried, by every means in his power, to stretch or
strain the knots. He thought if he could only get one of the bonds to give
he might manage to get one hand out.

"And if I can do that, I'll soon be clear," Jack reasoned, "But it isn't
going to be easy to get one hand out."

It did not take him long to discover this. The robbers had done their work
well. They were taking no chances. Jack rested after his struggles. His
head ached worse than ever because of the rush of blood to it from the
strain.

"I wonder if it will do any good to call?" he mused. "I'm going to try. But
I've got to get my breath first."

A little later he began shouting and calling for help, doing it at
intervals. But he had not much hope. He was on the lonesomest part of the
trail, which, at best, was seldom traveled. Often days would pass without
any one, save the pony express rider, going over the mountain.

"I might as well save my breath, I guess," reasoned Jack. "This is only
playing me out. Maybe they'll come for me when Sunger gets home. Whoever
sees him without me and the mail will know something has happened. The only
trouble is they won't know where to look. But it's my best chance, I
think."

He lay quiet for a period, thinking over the momentous events that had just
occurred.

"I wonder who those men were, and what they were after," mused Jack. "There
wasn't enough valuable stuff in the express packages to make four men risk
state's prison for it. It must have been the mail they were after. And
nothing of great value was in the mail, except the letters for Mr. Argent.
Of course, they were what they wanted. And in that case he ought to know
who would be most interested in taking them. We may be able to arrest the
men yet.

"But it may be too late," Jack reflected. "They may get the information
they want and take the secret mine away from those to whom it belongs. That
would be too bad! But if my plan only works, and those fellows don't open
that bundle of papers, the letters may be safe yet. It was my best chance.
If I could only get loose!"

Again Jack struggled and squirmed, but the ropes would not give an inch.
Suddenly, as the young pony express rider was trying to work loose his
bonds, he felt a sharp pain in one hand, which was under him, behind his
back, pressing on the earth.

"Whew! Something cut me then!" Jack exclaimed. "Must be a knife one of the
men dropped. If I could only get at that and on a rope!"

Carefully he felt along on the ground, so as not to cut himself again. His
fingers touched something sharp.

"A piece of glass--part of a broken bottle," he murmured. "Well, it may be
as good as a knife, but I'll probably cut myself more in using it."

He managed to work himself down until he had a firm grip on the piece of
glass under him--a grip that did not cut.

"Now let me figure this out," he mused.

It was obvious that he could not hold the piece of glass in his fingers and
saw away at the ropes around his wrists. He could not bend his fingers back
far enough.

"If I could only get the glass between my feet, I might be able to bend
them back far enough, by lying on my face, so I could saw on the ropes that
way," he reflected. He tried, but soon had to give it up. He also
endeavored to do this by lying on his side, but it was of no use. Then, in
a flash, it came to him.

"I'll bury the glass in the ground, to hold it," he told himself. "By
leaving a sharp, jagged edge sticking out I ought to be able to saw through
the ropes on my wrists, by rubbing the cords up and down against the glass.
I'll do it!"

It was hard work, but by lying on his side Jack managed, after a fashion.
He had to work without seeing what he was doing. Even daylight would not
have helped him, for he could not see behind his back.

By using the glass as a sort of shovel, Jack managed to dig a hole in the
earth. He then put the long piece of glass in this, upright, and packed
dirt around it. His fingers came in contact with a small stone, and he used
this to tamp the soil and gravel around the glass knife, to hold it more
firmly upright. He cut himself several times while doing this, but he kept
on.

Finally he was ready to make the attempt. It was more than an hour after he
first began his operations, and he was weary, for he had to work in a
cramped and uncomfortable position. He rested a few minutes, and then began
sawing the rope around his wrists up and down on the sharp piece of glass
stuck upright in the ground.

It had to be done slowly and gently, because too much pressure would have
overturned the queer knife. Jack knew he must be patient. He cut his wrists
more than once, but the gashes were slight, and he thought the bleeding
would soon stop.

Finally he felt the bonds loosening slightly. Some of the rope strands were
cut through.

"It won't be long now," Jack thought, gladly.

Again and again on the jagged edge of the glass knife did he rub the cords,
and finally, with a sudden spreading apart of his hands, he found he could
break the remaining strands.

His hands were free!

Jack's heart beat high with hope now. He waited a few minutes to let the
slackened circulation of blood take up its work. Then it was the work of
but an instant, with the same piece of glass that had served him so well,
to sever the ropes about his legs. But when Jack tried to stand up he
nearly toppled over, so weak was he, and so numb were his legs. They had
gone to sleep from the lack of circulation of the blood.

But in a little while he was all right, and could walk about.

"Now, the question is, what's the best thing to do?" he asked himself.
"Make for home, as soon as I can, and give the alarm," he reasoned. "I've
got to give the alarm, if Sunger hasn't already gotten there and given it
for me."

Off on the dark and lonely trail he started. It was quite different from
traveling over it on the back of his speedy pony. But it was something to
be free, and free sooner than the robbers had any idea he would be.

"I may even be able to catch up to them, and trace which way they go," Jack
thought.

He walked on for nearly an hour, when he heard the trot of a number of
Horses some distance ahead of him. Jack halted and listened intently.

"I wonder if those are the hold-up men coming back, to make sure I'm still
tied up, or if it's my friends?" thought Jack. "I can't afford to take a
chance. I'll hide in the bushes until I see who they are."

He knew every inch of the trail. Near the spot where he was, was a hole in
the side of the hill where some badly directed man had once started to dig
a gold mine. He had not gone far before he discovered that iron pyrites was
the only "gold" in that locality. The hole was never filled up, and was now
almost hidden from sight by a heavy growth of underbrush.

"That's the place for me," Jack mused. A few strides took him to it, and he
stepped in to await, in concealment, the passage of the oncoming horsemen.

Something soft and yielding came in contact with Jack's foot. He started,
thinking he must have stepped on some sleeping beast. But there came no
outcry, which would have followed in that case.

"It can't be dead leaves," mused the lad, "it doesn't feel that way.
What--"

He stooped down and felt with his hands. A thrill ran through him.

"The mail pouches!" he exclaimed in a hoarse whisper. "The mail pouches the
robbers took from me! They hid them here, and I've found them! What luck!"




CHAPTER XI


DUMMY LETTERS

Jack was so overjoyed at his queer and unexpected discovery that, for the
moment, he forgot all about the approaching horsemen from whom he had
hidden himself. Then there came a thought to him.

"Perhaps the pouches are empty! If the rascals have taken all the mail out
and just thrown the empty pouches in here, that isn't such a great
discovery after all!"

Once more he felt of the pouches in the darkness. He could tell that they
were well filled--almost the same as when he had tied them to his saddle.

"I don't believe they opened them!" he exclaimed, half aloud. "They must
have been frightened and thrown them in here, thinking to come back for
them when they had the chance."

Then he had another idea.

"And that must be the robbers coming now!" he reasoned. "They're coming
back to get the pouches. What shall I do?"

There was but one answer to that question--he must hide the mail and
express matter in some other place. He paused a moment to listen. The
galloping hoof-beats were nearer now, but it would still be some time
before the riders would be opposite the old mine hole. The trail wound in
and out at this point, and while sounds came up plainly through the
rarefied mountain air, bodies themselves could not travel so swiftly.

"I've got five minutes, anyhow," reasoned Jack.

He caught up the mail pouches, one in either hand, though his cut fingers
and wrists hurt him cruelly. But he gritted his teeth and kept on. He knew
the ground well. Back of the hole was a slope that extended to a deep patch
of woods. Jack would hide himself and the mail in there.

He was too excited to notice whether or not the locks on the bags had been
tampered with. In fact he could not see in the dark and he had no time for
extended investigation. He just tucked the bags under his arms, and ran
with them. That is he made as good time as was possible under the
circumstances. The ground was rough, and Jack himself was very weak. He had
suffered much that night.

He found a good hiding place down in between two big logs, and there he
stuffed the mail bags, covering them over with dried leaves. Then he
hurried back to the hole to get the express stuff.

Fortunately that was light, this trip, and he could easily carry the few
small parcels that had been entrusted to him. In fact, in those days, only
light packages were accepted by the pony riders. The mail was their chief
concern.

So Jack had no trouble in carrying the sacks of express matter to their new
hiding place. This done he had only to watch to see who the approaching
riders might be.

Jack worked quickly, and when he had taken the last of his recovered stuff
to the place between the two logs he sat down in such a position that he
had a view of the trail. It was getting lighter now, for the dawn was at
hand. There was a faint glow in the east.

"Well, I certainly have put in a night of it!" Jack thought. "And I may be
in for more if these are the robbers coming back. They may look for their
stuff, and make a search if they find it missing. But I don't believe
they'll find me."

Nearer came the approaching hoof-beats, Jack peered from his hiding place.
He could hear voices now, but the sound was uncertain. It would not do to
call out. He must see who it was that was coming.

Suddenly several men rode into view. Jack counted their heads as they were
outlined against the faintly-glowing eastern sky. There were seven of them.
Unless the robbers had come back reinforced these must be members of a
searching party looking for the pony express rider. Yet Jack would take no
chances. He must be certain.

"Hello, Jack! Jack Bailey! Pony Express! Where are you?"

This was the cry that echoed on the dying night.

Now there was no doubt of it!

Jack leaped to his feet.

"Here I am!" he cried. "Be with you in a second! Send some one up to help
me carry down the mail!"

He was wildly excited, but he managed to calm himself long enough to light
a match, and ignite a piece of bark. He wanted to indicate his position to
the rescuers. They saw the flare and some one cried:

"All right, Jack! Be with you in a minute! Are you all right?"

It was the voice of Dr. Brown.

"Yes, I'm all right. It was a hold-up," Jack explained. "But I have the
mail and express stuff back--that is I hope I have it all," he added.

Another moment and he was surrounded by his friends. There were Jed Monty,
the stage driver, Dr. Brown, Amos Perkfeld, the president of the express
company, Payson Wayde and Mr. Argent, besides Henry Applebaugh, the hotel
keeper, and one of his stable boys.

"Are you all right. Jack?" Dr. Brown repeated, "Your father insisted that I
come out and help look for you."

"Yes, I'm all right. Just cut a little, where I sawed off the ropes on a
piece of jagged glass. But does my father know?"

"Yes, your pony came galloping up to the Watson house, all lathered up,
with you and the mail missing. We knew right away something had happened,
after Mr. Watson came rushing into town with the news. So we organized a
searching party at once. But what happened to you?"

Jack told everything, down to his unexpected finding of the mail, and his
hiding from the anticipated robbers.

"And so you got everything back!" exclaimed Mr. Perkfeld. "Well, I call
that luck! Of course neither the government nor I could blame you for being
robbed, but it is good to get it all back."

"And did my pony get home safe?" asked Jack eagerly. Sunger meant much to
him.

"He's all right," said the hotel keeper. "I had one of my boys look after
him. He's a bit winded, that's all. Smart little horse, that! If ever you
want to sell him, Jack--"

"You needn't ask. I don't," was the quick answer. "But what about my
father, Dr. Brown? Is he worrying, much?"

"Well, some, of course, Jack. But I gave him Some quieting medicine, and
he'll soon hear the good news. He's much better these last few days."

The men questioned Jack at length about the appearance of the hold-up men,
but he could not give a very clear description. No one recognized them as
any one they knew.

"But we'll get a posse out after them as soon as we get back to town,"
declared Mr. Perkfeld. "We'll show them they can't hold up the pony express
and get away with it."

"They didn't get away with it--that's the joke," said Mr. Argent. "I guess
Jack is right. They probably feared pursuit, or might have gotten an alarm,
so they dumped the stuff in the old mine hole and rode away, intending to
come back later. Only Jack got ahead of them."

"That is I hope I did," interposed the pony express rider. "Maybe they have
looted the bags, though they feel as full as when I look them from Golden
Crossing."

"Well, we can soon tell," replied Mr. Argent. "It's getting light enough to
see. The locks have been forced, anyhow, so it isn't any crime for us to
open the United States' mail under these circumstances."

Jack and his rescuers gathered around while the miner opened the bags. They
were filled with letters, papers and small parcels.

"There was some stuff for you, Mr. Argent," said Jack. "It was the matter
you were expecting, I think."

"Yes," assented the miner.

"I think I played a trick on the robbers," Jack went on. "At least I fixed
up a trick, whether it worked or not we'll have to see now. I put your
stuff inside a roll of newspapers thinking they wouldn't look there."

"Good plan," said the miner. "I get your idea. But some of the bundles of
papers have been opened. Maybe the hold-up men thought they would find
something to eat inside."

Jack's heart fell at these words. If the robbers had opened the packages of
newspapers it must have been because they expected to find something hidden
in one of them. And the only thing that was hidden was the parcel of
valuable letters.

"They evidently opened the bags, looked through the contents, and, after
putting the stuff back in them, hid the pouches in the hole," said Mr.
Argent, as he picked up and looked at several packages of newspapers.

"That's the one I wrapped your stuff in, Mr. Argent," said Jack, pointing
to one newspaper packet. "But--but it's been opened!" he cried, as he saw,
in the fast-coming morning light, what had happened.

"Yes, it's been opened," the miner agreed. His voice seemed strangely calm
and collected.

"Are--are the letters gone?" faltered Jack.

"Well, they don't seem to be here," went on the miner, while the others
looked on, somewhat at a loss what to make of the little scene. "No,
there's nothing here belonging to me, Jack. Are you sure you put the sealed
stuff inside this bundle of papers?"

"I'm positive!" Jack answered. "I remember it very well. It was the only
bundle of papers with that kind of a wrapper."

For a moment there was a silence in the group.

"Well, they are gone," Mr. Argent went on.

Once more Jack wondered at the peculiar manner in which the miner spoke.

"I--I'm awfully sorry, Mr. Argent," said Jack, brokenly. "I thought I was
doing the best thing to put the letters inside a newspaper bundle. I
figured that the thieves would pass that over as of no importance. I had
read of such things being done."

"But I guessed wrong. They must have been looking for the things you
expected. They must have been on the watch, and were waiting for me to hold
me up. I'm awfully sorry!"

Jack thought of the suspicion that had been directed against his father
because the contents of a letter entrusted to him had been made public. Now
the son had failed in a trust. It was no excuse to say it could not be
helped. The valuable letters were gone, and that alone mattered now. Jack
saw himself disgraced, and the pony express route ridden by some one else.

"I'm--I'm awfully sorry," he said again.

"Oh, you needn't be!" exclaimed Mr. Argent, and he was actually laughing.
"You needn't be."

"Needn't be! What--what do you mean?" gasped Jack.

"Why I mean that those robbers have had their trouble for their pains!
Those letters were only a dummy set, sent through the mail to throw them
off the scent. They contained information of absolutely no value. I thought
there might be a hold-up, Jack, though I could not tell when it would
occur. So I had my friends send me back a dummy set of letters. It was
those useless documents which the hold-up men took. The real letters will
come through later. It's a joke on those outlaws all right," and again Mr.
Argent chuckled.




CHAPTER XII


A RIDE FOR LIFE

Jack Bailey did not know what to do or say. He just stood there in the
morning light, gazing at Mr. Argent, as though to make sure of the miner's
words. Finally he faltered:

"Do you really mean it?"

"Mean it? Of course I do!" was the answer. "It's a joke on those rascals.
They've had all their trouble for their pains. They've gone off with a set
of dummy letters, plans and other mining information that will take them
several weeks to digest. And they'll waste a lot of time trying to locate
the claim. Only they'll be from fifty to a hundred miles from it. Oh,
they'll be fooled all right!"

Jack experienced a sudden revulsion of feeling. He swayed and seemed about
to fall. Dr. Brown caught him.

"Hold on! This won't do!" the physician exclaimed. "We must get him home.
Why he's hurt!" he cried, as he saw the blood on Jack's hands.

"It's just some cuts--from the glass I sawed the rope on," the lad
murmured. Already his strength was coming back to him. He was so glad the
robbers had not obtained the real letters. It was a clever ruse on the part
of the miner.

There was a spring not far from the place where Jack had recovered the mail
bags, and he was given some water from this. His cuts were also washed and
attended to by Dr. Brown. Then on a spare horse that had been brought along
Jack rode back to Rainbow Ridge, one of the men carrying the mail and
express stuff.

There was considerable excitement in town when the cavalcade returned.
Already preparations were under way for the organization of a posse to hunt
the robbers, and if necessary, scour the country for Jack.

But he had been found, and the mail and express matter, except the decoy
letters, recovered. So the only thing left to do was to set out after the
unscrupulous men who had attacked Jack.

There was little chance that they would be apprehended, however. They had a
start of several hours, and probably had good horses.

"Besides," said Mr. Argent, "they will very likely head for the supposed
location of the mine. It will take them out of this immediate
neighborhood," he chuckled.

"And for a good while, I hope," said Mr. Perkfeld.

"Oh yes, it will take them a few weeks to find out they've been fooled,"
the miner said. "But then they may come back again."

"If they do we'll arrest 'em!" declared Jed Monty, cracking his stage whip.

As had been expected, the posse could get little trace of the hold-up men.
They had disappeared after having cast aside the rifled mail pouches. It
developed, however, that a few pieces of registered matter, and some
express stuff had been taken, in addition to the bogus letters. The stolen
stuff was jewelry, and there was not much chance that it would be
recovered. Those to whom it was consigned would have to stand the loss.

But when it was considered that nearly all the valuable mail had come
through safe, or rather, had been recovered, and that Mr. Argent's real
letters were still safe, every one said it was a very lucky outcome indeed.

Jack's cuts did not amount to much, and he wanted to ride the route the
next day after his experience, but Dr. Brown and his father would not let
him. So a substitute was provided, furnishing his own horse, for Jack said
Sunger was too tired to be used without some rest. The pony had made the
trip alone, over the trail, and it was his appearance at the Watson home
which had led to the alarm.

A good rest, and the knowledge that nothing really serious had happened,
did much to restore Jack, and on the second day following his experience he
was back in the saddle again. His cuts had been well bandaged, so he could
use his hands. He was not actually required to ride the express route, but
he would not let any one else do it.

"Maybe I'll get a chance to trace those robbers," he said. "I feel sure I
would know at least one of them again--the man who sat on his horse all the
while. I'm going to be on the watch for him."

The excitement caused by the hold-up of the pony express soon died away. In
western communities there is so much going on that interest is soon shifted
to newer events.

The posse that went out to seek the robbers had no luck in finding them.
All traces seemed to disappear after the bags were found in the old
mine-hole. A man was kept in hiding at that place for nearly a week, ready
to give the alarm if the hold-up men returned to get the pouches which they
had hidden. But they did not come back.

Meanwhile Jack soon became himself again. His father, too, improved slowly,
though he was far from well, and would not be able to ride the trail again
for a long time.

Of course, Jennie had to hear the whole story of the hold-up from Jack
himself, and she sympathized deeply with him.

"Oh, it was just terrible!" she exclaimed, in her impulsive, but sweet and
girlish fashion. "I just can't bear to think of your lying out there all
alone, in the dark, and tied up with ropes!"

"Well, it wasn't exactly a picnic," Jack admitted.

"And to think of your cutting yourself on the glass!" she went on, as she
looked at his hands, one of which she held gently.

"Oh, it might have been worse. If it hadn't been for the glass I might have
lain there a while longer, and in that case I probably would not have found
the stolen mail bags, for if I had waited there until the rescuers came I'd
never have walked down the trail."

"Perhaps it was all for the best," Jennie admitted. "But I do hope nothing
like that happens again."

"Same here!" exclaimed Jack. "Now have you the mail ready?"

And then, for a time, it was business.

For two weeks or more Jack rode the trail, back and forth, carrying the
mail and the pony express matter. He was not again disturbed, and Mr.
Perkfeld gave orders that, except in case of great necessity, he should not
make night trips.

Nothing more was seen of the hold-up men, and Mr. Argent heard no news
concerning his mining business. Whether or not those who had taken the
bogus letters tried to locate the rich claim was not disclosed.

"But the real letters will come along some day--any day now--Jack," the
miner said, "And when they do--"

"When they do no one shall get them away from me!" Jack exclaimed, and he
was not boasting. He meant it. And you shall see how he kept his promise.

Several more attempts were made on the part of those who wanted Jack's
place to supplant him as pony express rider. But he had made himself a
favorite with the stage drivers, as well as with Mr. Perkfeld, who said
Jack could keep on riding the trail until his father was ready to resume
his duties. Several mean little things occurred, which, like the loose
planks in the bridge, Jack felt were designed to make trouble for him. But
he avoided them, fortunately, and none was as serious as the bridge
incident. The author of that remained a mystery, though Jack had his
suspicions.

Jake Tantrell continued to sneer at our hero. He made several efforts to
get Jack's place, even offering to do the work for less money, but his
offer was not accepted.

Then came an unpleasant season, when the fall rains set in. The sun seemed
to have forgotten how to shine, and Jack fairly lived in his poncho, or big
rubber riding blanket that went over his head, protecting him and the mail
bags.

"How's the Ponto river, Jack?" asked his father one day, when the lad had
stopped to speak to the invalid. "Is she rising much with all this water
that's falling?"

"Yes, she's getting pretty high, Dad."

"Look out for the bridge there. It isn't any too strong, and it may go out
with the high water."

"Oh, I'm not worrying about that. They've strengthened it within these last
two weeks, and I guess it will hold. Still the water is high in the
mountains. There's some talk of the Richfield dam not holding."

"Is that so? Well, if that goes out the folks down below will get a
wetting."

"That's what they will! But it may hold until it stops raining."

The Richfield dam was a new one, built above the small settlement of that
name on the flats about three miles to the northeast of the Ponto river.
The Richfield river was a branch of the latter, and was a turbulent stream,
often rising rapidly, for It was confined between steep, high! banks.

Jack had his talk with his father vividly recalled to his mind two nights
later. It was the first time since the hold-up that he had been obliged to
ride at night, but there was some valuable mail that had been delayed, and
that must be put through.

The pony express lad was on his trip toward Rainbow Ridge from Golden
Crossing, and it was dark when he reached the point where the Richfield
river branched off from the Ponto. And at the sight which met his eyes the
lad exclaimed:

"Say, this is certainly high water! I wonder if the dam is holding."

It had rained hard all day. Now it was but drizzling.

"I'm going to take a run down there," Jack decided. "It won't take me ten
minutes, and you can easily make that up; can't you Sunger?"

The pony whinnied in answer.

"I've time enough, anyhow," Jack went on. "I'll just go and take a look at
the dam. The water must be two feet over it now."

He turned off the main trail, and was soon approaching the dam. Before he
reached it he could hear the sullen roar of the pent-up water. And when he
had a view of the impounded flood he saw at once that it had approached the
danger point.

Jack looked critically at the dam. He knew something about such structures,
and about high water.

"I don't believe that dam will last," he argued. "There's too much water
pressure on it." Even as Jack spoke a small portion of the dam, near its
juncture with the shore, gave way, and a large volume of water rushed out.

"That's the start!" cried the pony rider. "She'll all go in half an hour.
I've got to ride down below and warn the Richfield people. Otherwise
they'll be swept away. I've got to ride and warn them!"

There was nothing else to do. Jack called to his faithful pony and guided
him into the trail that led to Richfield on the flats below. If that volume
of water were suddenly to be released through the breaking of the dam, part
of the village would be wiped out. If they were warned in time the populace
in the danger zone could take to the hills on either side and escape.

"Come on, boy!" called Jack to his pony. "It's a ride for life all right!"




CHAPTER XIII


THE INSPECTOR

Down the rocky slope, toward the little settlement on the flats below the
dam, rode Jack. He thought rapidly. If he could beat the flood, there would
be time to warn the sleeping population so they could flee to the hills.
There were not many who had their homes in the danger zone, not more than
twenty-five families.

"I'll wake some of 'em up," Jack reflected, "and then they can warn the
others. I don't imagine they'll have time to save anything. Too bad! But
that dam is certainly going."

The rain came pelting down once more, the drops stinging in Jack's face. He
tried to listen, to ascertain if he could hear the roar of the waters that
would indicate that the dam had already gone out, but all he could catch
was the splash of the rain.

Jack's course was along the now turbulent stream that was formed from the
overflow of the pent-up waters. In normal times this was but a mere brook,
most of the waters being led off through a pipe line to supply a distant
irrigation scheme. But now there was so much water that not only was the
pipe line filled, but the overflow from the dam had turned the brook into a
river.

"The people ought to have seen the danger, and gotten out before this,"
reflected Jack, "but perhaps they haven't. Well, I'll do my best to save
'em!"

On galloped the faithful pony. Jack wished he could put the mail and
express stuff somewhere until he could conclude his ride for life, but it
would not be safe to leave it anywhere. Fortunately, he had not much of a
load that night.

To Jack it seemed that he never would reach the little town, nor see the
lights of the first cabin loom into sight.

"That is there'll be lights if the folks are up," mused Jack, "and I hope
some of them are. There'll be some tall scrambling if I have to get 'em all
up out of bed."

The rain was a perfect torrent now, and the lad realized that, with all
this additional water falling into the reservoir, and with what it would
receive from the swollen mountain streams flowing into it, the dam would be
further endangered.

The pony slipped and almost fell as he went around a bad turn, where the
trail was filled with rocks.

"Look out there, Sunger!" Jack cautioned him, as he pulled up the faithful
animal "This is no time to fall!"

But Sunger recovered himself, and galloped on.

Suddenly a light flashed into view, then another.

"A house!" exclaimed Jack. "The first one. Now for the alarm!"

He rode up to the door, glad in his heart that the light was burning.

"Though that doesn't indicate that they're awake," the lad mused.

He pounded on the door, not getting out of the saddle.

"Get up! Get up!" he cried. "The dam will give way in a moment! Get up, and
help give the alarm!"

There was a moment of silence, broken only by the patter of the rain.

"Hurry! Hurry!" Jack cried, again pounding on the portal.

This time he heard, after a wait of a few seconds, some one moving in the
house, then a sleepy voice demanded:

"What is it? What's the matter? Who's there?"

"Never mind who I am!" Jack replied. "It's the pony express rider, between
Golden Crossing and Rainbow Ridge, if you have to know. But the dam is
giving way! It may have gone out now! There'll be the biggest kind of flood
on these flats in half an hour! Get up! Take to the hills!"

The door was thrown open, revealing a man wrapped in a blanket He seemed
just to have gotten up out of bed.

"What's that?" he inquired, sleepily.

Jack repeated his warning. The man understood now. He rushed back in to the
room.

"Come on, 'Mandy!" he yelled. "Git the children! Hustle into what clothes
you can! We've got to skip! The dam is going out! Quick now!"

"Warn the others nearest you!" Jack cried, as he turned Sunger away from
the house. "I'm going to ride on down below and give the alarm."

"I will!" the man answered. "You've probably saved our lives!"

A woman could be heard crying, and children were screaming in fear within
the house, but Jack could not stay for that. There were others to warn.

On he rode, going past without pause the few houses near that of the man he
had first called. Jack depended on him to give the alarm to his neighbors.

But the lad called at other cabins, repeating his warning. Some folk he had
difficulty in arousing, but the news soon spread, and in a short time the
whole settlement was on the alert.

As Jack knocked on the door of the last house, farthest removed from the
upper end of the settlement, he heard far off a dull boom like the
reverberation of an explosion.

"There goes the dam!" cried Jack. "Now the flood will come!"

But the people had been warned in time. They had no chance to save anything
save their most easily-carried belongings, and with these they fled to high
ground.

The noise Jack had heard was the breaking of the dam, and a little later a
great wall of water swept down the narrow valley. It carried everything
before it, sweeping away the frail cabins in its path. But there was no
loss of human life, thanks to the brave pony rider.

Jack wished he could stay and help the unfortunates, but he had other
duties. And, anyway, the residents on the higher ground, who were in no
danger, came to the relief of their neighbors. Houses were thrown open to
those whose homes had been swept away, and the refugees were given
clothing, food and shelter.

The flood did not last long, for the reservoir was soon emptied. But in
that short time it did great damage; that is comparatively great, for the
cabins were mostly those of poor persons.

The mass of water gradually subsided, though the heavy rains had made a
river of the mountain brook, and it was several days before it went back to
its normal level. Then the work of repairing the damage of the flood was
taken up.

When Jack saw, that night, that he had done all he could, he turned back on
the trail, for the mail must not be delayed longer than could be helped,
and already nearly three hours had been lost.

It was almost morning when he rode into Rainbow Ridge with the first news
of the burst dam. He made light of his own part in the affair, but that
came out later, and much honor was paid the lad. He bore his honors
modestly, however, and the greatest praise--or what he considered such--was
when his father said:

"I'm proud of you, Jack, my boy!"

Relief for the unfortunate flood victims was sent both from Rainbow Ridge
and Golden Crossing, and when Jennie heard of the disaster she insisted on
doing up some of her own clothing and forwarding it to some of the girls
who had lost theirs.

Every one helped, as is always the case at a time like that, and though
many families lost everything, still there was no mourning for lives that
never could be given back. Jack had provided against that by his brave
ride.

It was two weeks after the flood, and now the mountains were calm and
peaceful again. The long season of rain had passed, and the weather was
glorious. Jack enjoyed every moment of it as he rode the trail.

"It certainly is a great life!" he reflected. "I'm glad the way is so
rough, otherwise they'd be wanting me to use a motor-cycle or an
automobile. But none of them for me, while I have you, Sunger!"

The pony whinnied his answer, as Jack patted him on the neck.

"Well, anything big to-day, Jennie?" he asked, as he rode up to the Golden
Crossing office one afternoon. "Anything important? Why, what's the
matter?" he asked in some concern. "You look worried."

"I am, Jack," she said, and she did not answer his smile.

"What about? Your mother isn't ill; is she? You haven't lost any registered
letters?"

"No, it isn't that, but a post office inspector has been here, asking me a
lot of questions. He intimated that things weren't being done right, and
he's coming back in an hour to check up my accounts."

"Well, I suppose they have to do what they're hired for. Was he mean or
ugly?"

"No, but he seemed terribly in earnest. And suppose my accounts aren't
exactly right? I may have made little mistakes. Then he'll report me and
I'll lose my office. Oh, Jack, I couldn't bear that!"

"Don't worry," Jack soothed her. "I'll stay and have a talk with this
inspector. Maybe I can help straighten matters out, if they're a bit wrong.
You say he is coming back in an hour?"

"Yes, and the time is nearly up. There he is now."

Jack looked out, and a strange feeling came over him as he saw a large man,
on an unusually high horse riding up to the post office.

"Is he the inspector?" asked the pony rider.

"Yes," Jennie answered.

Jack shut his teeth grimly, and a strange look came over his face.




CHAPTER XIV


THE CHASE

"On, Jack, what shall I do?" asked Jennie. She was trembling, and seemed
much alarmed.

"Do? Why you don't have to do anything," the pony express rider answered.
"Let this inspector ask his questions, and then we'll see what course to
take."

"Oh, but suppose he finds something wrong--not the proper amount of stamps
on hand--I can't be sure I counted them right"

"Say, little girl, don't you worry!" Jack went on. "I don't believe this
fellow will do much questioning."

"Why, Jack, what makes you talk that way? He's a government inspector. He
told me so! Do you know him?"

"I rather think I do, but I'm not sure," Jack answered. Again there was a
grim shutting of his lips, and a determined look came into his eyes. "I
want to hear him speak first," the lad said "Then I can tell better."

The inspector, if such he were, had stopped outside the post office to
light a cigar. He sat easily on his big horse, and Jack could not help
admiring the noble animal. The man himself was a fine physical specimen,
but he had a hard, cruel face, and shifty eyes. There was no one in the
immediate vicinity of the post office at that time, for Jack had delivered
the mail an hour before, and he had sauntered back to the office, after
doing some errands about town, to have a talk with Jennie. The other mail
would not arrive for another hour, so there was no excuse for the gathering
of the crowd which always awaited the incoming mail.

Having lighted his cigar, the man again advanced slowly. He looked all
about, Jack thought, to see if he was likely to be interfered with, but
this may not have been so.

He dismounted with easy grace, and tied his horse to a post in front of the
office. Then he sauntered in. Jack sat down in a chair behind a door, out
of sight. He did not want the inspector to see him until the right moment.

"Well, Miss--er--Blake, I believe you said your name was," began the man,
and his tone was insolent, "I suppose you are ready to have me go over your
accounts now?"

Jack started at the sound of his voice.

"That's the fellow--I'm positive of it!" he thought "Now I've got him--got
one of them, anyhow! Oh, this is luck!"

Jack's eyes gleamed.

Jennie hardly knew what to make of the situation. She half expected Jack to
do something, or say something, to help her.

Still she was postmistress, and only she was qualified to answer the
official questions. But if something was wrong?

"Well, then maybe Jack will help me out," she thought. She was trembling
and was much upset. It was the first time an inspector had called at her
little office.

"Now, I want to see the records of the registered mail, going and coming,
Miss Blake. I also must check over your stamps and cash. Have you had in,
lately, any special delivery stuff?"

"Why, yes--that is--Oh, I hardly know where to begin," said the flustered
girl, wishing Jack would say something, "You see I've never been inspected
before."

"Humph!" sneered the man. "You act as though something was wrong. Most
offices where I go don't have such nervous persons in charge. If everything
is all right you have nothing to fear. Perhaps you had better step outside
and let me go over matters myself. That would be better, and you wouldn't
be so nervous.

"If everything is all right you have nothing to fear, and if there is
something wrong, well, I'll be as easy in my report to Washington as I can.
I won't make it too hard for you. Yes, I think that will be best. Just
leave the office to me for a little while."

Jennie flashed, over the man's head, a look at Jack in the corner behind
the door. The young pony express rider had arisen, and, to her alarm,
Jennie saw his hand go toward the pocket where she knew he carried his
revolver--a new one since the robbers had taken his first one.

Jennie wanted to scream.

"Just run along, little girl, and let me have the place to myself," the man
urged.

It was time for Jack to act.

He fairly sprang out from behind the door and confronted the man.

"Are you sure," Jack asked, "that if she left the post office to you that
you wouldn't run off with it?"

The man started back. He turned a little pale, and then a flood of red
surged into his face. He seemed to recover himself with an effort.

"I--I don't know what you mean. Who are you?" he demanded, curtly.

"Never mind who I am, but who are you?" and Jack fairly shot out the words.

"Why, I'm the post office inspector for this district," was the answer, and
again the man's tone was sneering. "Are you connected with the department,
if I may ask?"

"I am," said Jack, grimly.

"In what capacity?"

"Pony express rider!" shot out Jack. "The same pony express rider that you
and your gang of outlaws held up not long ago! I know you now. I was sure
of you the minute I set eyes on you on that big horse, and when I heard
your voice I was doubly sure. Wearing your mask didn't help any. I know
you! You're no more a post office inspector than I am. You're a post office
robber, that's what you are!"

The man started to speak, but stopped suddenly. As Jack was about to draw
his weapon to order the man to submit, the fellow with a sudden leap was
out of the place. In another instant he had jumped to the back of his
horse, yanking loose the tie rope as he leaned over the saddle. Then with a
clatter of hoofs he was off.

Jennie screamed, but Jack, flashing past her to get outside, yelled:

"Stop him! Get after him! He's one of the fellows who held up the mail, and
robbed me! Stop him!"

Jack fired in the air to attract attention, for the neighborhood was
deserted. He could not bring himself to fire at the man, nor even at the
splendid horse. Though the provocation was great, and though Jack would
have been justified, he could not do it.

"Stop him! He's a post office robber!" Jack yelled, again firing a shot
Then, leaping on the back of his pony which was waiting for him outside the
building, Jack gave chase after the escaping outlaw.

"We've got to get him, Sunger!" he cried. "We've got to get him!"




CHAPTER XV


A CAUTION

Shots always attract attention, especially in a western community where
they usually mean something. In cities there are so many noises constantly
being heard, and back-fires and tire blow-outs from automobiles so nearly
resemble the discharge of firearms, that if a revolver actually were to be
fired in a crowded street it is hardly likely that it would attract notice.

But in the quiet little western town of Golden Crossing shots were rather a
novelty. The place was peaceful and law-abiding, and, as was said, when
pistol reports were heard, there usually was some good reason for them.

In consequence, when Jack shot off his revolver, it was not long before the
main street in front of the post office was thronged.

Men came rushing out of stores and houses, and there appeared also not a
few women and children. Jack, racing down the street after the escaping
outlaw, looked back and saw that he was able to call for reinforcements.
One man had already jumped on his horse and was joining in the chase.

"What's the row?"

"It's one of the men who held me up!" exclaimed Jack in answer.

"We'll get him!" was yelled back, and several more men hurried to loosen
the tie-straps of their horses to lend their aid.

"I don't know whether we'll get him or not," Jack mused, as he urged his
pony on. "He's got a good start of us, and that horse of his can go some,
or I miss my guess. Besides, he's a regular ox, and can keep going for
hours at a time.

"You're all right, Sunger, and there isn't a better pony living," Jack went
on, "but it's like putting a little runabout auto up against a big racing
car. It isn't equal. Still we'll do our best."

Several men were now taking part in the chase. The first one who had heard
what Jack said had passed the word to the others, and the posse, so hastily
organized, understood what sort of man they were after.

Some of the men were miners, and others were rough characters--that is
rough in the sense that they lived in the open and were ready for whatever
came along. Some of them began firing their "guns," as they called their
revolvers, but there was no chance of hitting the fleeing man, as he was
now out of sight beyond a turn in the trail. Realizing this the men fired
in the air, hoping, perhaps, that the sound of the shots would intimidate
the fellow, and cause him to stop.

But the man ahead was made of as stern and as desperate stuff as were the
majority of his pursuers. He must have known that Jack had recognized him,
and he realized the penalty if he were caught. So he made up his mind that
he would not be taken.

Jack was the nearest to him, and as the pony express rider caught
occasional glimpses of the fellow, he saw him beating his horse to urge the
magnificent animal to still greater speed.

"There's no use trying to catch him," thought Jack, "he's got too much of a
start, and his horse can beat anything around here. I guess he knows that."

Still Jack would not have given up had not something occurred that made it
absolutely certain that the chase was useless.

Coming to a bit of soft ground Sunger stumbled and fell, throwing Jack
cleanly over his head. Fortunately the lad landed on a bank of thick ferns,
so that his fall only jarred him. The pony was not hurt, and soon scrambled
to his feet and looked at his owner, Jack imagined, with a sort of
apologetic expression.

"I know you couldn't help it, Sunger, old boy," the lad said. "It wasn't
your fault."

He limped toward his steed and patted him. Then Jack saw that one of his
saddle girths had broken. With that unmended it would be useless to try to
continue the pursuit. The saddle would slip from under him, and bareback
riding on the mountain trail is out of the question.

Jack realized this, and when the first of the posse came up it was decided
to abandon the pursuit for the time being.

"We can't get him now, but maybe we can trail him later," said Jack.
"There's no use in my going on."

"No. And you'll be needed to carry the mail," a man replied. "The stage
will be in soon. You'd better get back. Some of us will plan to follow the
fellow. We can ask along the way, and maybe get trace of him. If so, we'll
let you know."

One or two of the pursuers who had no special duties to take them back to
the town agreed to follow the trail of the pursued one for some distance
further. The others went back with Jack, temporary mending having been done
to the saddle girth.

"Well, he got away, Jennie," said Jack, regretfully, as he entered the post
office again.

"I'm glad of it!" she exclaimed impulsively.

"What!" he cried

"I mean for your sake," she added. "He might have shot you, Jack!"

"Oh, thanks for your care," he laughed, "But I wish we could have gotten
him. It would be a big feather in my cap."

"I don't care for caps with feathers," Jennie retorted. "But what in the
world do you suppose he wanted, Jack? And why did he pass himself off as a
post office inspector?"

"So he could have a chance to look over your records And he may have
thought there was something of value in the waiting mail that he could take
away with him, if he got you out of the place.

"That was his game. You see the gang of outlaws didn't even make what might
be called expenses out of their hold-up of me. They had their trouble for
their pains, and I suppose they were wild when they found out the valuable
letters they took were only dummies.

"Probably the fellow thought the real letters might be coming along soon
now, and he wanted to get them. I guess he must be the head one of the
crowd that is trying to get control of the secret mine Mr. Argent is going
to work. Those fellows are desperate. But this one didn't get anything."

"He came near it, though," Jennie said. "Only for you I suppose I would
have been foolish enough to go out and leave him in the office alone. There
wasn't much he could take, however. But I did get a new supply of stamps
yesterday, nearly fifty dollars' worth. If he had taken them--"

"He wasn't looking for any such small change as stamps," said Jack. "I know
what he was after--it was the real Argent letters. Well, he got away from
us, more's the pity, though the men may overhaul him later. Now I've got to
get ready for the back trip."

But Jack did not have to make it that night. The incoming mail was late and
as there was nothing of importance to go through, Jack followed the
previous instructions he had received and remained in Golden Crossing.

He was glad he did not have to take the night Tide. His pony was quite
shaken up by the fall, and a little lame. Jack himself felt sore and stiff,
and it was much pleasanter to remain with his relatives, spending the
evening in Jennie's company, than to ride the lonely mountain trail after
dark.

Late that night the men who had kept on with the pursuit came back to
report that they had lost the trail of the man they were after. He had made
good his escape, at least for the time being.

"But we'll get him yet!" some of them boasted.

"They won't if he gets a start on that horse of his," thought Jack.

When Jack made his appearance at the Mansion Hotel the next morning to
deliver the mail, and take that which was to go back to Golden Crossing,
the pony express rider was met by Mr. Argent.

"Just a word with you, Jack," said the miner. "You remember the bogus
letters that were taken away from you, I suppose?"

"I should say I did!" Jack exclaimed. "Why, have they found them?"

"No. But it doesn't matter about them. I want to tell you now that the real
papers and letters--the ones that contain the information about the
mine--may be along any day or night now. And I want to ask you to be
specially careful about them."

"I will, Mr. Argent."

"I know you will, Jack, but I want to caution you, not only about them, but
about your own safety. There are a number of desperate men who would go
almost any length to get possession of that package of documents. So be on
your guard."

Mr. Argent suddenly ceased speaking and looked around. They were out in
front of the hotel, near a clump of bushes. Without saying anything further
Mr. Argent suddenly made a leap behind the shrubbery.




CHAPTER XVI


SUNGER GOES LAME

Jack was on the alert, ready to follow, but there was no need. Mr. Argent
came back with a grim smile on his bronzed face.

"I thought I heard a movement there, as if some one were listening," he
said, "but it was a false alarm."

"Are they trailing you as closely as that?"

"Yes, and more so," was the answer. "There's a big fight on to get this
mine away from me and my friends, but we're going to beat our enemies.
They'd give anything to get the information that is to come to me through
the mail, and that's why I'm always on the lookout, fearing some one may
overhear what I say."

"But I thought you knew where the mine is," said Jack.

"So I do, and I'm one of the very few men who do know the exact location."

"Then why are you expecting information through the mail that will disclose
the place where it is?"

"You don't exactly understand," was the reply. "You see, after the man who
first located the mine came back with some rich samples of gold from it, he
died, and the place where he had made the strike was lost for some time.
Then the documents giving the location were found by those entitled to
share the wealth, and I came in on the deal.

"Now, in order to have everything perfectly legal it was necessary, in this
particular case, to send to the authorities to have our titles made good.
To do that we had to describe exactly where the mine was located. We had to
send this information to the government officials in San Francisco. But of
course our secret is safe with them.

"The trouble is, however, that they are now sending back to us our original
documents, which give the location of the mine, and with them come our
proofs to the claim, our legal title so to speak. Of course all these
papers contain the written description of the location of the mine. If
these papers fall into the hands of the men who are working against us they
may jump our claim, as they call it, for it is not yet legally secured to
us.

"That is why I am so anxious not to have the expected letters lost. So if
you get them, Jack, take good care of them."

"You can make sure I will!" exclaimed the pony rider.

"Oh, I'm not worrying about you, Jack. I mean I know I can trust you, just
as I could have trusted your father were he on the express route. It's the
other fellows I'm worrying about. They held you up once, Jack, and--"

"They won't get a second chance!" exclaimed the lad, with flashing eyes.
"I'll be on the watch."

"Well, they're pretty foxy and cunning," went on the miner. "It's treachery
more than anything else you have to fear now; treachery and guile. They'll
try them now they've found out their hold-up methods didn't work!"

"Well, they may try them again," said Jack, "but they won't catch me
napping again."

"Oh, I guess you weren't napping, Jack."

"No, not exactly. It all happened so suddenly they didn't give me a chance.
Though I suppose that was their game. Well, I'll do my best."

"I know you will, Jack. Now, as I said, I don't know just when the
documents will come. If I did I'd be there myself, and bring 'em through. I
wouldn't ask you to take the risk."

"Oh, the risk is part of the game," Jack said.

"I know it is, but I don't believe in anybody--man or boy--taking too many.
But, not knowing when they'll arrive, I'll have to trust the regular mail
service. Only one thing, Jack. Don't bring them through at night. I mean by
that, don't make a night trip just for my papers. Of course, if you have to
make a night ride anyhow, and the documents arrive at Golden Crossing,
bring them along with you. But don't make a special trip on their account,
as there is no rush about them. I suppose you can depend on the people at
the other end of the line--I mean in the Golden Crossing office?"

"Well, I should say I could!" declared Jack, energetically. "Jennie Blake
is postmistress there and--"

"Oh, I forgot. She's a relative of yours, isn't she?"

"Yes," answered Jack, and he blushed under his coat of tan.

"Well then of course it's all right. I am not greatly worried about the
transportation from San Francisco to Golden Crossing. It's from there to
here the documents will be taken, if at all."

"They won't be taken at all!" declared Jack. Of course, he was boyishly
enthusiastic. For that one can not blame him. He was deeply interested in
his work. To him it meant everything. He wanted to bring the mail through
safe, and on time every trip. And, so far, he had more than made good.

That one hold-up did not count against him, especially as he had so soon
recovered the bulk of the stuff.

"Well, I guess that's all I have to say to you, Jack," concluded the miner.
"As I remarked, I can't say just when the papers will arrive. And when they
do--well, take the best care of them you can."

"I wonder how it would do to try another ruse, and hide them, say in a
loosely tied package, that looked as if it didn't contain anything more
valuable than a pair of old shoes?"

"That might answer. But as you tried that game once, and it didn't work, it
would hardly deceive the outlaws a second time. But use your own judgment,
Jack. I leave it all to you. Only bring me the papers, and don't let the
other fellows get them."

"I won't!"

"Shake!" exclaimed the miner, and their hands met in a firm clasp.

Jack rode the trail that day, reaching Golden Crossing with the packages
and letters.

"Well, Jennie," he remarked, "the game is on."

"What game?" she asked. "I hope you don't mean any more bogus inspectors
are coming here."

"No. I mean that any time now that package of mine documents may reach
here. When it does, put it in the safe if I'm not here."

"And what are you going to do with it?"

"Carry it to Rainbow Ridge, of course."

"Oh, Jack! Suppose something happens?" half whispered Jennie.

"Well, I hope it doesn't. And I'm going to do my best to see that something
doesn't happen. But if it does, well, I'll have to put up with it, I
suppose," Jack said, with a shrug of his shoulders.

"I almost hope the old package doesn't come," murmured Jennie, with a pout
of her pretty lips.

"Oh, that wouldn't do," said Jack. "It's very valuable and important. And
that's what the pony express is for--to transport speedily valuable and
important packages and letters. I'll make out all right, I guess."

"I--I hope so," she faltered.

For several days after that Jack watched the mails anxiously for a sight of
the package of documents relating to the mine. But it did not come, and as
he made each trip he planned what to do at certain points of the road,
where he might possibly be held up again.

"Though it's a question, just as Mr. Argent says, whether they would try
the same tactics twice," Jack reasoned. "They may try some other game. I'll
have to be on the watch for both."

Mr. Argent himself was getting anxious now. Each time Jack came into
Rainbow Ridge from his trip, the miner asked if the letters had come. Each
time Jack answered in the negative.

"Well, they'll be along any day now," Mr. Argent would say. "Be on the
lookout."

Jack was idling about the Golden Crossing post office about a week after he
had received the caution to be on his guard. He was waiting for the stage
to come in with the western mail, with which he expected to make the ride
back to Rainbow Ridge.

A dusty messenger rode up on a tired and lather-covered horse, and called
to Postmistress Jennie:

"Is the pony express rider here?"

"Yes," answered Jack, coming forward. "What's wanted?"

"Stage has had a bust-up a little way out," the messenger said. "I come in
to get help, and to say that the driver wants to see you."

"Wants to see me?"

"Yes, he's got a bundle of mail that's marked '_Rush_,' and he wants to
know if you can ride out there, get it and take it on to Rainbow Ridge."

"Well, I suppose I can," Jack said, "though it isn't regular."

"No, he told me to tell you he knowed that. And he said he'd have sent the
mail in by me, only there's some valuable stuff in it, and he wants a
regular man to take it. So will you go out?"

"I think I'd better, yes. How far out is the stage?"

"About five miles. Half way between Bosford and Tuckerton," was the answer.

"All right, I'll ride out and get the mail," decided Jack, and in due time
he arrived at the place where the stage had been delayed because of a
broken wheel. The mail was transferred to Jack, and he started back with
it.

"I wonder if the important letters can be in this bag," mused Jack, as he
urged Sunger onward. There was no way of telling.

The stage, as the messenger had said, had broken down half way between
Bosford and Tuckerton. These were two small settlements, the last one being
about three miles from Golden Crossing.

As Jack was passing through the eastern outskirts of Tuckerton he noticed
that Sunger was limping slightly.

"Hello! What's this? Got a stone under your shoe?" he exclaimed, as he got
off. He made an examination and found that such was the case. Sunger had
gone lame, though not so badly but that, with the removal of the stone, the
animal could be ridden.

"I'll fix you up," Jack said, as he guided the pony to a shady spot on the
trail, and proceeded to get out a simple kit he carried with him for
emergencies.




CHAPTER XVII


AN INVITATION DECLINED

Jack's first idea was that he could soon and easily remove from between the
hoof and shoe the small stone that was making his pony lame. But when he
got to work at it, with a peculiarly shaped hook, such as is used for that
purpose, the lad found the work was going to take longer than he had
anticipated.

"But it's got to be done, old boy," he said, addressing the little horse.
"It's got to be done, and I've got to do it. I can't very well walk you to
the blacksmith shop back in town, for you'd be lamer than ever, and I'd
probably have to stable you; and I can't leave you with the mail and go and
get the smith to come out here. So I've got to do the work myself. I'll be
a little late with the mail, but it can't be helped."

Jack realized that he would have a good excuse to offer for not getting
back to Rainbow Ridge on time, as he had had to go out of his usual route
to bring in the mail to Golden Crossing, which was still some miles away.

"They can't expect me to do two men's work in the time of one, and
especially when my pony goes lame," Jack murmured, as he worked over the
stone, which persisted in staying where it had become wedged.

"Well, old boy, I don't seem to be coming along very fast," Jack went on,
as he sat down to rest, for the day was hot, and, in spite of being in the
shade, he felt the heat very much.

"I don't want to loosen your shoe too much, or it will come off, and then
I'd be in a worse pickle than ever," he continued, talking aloud, as he
frequently did when on the trail. "And yet if I don't, I can't see how I'm
going to get at that stone. Well, we'll have another try in a minute."

Sunger did not seem to mind the rest. He began quietly cropping grass by
the wayside when Jack let down the hoof in which the stone was imbedded. As
long as the pony rested no weight on that foot he was all right. It was
when he walked or galloped with Jack and the sacks of mail on his back,
bringing pressure to bear, that the lameness was noticeable.

Again the young express rider busied himself with the task. He shook his
head over the work, for it seemed more and more impossible to get the stone
out without taking off the shoe, and that would mean going back to the
blacksmith's shop to have it nailed on again.

"Regular nuisance, having this happen," said Jack. "But of course I know it
isn't your fault, Sunger."

The sound of hoof-beats on the trail caused Jack to look up as he was
bending over the shoe. He saw riding toward him a stranger. The latter drew
up his horse, nodded in friendly fashion, and remarked:

"You seem to be having some trouble there."

"Yes," Jack admitted. "Pony's gone lame. Got a stone under his shoe, and I
don't seem to get it out."

"A bad thing in your business, I should judge," the man went on. "Pony
express rider, aren't you?"

That could be told by a glance at the mail sacks.

"Yes," Jack answered, for the man seemed anxious to be friendly. "I ride
between Golden Crossing and Rainbow Ridge."

"Sort of out of your way here, aren't you?"

"Yes. I had to ride out to get the mail. Stage broke down again. I'm going
in to Golden Crossing now, and then on to the Ridge. That is, I am if I can
get this stone out."

"Say, if you don't mind, let me have a chance at it," suggested the man,
getting off his horse with an ease that showed he was accustomed to the
saddle. "I used to know something about smithy work, and I've got a better
hook than the one you're using."

"Well, if you don't mind, I wish you would have a try," said Jack,
straightening up his bent and aching back. "It seems to have gotten the
best of me."

The stranger patted Sunger, who sniffed at him and seemed satisfied. The
pony rubbed his velvet nose against the man's coat. This was his way of
making friends. Sunger did not do this with every one, either, and Jack
felt more interest in the newcomer on that account.

"Now, let's see what we have here," the man went on, as he lifted the
pony's lame foot. "Oh, my name's Ryan," he added, as an afterthought.

"And mine's Jack Bailey," said our hero, completing the introduction.

"Glad to meet you. I'm riding your way, and I'll go on with you after I get
you fixed up, or, rather, your pony.

"Think you can do it?" Jack asked.

"Oh yes, I'll soon have this out. You almost had it yourself, but you were
working at it the wrong way."

He proved that he knew what he was talking about a few minutes later, by
exclaiming:

"There it is!"

He held up the stone that had caused all the trouble. It was of peculiar
shape, which accounted for the manner in which it had become wedged fast.

"Thanks!" Jack exclaimed. "Now the question is about the shoe. Is it so
loose that I can't go on?"

"It is a bit loose," the man said. "But I can fix that for you. I carry a
spare shoe or two myself. They wouldn't fit your pony, for they are too
large. But I've got a hammer and nails in my saddle bags. I ride about a
good bit, and my nag often casts a shoe, so I go prepared. I'll have this
one tightened up in a jiffy."

Jack watched Ryan interestedly. The man seemed very capable, and it is
often the custom of cowboys or range riders to carry with them spare shoes,
nails and a hammer, to reset a shoe of their mounts when far from a
blacksmith shop.

In a few minutes the shoe was as tight as necessary, and Jack could again
mount his pony and ride on.

"I'm a thousand times obliged to you," he said to Ryan. "It was quite a
job, wasn't it?"

"Well, yes. Not so hard as some I've tackled, though. But it's a warm day,
and I think after that we're entitled to a little refreshment. What do you
say?"

For a moment Jack did not understand.

"Refreshment," he repeated. "There's no place around here where you can get
anything to eat. No places short of going back to Tuckerton. And I'm not
hungry enough for that."

"Hungry? Shucks, no! I'm not myself. I wasn't talking about anything to
eat. I meant something to drink."

"Oh," said Jack, and a queer sort of feeling came over him. "Well, there's
no ice cream soda place around here, either," and he smiled.

"Ice cream soda? Shucks! I'm talking about a man's drink! And I don't need
any one to wait on me, either. I carry it with me. It's safer in case of
emergency," and he laughed in what he evidently meant to be taken as a
friendly fashion.

"Here, have a smile with me," he went on, producing a pocket flask. "It's
stuff I can recommend," he added. "It'll do you good after working over
that shoe. Come on, help yourself, and then I'll take what you leave,
though there's plenty in that bottle, and more where that came from."

He held out a dark flask to Jack.

Jack backed away and shook his head.

"No, thank you," he said, firmly.

"What!" the man exclaimed in seeming surprise. "You don't drink?"

"No," Jack replied. "It wouldn't do in my business, you know. Besides, I
wouldn't drink anyhow."

"Oh, shucks! Just one wouldn't hurt you, and there's no one to know. Your
boss won't find it out, for I won't tell. After going through what you have
you need a drink."

"Perhaps I do," said Jack with a smile, wiping the perspiration from his
forehead, "but I don't want that kind of a drink. There's a spring just a
few steps on, and it's the coldest and best water for miles around. I'm
going to have some of that, and give the pony some, too. Your horse would
appreciate it, I think."

"Humph! Water may be all right for horses, but I don't care for it," was
the somewhat sneering answer. "Then you won't drink with me, Jack Bailey?"

"No, thank you. I'll join you in a tin dipper of spring water, but that's
all."

"Well, if you won't you won't, I suppose," the man said, slowly. "Everybody
to their notion. I don't take much, but I like a little now and then. So
here goes."

Jack did not stay to see what the man did, but walked on to the spring with
Sunger. The pony showed no trace of lameness, now, for which Jack was glad,
as he had a hard ride ahead of him.

As the lad was getting himself a drink, and letting Sunger get some from a
pool below the spring, Jack heard the sound of a galloping horse, and
looked up in surprise.




CHAPTER XVIII


A QUEER FEELING

Jack's first thought was that Ryan had ridden off in haste after having
helped himself to a drink from the flask, but, somewhat to his surprise, he
saw the man who had removed the stone from the pony's hoofs still standing
beside his horse. The galloping came from another rider who seemed in
haste. He waved his hand to Jack, and cried:

"Hold on! Wait!"

"Well, I wonder what's up now?" mused the pony express lad. "He seems to
want me."

"I was afraid I wouldn't catch you," exclaimed the young fellow who had
ridden up in such haste. Jack recognized him then as Harry Montgomery, an
employee of the stage line that ran out of Golden Crossing to the west.

"Do you want me?" Jack asked.

"Yes. They forgot to give you some important mail stuff when you rode out
to the stage a while ago. The stage has come on into Tuckerton now, and the
driver sent me on to see if I could catch you. He wants you to ride back
into town, if you will, and get the stuff he forgot to give you."

"Why didn't he let you bring it?" asked Jack, not much relishing the ride
back. It would delay him still further, and he had enough valuable mail in
his possession now without wishing for any more.

"The driver said he didn't like to have me carry it, as I'm not supposed to
do that. Besides he wants you to receipt for it. But if I couldn't catch up
to you I guess he intended to hold the stuff over until your next trip."

"Oh well, as long as it's only a case of a mile's ride back to Tuckerton, I
suppose I'd better do it," Jack reasoned. "You wouldn't have caught me,
only my pony went lame and I was delayed getting the stone out," he said to
Harry. This gentleman helped me."

"Oh, it wasn't much," said Ryan, nodding to Harry. The latter did not
appear to know him. The flask which had been in so much evidence a little
while before was not in sight now.

"Yes, I'll ride back and get the stuff," Jack decided. It had come into his
mind that perhaps the forgotten package contained the letters Mr. Argent
was expecting. They might have been sent by special mail, and not be in the
regular sacks. It would be best for Jack to go, though he would be delayed.

"And if it's too late, and if I think they are the letters about the secret
mine, I won't do any night-riding," Jack decided, mentally.

"Well, I'm glad I caught you," Harry said, as he turned his horse about.

"Yes, it would have been too bad if you had had your ride for nothing," the
pony express lad said. "Well, Sunger, old boy, we'll hit the back trail
again for a little while," and Jack swung himself up into the saddle.

Somewhat to Jack's surprise, when Ryan mounted, he, also, turned his
horse's head in the direction of Tuckerton.

"Are you going back, too?" Jack asked him.

"Yes, I guess I might as well."

"But I thought you were going to Golden Crossing."

"So I am. But it just occurred to me that I am hungry, and there's an
eating place in Tuckerton, isn't there?"

"Yes," answered Harry. "But it isn't a very good one."

"Oh, well, when a man's hungry he can't be too particular. I guess I can
stand it."

The three rode back together, and in a short time had reached the small
town. The stage had pulled in, temporary repairs having been made, and the
driver who handed Jack a sealed package expressed regret at having to bring
him back.

"It was all my fault, too," the driver said. "I ought to have remembered
about this special package, for they told me there was some hurry about it.
But I was sort of knocked out by the accident, and it slipped my mind. I'm
glad you've got it now."

Jack looked at it. The packet might contain letters, though it did not look
large enough to hold maps of any size. And, to Jack's surprise, it was
addressed, not to Mr. Argent, but to the postmaster at Rainbow Ridge. He
had been so sure that it was the valuable letters and papers the miner
expected that for the moment Jack almost expressed his astonishment. But
Ryan and some others were standing near-by, and the lad felt it better to
keep still.

Besides, the letters Mr. Argent expected might be in the regular mail bags,
which Jack carried on his saddle, those bags not having been opened since
he received them from the broken-down stage.

"Well, I guess now you're all right," the stage driver went on. "You can
get on your way, Jack. I won't have to call you back again."

"I hope not. I'm late enough as it is."

"I'm sorry, my boy."

"Well, it couldn't be helped, I suppose. I don't want to make a night trip,
If I can help it."

"Do you often do that?" asked Ryan.

"Oh, occasionally. But since I was held up once I don't hanker after it."

"Were you held up?" Ryan seemed much interested.

"Yes," Jack said, but he did not go into details. He had no time.

"I say!" exclaimed Ryan, as Jack was about to ride off again. "It wouldn't
be a bad idea for you to have a blacksmith look at that shoe I fixed. I did
the best I could, but I can't guarantee that it will stay on. There's a
smithy right across the way."

"I believe I will do that," Jack said. "It won't be any joke if Sunger
casts a shoe when I get on the mountain trail. I'll take him over to the
shop."

The smith was busy, but Jack decided to wait.

"I'll have plenty of time if I don't have to make a night ride," he
remarked.

"Say, while you're waiting," suggested Ryan, who had followed Jack over to
the blacksmith shop, "why not come and have a bite to eat with me. You
wouldn't drink with me, but you can't object to eating."

He seemed so much in earnest about it, and so friendly, that Jack did not
like to refuse. After all, Ryan had been very helpful to him, and the
matter of drinking Jack could overlook. It was more or less a settled
custom in the West, anyhow.

"I'm not very hungry," Jack began, "but--"

"Oh, well, come and have a cup of coffee," suggested Ryan. "It won't take
long, and by the time we're through with our little snack your pony will be
ready for you. Come along."

"All right," Jack agreed, and he followed his new acquaintance across the
street to a small restaurant. Jack ordered a sandwich and a cup of coffee,
but Ryan called for a more substantial meal.

"And I'll have mine in a hurry, if you don't mind," said Jack to the
waiter. "I've got to get back on the trail."

"Have it right away," was the answer.

Jack sipped some of his coffee, and ate the sandwich. He was waiting for
the beverage to cool somewhat before taking the remainder, when Ryan,
nodding in the direction of the entrance to the restaurant, toward which
Jack had his back, said:

"Is that a friend of yours? He seems to be looking for some one."

Jack turned. A man was standing in the doorway of the eating place, his
eyes roving about as though looking for somebody, but Jack did not know
him, nor did the stranger show any sign of interest in the pony express
rider.

Jack turned back in time to see Ryan setting down the cup of coffee from
which Jack had been drinking.

"Huh! That's one on me!" laughed the man. "I picked up your cup for my own.
Don't worry though. I didn't drink any of your coffee."

"That's all right," Jack said, pleasantly. "I'll finish now, and get
along."

"Well, good luck to you," returned Ryan. "I'll stay and finish my meal," he
added. "Good-bye. Glad to have met you."

"Good-bye," answered Jack. "Much obliged for your help, and for this feed."

"Shucks! I don't call that much of a feed. Leave me the checks, waiter.
Well, I may see you again," he called, with a wave of his hand as Jack went
out.

"Yes, I'm back and forth quite often, though I seldom get to Tuckerton,
unless there's some accident to the stage," the lad said.

He found his pony's shoe had been properly tightened, and the animal was
now ready for him. Jack paid his smithy bill, jumped up to the saddle and
rode on through the town again.

"We'll have to make time," whispered the lad to his pony, making sure that
the mail sacks were securely fastened, and that he had the sealed packet
which he had ridden back to get. "Yes, Sunger, we'll make time, so in case
we do have to make a night ride we won't be delayed too long. Queer chap,
that Ryan," mused Jack. "It was good of him to blow me to coffee. But I
can't say I think much of that eating place. That was about the poorest
coffee I've had in a good while. Whew! The bitterness of it is in my mouth
yet! I'll wash it out with a drink of water when I get to the spring again.
I wonder what Ryan's business is, and where he is headed for? He must be
pretty hungry to order so much eating stuff."

If Jack could have looked back into the restaurant he would have been
surprised to see the same Ryan hastily leave, soon after he himself had
come out. And the same Ryan left most of his dinner untouched.

"What's the matter, don't you like the grub?" asked the waiter, as Ryan
hurried out.

"Sure, it's all right!" and he tossed him a tip. "But I forgot I had an
engagement," and with that he jumped into his saddle and rode off. But not
in the direction Jack had taken.

"My, my!" said Jack, talking to himself as he galloped along, "that coffee
certainly was bitter. It seems to be getting worse--that taste in my mouth.
I believe it's giving me a head ache, too. I certainly do feel queer--sort
of dizzy. Maybe it was the hot sun. I'll cool off at the spring. But I do
feel so queer," and Jack passed his hand across his forehead.




CHAPTER XIX


A DESPERATE RIDE

Nearing the spring, where he had taken a drink before that day, Jack was
about to dismount to get some cooling water. But such a strange feeling of
weakness and dizziness came over him that he had to hold himself in the
saddle.

"I--I'm afraid if I get out I won't be able to get up again," he murmured
weakly. "Sunger, what's the matter with me, I wonder?"

Then, ill as he felt himself becoming, like a flash an idea came to Jack.
The meaning of it all came to him instantly.

"I've been drugged!" he said, hoarsely. "That Ryan! That was his game. He
drugged my coffee, that time when he made me turn around! I saw him putting
back my cup! He put some drug in my coffee to make me unconscious!"

For a moment the thought of the desperate trick that had been played on him
made Jack so angry that he succeeded in fighting off the feeling of
weakness and dizziness. But it was only for a moment. Then it came back
with increasing distress.

"That was the game," he murmured, scarcely able to see now. "He probably
had doped the whiskey in that flask, but I didn't take that. Then he
watched his chance, urged me to take something to eat with him, and put
some drug in my coffee. No wonder it tasted bitter and queer! What a
simpleton I was to take it! But I did not know."

Jack was reeling in the saddle. The pony sensed that something was wrong
with his master, and stopped.

"No, don't stop! Go on! Go on!" urged Jack. "Oh, what am I going to do?" he
murmured. "I'm on a lonely trail, with the valuable mail and express.
That's what Ryan counts on. He thinks I'll fall by the wayside and he can
come up and get what he wants when I'm unconscious.

"But what is it he wants? The Argent letters, of course. That's what he's
after! He's drugged me. He's going to give me time to fall in a faint, and
then he's coming along to rob the mail. The Argent letters must be in the
sacks that aren't opened. He must have found that out in some way, and have
been on the watch for me.

"But he won't get them. I'll not let him roll the mail!" cried Jack,
speaking aloud, and trying to put some fierce energy into his voice. But it
died away faintly.

"How can I stop him? How can I foil him?" mused the ill and almost fainting
rider. "I--I've got to do something. But what? I can't stay in the saddle
much longer. Go on, Sunger! Go on!"

For the pony had stopped again.

Jack wanted desperately to get a drink from the cold spring, but he dared
not.

"If I leave the saddle I'd not have strength to get up in it again," he
reasoned. "But I've got to do something! I've got to do something!"

He repeated the words over and over again, until they rang in his numbed
brain like the refrain of some song. Sunger did not know what to make of it
all. He could tell something was wrong, and whinnied once or twice. But
Jack was too ill to answer him, or pat him caressingly as he always did.

"Sunger, we've got to do something! We've got to do something to save the
mail!" whispered the poor lad. He was too weak to do more than whisper.

Jack tried to listen, and to ascertain if the outlaw who had played this
trick on him was coming behind him on the trail, for he realized that Ryan
would soon follow, to reap the fruits of his villany. But there was no
sound save the echo of Sunger's hoof-beats. It was getting late in the
afternoon.

Jack was reeling in the saddle now. He could hardly hold himself upright.
Once or twice he nearly fell out, but clutched the pommel in time. Once or
twice, too, the pony stopped, but Jack urged him on. He knew his only hope
lay either in reaching Golden Crossing, or in some one on the trail seeing
his plight and looking after him. But there was not much chance of this
last, for the disabled stage would not be along for some hours yet.

Then, as he thought of what it would mean to him to have the mail robbed a
second time while in his possession, a desperate plan came into Jack's
mind.

"I'll tie myself to the saddle!" he whispered "I've got plenty of rope for
that. I'll lash myself fast. Then if I do get unconscious, which I'm afraid
is going to happen, I won't fall out.

"And when I tie myself fast, Sunger," Jack went on, speaking as loudly as
he could; "when I'm lashed fast, and don't know anything, you've got to go
on and carry the mail--and me. You've got to take the mail safe through to
Jennie at Golden Crossing, and you've got to do it without my guidance. You
know the trail, Sunger! You've got to take the mail through! It's the only
way to save it!"

Jack felt that it was useless longer to try to fight off the effects of the
drug. It was too strong and powerful for him, and he realized that he must
have been given a heavy dose. He could hardly see now.

Jack carried with him a light but strong rope for often he had to tie mail
pouches on the saddle behind him. With hands that trembled, with his head
aching terribly, and his eyes burning, Jack managed to pass about his legs,
and under the saddle girths, several turns of the rope. He made himself
fast in the saddle, so he would not fall off.

Then, when the last knot had been tied and made secure, Jack fell forward
on his pony's neck.

"Go on, Sunger!" he said feebly. "Go on to Jennie and Golden Crossing. It's
my only chance. You've got to run now as you never ran before! You've got
to carry the mail! Go on, Sunger! Don't fail me now, or it will be all up
with dad and me! Don't fail, Sunger! Go on!"

With this last urging Jack's eyes closed, and he felt himself going off
into unconsciousness.

Then the brave and intelligent Sunger sprang forward. Somehow the pony must
have understood. At any rate, he knew that all haste must be made on the
trail. He was carrying the mail, and Jack always urged him to top speed on
such occasions.

With the instinct that characterizes dogs, horses and other animals, Sunger
knew that he must go on to the Post Office. Just what had happened to his
master, of course Sunger did not know. But it was something wrong--the pony
sensed that.

And so with the unconscious form strapped to the saddle, with Jack's head
pillowed on Sunger's neck, the plucky animal started to foil the plans of
the plotters. On and on he galloped over the mountain trail, Jack swaying
from side to side, but remaining safe because of the holding ropes.

It was about this time that Ryan, who, by a roundabout road, had reached
the trail leading from Tuckerton to Golden Crossing, looked at his watch in
a secluded place where he was waiting, and remarked:

"Well, it ought to be working by this time. I guess I'll amble along and
see what's doing. I ought to get the letters without any trouble. I
certainly dosed his coffee good and strong," and he smiled in an evil
fashion.

Springing into the saddle he urged his horse along the trail. He did not
hurry, for he wanted to give the drug time to work its full and stupefying
effect. Ryan was a different sort of worker from the other outlaws. He did
not believe in their rough and ready methods, but, instead, used sneaking
means, such as drugs, that were often no less successful.

"This hold-up work doesn't pay when you can get the same results without
attracting so much attention," he murmured as he rode on. "Now I wonder if
I had better take that last package they gave him. I don't believe the maps
will be in that, though. They must be in the sacks. I hope I have a key
that will fit the lock. I don't want to cut the bags if I can help it.

"If I can come up when he's lying unconscious, pick the locks, and get out
what I want, I can lock the mail pouches again, and he won't know he's been
robbed for some hours. That will give me that much more time to get away.
Yes, that's my best plan," and as Ryan rode along he examined several keys
which he took from a pocket. He had made his plans carefully.

It was not until the outlaw had reached a point near the spring that he
began to be at all concerned. Up to then he had felt sure of the result of
his desperate work.

"Why, I ought to have come upon him before this," he reasoned, wonderingly.
"That stuff would knock out a strong man, let alone a lad like him. He
ought to have fallen off, or have gotten off, and become unconscious before
this. I wonder if I made any mistake."

He went over in his mind the different points of his plot. It seemed
perfect. But where was his victim who should have been lying unconscious
beside the road?

"Something's wrong!" Ryan exclaimed, as he passed the spring. He looked
about. The trail was dusty, but he could sec no signs of Jack's having
dismounted, or indications that the lad had fallen and gotten up to the
saddle again.

"Something's wrong," Ryan repeated. Then he put spurs to his horse and
galloped down the trail toward Golden Crossing.




CHAPTER XX


AT GOLDEN CROSSING

"Jack is late, isn't he, Jennie?" asked Mrs. Blake, as she sat in the
Golden Crossing post office. She had finished her sewing, and had stopped
for a little chat.

"Well, you know he had to ride out and get the mail from the disabled stage
coach," replied the girl, as she made some entries in her books. "And
perhaps he had to go farther than the messenger said. There's plenty of
time, though."

"Well, he's late," Mrs. Blake repeated. "I hope he doesn't have to make a
night trip."

"So do I," her daughter murmured, as she thought of the time Jack had been
held up. "It isn't likely he will, though. You know, Mr. Perkfeld said he
needn't make those night trips any more unless there was something very
important."

"You never can tell when some important matter will come in though,"
resumed Mrs. Blake, after a pause, during which she had gone to the window
to peer down the trail in the direction from which Jack would come. "And
isn't he expecting something for Mr. Argent?"

"Yes, and that is the only thing I'm worrying about," confessed Jennie. "If
those letters come in Jack will be sure to want to ride off with them at
once, night or day. And we won't know when the letters do arrive until the
mail sacks come here and I open them."

"Well, it certainly is a risky business, this pony express," sighed her
mother.

"It wouldn't be so risky if it wasn't for those desperate outlaws, and the
other men who want Jack's position," Jennie said, her eyes flashing. "It
makes me so mad when I think what an unfair advantage they take that I wish
I were a man so I could help Jack fight them!"

"My!" laughed Mrs. Blake. "But I guess you're better off inside here, than
out on the mountain trail."

"Yes, I suppose so. That's all we women are good for, anyhow, to sit and
wait and worry!"

"Any one would think you were twice as old as you are," said Mrs. Blake
with a smile at her daughter. "Hark! Is that he coming?"

They both started toward the door, but, with a sigh of disappointment,
Jennie said:

"No, it's only Tim Mullane."

The red-haired, genial Irish lad entered with a grin.

"Jack not here yet?" he asked, with some surprise.

"Oh, I wish you wouldn't say that!" Jennie exclaimed, and her voice was not
her usual one.

"Why, what's the matter?" her mother asked, in some surprise.

"Oh, it makes me nervous when any one speaks about Jack's not being back.
It--it's just as if--as if something had happened to him!" she faltered.

"Oh sure, miss, what could happen to him?" asked Tim, seeing with his Irish
quickness "which way the wind blew."

"Nothing, of course," Jennie went on. "He just rode out to get the mail
because the stage was broken down. Maybe he knows there is nothing
important in it, so he can stay here all night."

"Of course," agreed Mrs. Blake. But to herself she said. "I do wish Jack
would come!"

There was nothing to do, however, save wait, and that is often the hardest
kind of work, as it is certainly the most nervous. Jennie and her mother
busied themselves about the post office, Jennie asking the advice of Mrs.
Blake on certain matters connected with the reports she had to send in to
the officials.

"I suppose there will be a real post office inspector along some day to go
over my accounts," she ventured.

"Perhaps," her mother admitted. "And if any more bogus ones come on the
scene, I hope I'm here--or that Jack is."

"Yes, Jack routed that other chap finely," said Jennie.

And so they waited for the return of the pony express rider.

Meanwhile, what of Jack? Brave and intelligent Sunger was galloping on with
his senseless burden. The pony seemed to know just what to do. He took the
easiest part of the mountain trail, avoiding places where he might stumble
or fall, for he seemed to realize that Jack's guiding and careful hand was
not at the reins now.

On and on galloped the animal, making the best speed he could, though the
trail was hard and steep in places.

Suddenly, from the road back of him, Sunger heard the sound of galloping.
The pony pricked up his ears. Another rider was coming. Who it might be
Sunger, of course, did not know. But the little pony had been trained never
to let another horse pass him from behind on the mail route. It was not so
much a matter of necessity as it was of pride, and Jack's pony now
increased his pace.

And then, at a level place on the trail, and one that was straight, where a
good view could be had ahead, there swung into view behind Sunger a horse,
carrying a man who was urging his mount on with whip, spur and voice.

"So that's why I didn't find him as I expected to!" exclaimed Ryan, for he
it was who was galloping behind the unconscious form of Jack Bailey. "He's
sticking to his horse, but he must be all in. That lad's got grit and
pluck, and I'm almost sorry I had to do him up. But I had to. We simply
must get the information about that mine, and this was the only plan I
thought would work. But he sure has grit and spunk to ride on with that
dose in him."

From where he was, Ryan could not see the device of ropes Jack had used to
prevent falling from the back of his pony during his unconsciousness. The
outlaw merely thought that Jack was only partly under the influence of the
drug, and that the youth was clinging with his arms about Sunger's neck.

"I wonder if I can ride him down?" mused the desperate man. "I've just got
to, that's all. I let him get too much the start, but I sure did think I'd
find him senseless beside the road!"

But Ryan reckoned without his host. Sunger was not going to be caught The
going was better now, and the little pony had the advantage of not carrying
as much weight as did the larger horse. Moreover, Sunger was naturally
fleeter.

So, though Ryan urged his own steed as he had seldom urged it before, the
gap between the two animals did not close up. In fact it seemed to widen,
and when Ryan saw that he became desperate.

"Who'd think he could beat me this way?" he asked himself. "No human being,
I thought, could keep his senses after that dose I put in his coffee. It
won't do him any permanent harm, that's one thing I'm glad of, for after a
lad has made the plucky fight he has I don't wish him harm, even if we have
to take desperate measures against him. He'll be all right again in a
couple of hours. But why doesn't he fall off?"

It was not until some time later that Ryan learned why, and then his
admiration for Jack increased. For, bad and unscrupulous as he was, Ryan
had once been a good man, and he could admire grit and fine qualities in
others, though he could not exercise them himself.

"I've got to get him soon, or we'll be plump into Golden Crossing, and then
the jig will be up, I fear," Ryan said fiercely. "They'll say I bungled the
job, and they'll try another hold-up, I suppose. For those letters are in
that mail, and we must have them!"

But as he galloped on for another quarter of a mile, it became increasingly
evident that Sunger was not to be overtaken. The louder the hoof-beats of
the other horse sounded, the faster the plucky little pony ran, though he
was now tiring. But he was game, all the way through, and never would give
up while he had an ounce of strength left in him.

"Well, there's only one way to end it," said Ryan aloud. He drew his
revolver. "I hate to shoot a fine little pony like that," the man went on,
"but I've got to stop him somehow, and I can't ride him down. It's the only
way!"

Carefully he took aim, and was about to pull the trigger. Then he hesitated
and lowered the weapon.

"No, I haven't the nerve," he muttered. "If I kill the pony he'll go over,
and the boy may be killed too. I can't do it. It goes against me. I'm bad
enough all the way through, but I'm not going to do anything like that, and
I'll tell the gang so. If I can't ride him down he'll have to get away, as
far as I'm concerned. I can't do that!"

He shoved the weapon back into the holster, and exclaimed:

"Now, you brute, I'm going to make you run!"

He whipped his own horse cruelly, and the animal, in terror, did respond
with a burst of speed. It came too late, however, for a few minutes later
the trail turned, and Ryan knew he was near Golden Crossing--too near for
safety.

"No use!" he muttered! "I've got to give up. I'll go and tell the gang.
Maybe they can get the letters some other way. They aren't in Rainbow Ridge
yet, and lots of things can happen on the road. I'll tell the gang and
we'll think up something new."

He reined in his nearly exhausted horse, and swung back down the trail,
riding slowly. Sunger, with his unconscious burden, kept on. The race was
almost run, and it was high time, for the pony was all but fagged out.

And then into the very streets of the mountain town went the little horse.
Straight through the streets, bearing unconscious Jack. And those who saw
wondered, though some may have guessed what had happened.

Several raced after Sunger, who was now abating some of his speed. For he
saw, just ahead of him, the post office. That was the goal for which he had
striven, and he seemed to realize that the race was won.

No one attempted to stop Sunger. They knew where he would go. And reaching
the rail where Jack always tied him at one side of the Golden Crossing post
office, the pony stopped. He spread his legs far apart, for he was
trembling from weariness.

"Oh, it's Jack!" cried Jennie, looking from the window to see the meaning
of the galloping, and of the strange cries. "It's Jack! Something has
happened!" she faltered, as she saw the unconscious form in the saddle.
"Oh, Mother! He--he's dead!"

Tim Mullane was at the side of the unconscious pony rider.

"No, he isn't dead!" he shouted, "but he's in a bad way. Here, some of yez
give me a hand and we'll loosen him up, and take him inside. Poor lad! He's
had a hard time!"




CHAPTER XXI


THE ARGENT LETTERS

They carried Jack inside, and laid him on a couch. Jennie and her mother
used what simple remedies they had at hand to rouse him from his
unconscious state. Tim took the exhausted pony to the stable, for Sunger
was much in need of rest.

"What was it? What happened to the pony Express?" asked several of the
crowd that had gathered outside when they had seen the animal canter up
with Jack on his back.

"I don't know what happened," replied the red-haired helper. "But maybe it
was Indians tied him that way, and was going to make his pony jump over a
cliff. Them Indians is fierce!"

"Indians! There aren't any around here!" said some one, laughing at Tim's
notion. Tim had not been out West long.

"More likely it was some of those hold-up fellows," suggested a man in the
throng. "Though why they should tie him to his horse Is more than I can
figure out."

"Well, Jack came through all right, or, rather, that smart pony of his
brought him," another voice said. "And he brought the mail safe!"

"That's what he did!" cried several.

Meanwhile inside the little cottage, part of which was given over to the
Golden Crossing post office, Jennie and her mother were working hard over
the unconscious form of Jack.

"I guess we'll have to send for the doctor, Jennie," finally said Mrs.
Blake. "I've tried ammonia and camphor, and he doesn't come to. He may be
badly hurt, thought it doesn't show."

"Oh, mother!" faltered the girl. "Poor Jack!"

"Eh? What's the matter? Who's calling me?" asked Jack himself in a faint
voice. It was as though he had murmured in his sleep. He slowly opened his
eyes.

"Oh, mother! It's all right! He's waking up!" Jennie exclaimed. "We won't
need a doctor right away. Oh, Jack, what happened you?"

Jack's senses were slowly but surely clearing. His head hurt him very much,
but that terrible, sick feeling was passing away. He was in a daze yet, and
the voices of Jennie and her mother seemed far away, indeed.

"Why I'm here--in the post office!" Jack suddenly exclaimed, with more
energy than before. His eyes were wide open now, and he looked about the
familiar room.

"Of course you're in the post office, or, rather, in our sitting room that
opens from it," said Jennie.

"But the mail! The mail!" Jack suddenly cried, trying to sit up. The motion
sent such a rush of blood to his head that he had to fall limply back.

"I--I'll be all right in a minute," Jack said, after a pause. "But what
about the mail? Tell me that! Did I bring it through safely?"

"That's what you did!" exclaimed Mrs. Blake. "It was safe on your saddle,
and you were tied fast to your pony. Who did that."

"I did it myself," Jack answered. "But I'm glad I brought the mail in
safely. I was afraid I couldn't do it, but I did."

"Do you mean to say you roped yourself fast that way?" demanded Jennie,
somewhat incredulously.

"I did," Jack replied.

"Why, the idea! We thought the hold-up men did."

"I did it to fool the hold-up rascals," said Jack. He was feeling better
every minute now, and when he had taken some of the spirits of ammonia Mrs.
Blake held out to him, his head cleared very much.

"One of them, named Ryan, put up a game on me," Jack explained. "He tried
to get me to take a drugged drink, and, when I refused, though of course I
didn't know it was drugged, he put some stuff in my coffee. Queer stuff it
must be. For it certainly knocked me out, but I don't feel nearly so bad
now."

Just what sort of drug it was that Ryan used on Jack was never revealed. It
was said later that the man himself had once been an expert chemist, and he
probably knew the secrets of drugs better than the average criminal.
Whatever it was he gave Jack, it left no harmful after effects, and for
that the pony rider was thankful.

"Do you want a doctor?" asked Mrs. Blake. "We'll send for one, Jack, if you
say so."

"No, I think I'll be all right," he answered. "I'm feeling better by the
minute. Oh, but I was sick!" and he shuddered at the recollection. "But
where is the mail?" he demanded, and this time he followed his question by
sitting up. "Where is it?" he repeated.

"Tim brought it in," Jennie replied. "I haven't opened it yet. There was so
much excitement when we saw what a state you were in that I let the mail
wait. There's a crowd outside now, waiting to hear the story."

"Well, I don't feel like telling them," said Jack. "I want to sit here and
rest. Is Sunger all right?"

"Yes," Mrs. Blake reported. "I'll go out and tell the folks something of
what happened. Later on they can hear the whole story. But shan't I notify
the sheriff or some one, and have them get after this Ryan? What became of
him?"

"The last I saw of him was when he was sitting in the restaurant," Jack
answered. "He said good-bye in the friendliest fashion. And to think of the
trick he played on me! Said he'd see me again, the scoundrel!"

"And did he see you again?" asked Mrs. Blake.

"No," Jack answered. But he did not know how Ryan had pursued him, and then
disappeared.

"He must have had it all figured out," the lad went on. "He planned to come
up to me after I had fallen unconscious. Then he'd take the mail. Are you
sure it's safe?" he asked again.

"Yes," replied Jennie. "I'll bring it in here and let you see it if
necessary."

"No, I'll go out to it," replied Jack. "I'm feeling almost myself again."

"Better take a little more rest," suggested Mrs. Blake.

She had gone outside to explain matters to the waiting and anxious crowd,
which, having had its curiosity satisfied, in a measure, now dispersed.
Some of the younger lads went over to the stable where Sunger was resting.
They wanted to look at, and marvel over, the plucky pony that had done so
much to safeguard Jack and the mail.

Jack got to his feet. He had, however, overestimated his strength, for he
tottered and would have fallen had not Jennie put out her hands to steady
him.

"Look out!" she cautioned him.

"Humph! I'm a regular girl!" complained Jack, somewhat ashamed of his
weakness.

"Take care!" Jennie playfully retorted. "Girls are a whole lot better than
boys, in many ways."

"Yes, I know," confessed Jack. "If it were not for you and your mother I
don't know what I'd do. But I guess I can walk now. Queer how that stuff,
whatever it was, knocked me out."

"Here, drink this," suggested Mrs. Blake, and she held out a cup of coffee
she had brewed.

"Coffee!" Jack exclaimed, with a grim smile. "Are you sure it's all right?"

"No drug in that," Jennie's mother assured him. "It will make you feel
better. Then I'll get supper. You can eat, can't you?"

"Yes, my appetite doesn't seem to have left me in spite of what I went
through. I didn't take much in that restaurant. I was too anxious to get
away with the mail."

Jack drank the coffee, and it made him feel better. Then he said:

"Now for the mail. I want to see it opened, Jennie, so I'll know just what
it was I brought through."

"But you're not going on through to Rainbow Ridge to-night, are you?" she
asked anxiously.

"I guess not," was his answer. "Can't tell though, until I see what's in
the mail. I may have to."

"Well, we'll just not let you!" exclaimed Mrs. Blake with vigor. "If there
is anything that has to go through I'll get Tim, or some one else, to ride
the trail. We'll even send two men if necessary."

"Oh, I can't give up that way!" Jack protested.

"Well, maybe there isn't anything to carry," suggested Jennie. "I'll open
the mail and we'll look."

She turned the key in the lock of the first sack, and spilled the contents
out on the sorting table. Almost the first thing she and Jack saw was a
flat package, sealed with red wax. Jack quickly turned it over.

"It's for Mr. Argent!" he exclaimed. "I wonder if these can be the
important letters and plans he is expecting? They must be, and that's why
Ryan tried to get them!"

Jennie said nothing, but looked at Jack with troubled eyes.




CHAPTER XXII


THE MASKED MAN

For a few seconds the two young people remained looking alternately at one
another, and then at the packet which they guessed contained the
long-expected and important papers. The red wax, with which the package was
sealed, gleamed in the lamp-light, for one had been set aglow. It was dark
early on this night, as clouds overcast the sky.

"Yes, these must be the papers Mr. Argent is expecting," Jack said,
musingly. "I wonder what I'd better do about them?"

"What is there to do?" asked Mrs. Blake.

"Well, I think I ought to take them to him. I feel all right now. The
effects of that drug has passed off, and--"

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Jennie's mother; "you shall do nothing of the sort.
No trip to Rainbow Ridge to-night!"

"But he may want them!" insisted Jack. "And I promised to bring them
through for him. I think I must go."

"Please don't," pleaded Jennie. "We can lock the letters in the safe here,
and you can take them the first thing in the morning. You know you were
told not to make a night trip unless it was absolutely necessary, and it
isn't. There isn't anything here that must go through before morning," and
she rapidly sorted over the mail and express matter to prove what she said.

"And didn't Mr. Argent tell you not to take the risk of a night trip just
for these letters?" asked Mrs. Blake.

"Yes, he did, but--"

"Then don't go. In fact it would not be fair to him to risk taking them
after dark, when you know his enemies are after them. You have had a narrow
escape this afternoon, you are weak, and--"

"Oh, I'm all right now!" insisted Jack. "I feel fine."

He certainly looked it. His health had enabled him to make a quick recovery
from the effects of the drug, the life he lived in the open air doing much
to help his system throw off the effects of the narcotic. Jack looked able
to make a night ride.

"You may feel fine," said Mrs. Blake, determined to carry her point, "but
there is no telling when there might be a reaction, and a return of that
dizzy feeling. If you fell off your pony in the dark, at some lonesome
point of the mountain trail, you might not only suffer yourself, but it
would give Mr. Argent's enemies the very chance for which they are
scheming."

"Well, that's so," Jack admitted. "I didn't think of that."

"Then you won't go?" asked Jennie.

"No, I think perhaps I'd better not But is there a good place here to keep
the package?"

"We have a safe," replied Mrs. Blake. "It isn't a very big one, and I
suppose a real burglar wouldn't have much trouble in opening it. But there
aren't any burglars around here--there may be desperate men, but they're
not burglars. They can't work the combination. Besides, we'll be on the
lookout and watch, and you'll stay here all night, Jack, of course."

"Oh yes, thank you, Aunt Matilda. I'll stay as long as I'm not going back
to Rainbow Ridge. And if any attempt is made to rob the safe, well,
there'll be some trouble," and Jack took out his weapon to make sure that
it was fully loaded.

"Oh!" Jennie exclaimed, I wish you wouldn't do that."

"Do what?"

"Flourish that revolver so recklessly. It makes me nervous."

"I'm not reckless," said Jack. "And I've got to be sure it will go off if I
need it."

"I hope you won't need it," said the girl in a low voice.

The matter of Jack's staying having been decided, he helped Jennie sort the
mail and express matter, so there would be no delay in the morning. For the
pony express rider had determined to make an early start.

"I want to get those letters in the hands of Mr. Argent just as soon as I
can," he said. "Then the worry will be off my mind."

"And it is a worry," Jennie admitted. "Any one might think that to have a
mail route over these mountains wasn't very important, but things seem to
have crowded in on you lately."

"You haven't had it altogether easy yourself," said Jack, as he thought of
the bogus inspector. "Ever since I took dad's place there has been
something to worry you."

"Well, it isn't your fault, Jack," she said. "It just seems to be a
combination of circumstances, all more or less connected with Mr. Argent's
mine. But perhaps this is the end and from now on everything will go along
all right. I hope so!"

"So do I!" Jack declared. "Now I think I'll go over and have a look at the
pony. I may have a bit of hard riding to do to-morrow, and I want him to be
in good shape."

"Do you think they'll try again to-morrow to this package away from you?"
asked Jennie, looking around the room apprehensively, as though some one
might be lurking in the shadows.

"There's no telling," Jack responded.

He was glad to get out in the air again for a little while. There was a
fresh breeze blowing from the west, cold and refreshing from the distant
mountains, and the air cleared away from Jack's head the last lingering
feeling caused by the drug.

"Well, Sunger, old boy, they didn't get us that time, did they?" he asked
as he went into the stall and petted his faithful animal. "They didn't get
us though they tried mighty hard. We gave them a run for their money all
right, and we'll do it again if they make another try. How are you,
anyhow?"

He talked to the pony as though the plucky little fellow were human. And
perhaps Sunger understood more than Jack gave him credit for doing.
Certainly he had proved his intelligence that day.

Having seen that his mount, on which so much depended, was well bedded down
and had enough food and water, Jack went back to the Blake home.

"And now for a pleasant evening," suggested Jennie. "We'll have a game of
checkers, Jack. I think I can beat you this time, though you didn't give me
half a chance the last time."

"I'll concede you two men," he said, smiling.

"No, indeed!" she exclaimed, half indignantly. "If I can't beat you evenly
I don't want to win at all. Just because I'm a girl you'll handicap
yourself!"

"Oh well have it your own way," he agreed, smiling at her energetic words.

"Well, isn't this better than riding on the lonesome mountain trail,
thinking every minute you're going to be held up?" asked Jennie, when one
game had been finished, Jack winning as usual.

"It certainly is!" he agreed, as he looked around the pleasant room. "But
then, you know, business before pleasure."

"Not when it isn't absolutely necessary," remarked Mrs. Blake.

The living rooms of Jennie and her mother were upstairs, over the post
office and the express department. There was a spare room that Jack used
when he remained over night with his relatives.

"But I think I'll not sleep there to-night," he said, when preparations
were being made for retiring.

"Why not?" asked Jennie.

"I want to be down here, near the safe," Jack replied, nodding toward the
steel box in which the Argent letters and some registered mail had been
placed for security until morning. "I suppose nothing will happen," he went
on, "but I shall feel better if I am down here."

"But there is no place to sleep--no bed," objected Jennie.

"A blanket and the soft side of a board will do for me," Jack answered,
with a laugh. "I've camped out and slept on the ground often enough not to
mind one night of discomfort. Don't worry, I'll be comfortable enough
here."

"We can bring down the old lounge if you insist on sleeping here," Mrs.
Blake said.

"Well, I should like to, if you don't mind," Jack answered. And so it was
arranged. Jennie and her mother went up stairs, and Jack, without
undressing, stretched out on the couch, pulling the blankets over him, for
the night was cool with the approach of fall.

Jack's improvised bedroom was in a part of the post office, and in the room
adjoining stood the safe, containing the valuable letters. By peering out
of a nearby door Jack could have a glimpse of the strong box.

"Maybe I'll have my trouble for my pains," Jack reasoned, "but I'll worry
less this way. I wonder if they'll really make any attempt to get in here?"

He hardly knew what to think. When he recalled the desperate chance Ryan
had taken to get possession of what he must have known was in the mail
sack, Jack was sure the attempt would not easily be given up. But as the
plotters had so far been successfully evaded and their tricks set at
naught, it might be that they would give up now.

"It's about six of one and half a dozen of the other," Jack mused, "and I
think the odds are in my favor."

He did not feel sleepy. Perhaps the after-effects of the drug were such as
to produce an abnormally active state of the brain, and the brain must be
quiet to have sleep come. For a time Jack lay quietly on his couch. Then he
had an attack of the fidgets, and he tossed restlessly to and fro.

Up stairs all was quiet, and he hoped his aunt and cousin were sleeping in
comfort. Now and then Jack assured himself that his revolver was ready to
his hand. As the hours were ticked off on the office clock, Jack became
more and more nervous.

"Come, this won't do!" he told himself. "I won't be fit for much to-morrow
if I don't get some sleep, and I may have a hard day of it. Guess I'll get
up and have a drink of water. I've heard that's a good thing to do when one
can't sleep."

He tried to move about cautiously, so as not to disturb Jennie and her
mother. But as often happens when one moves about in the dark, objects are
struck that one hardly knew were in the room. The things all seem to mass
themselves under foot.

Jack banged into a table, and knocked over a chair.

"Oh!" screamed Jennie from the room above. "Mother! Jack! They've come!"

"It isn't anything--I just got up to get a drink," quickly explained Jack,
wishing he had kept still. "Sorry to have disturbed you."

"I haven't been asleep," Jennie confessed, calling down the stairway.
"Isn't it nearly morning?"

"A little after twelve," Jack reported, striking a match and looking at his
watch.

Going back to his couch he soon found himself sinking off into a
comfortable doze. He really needed natural sleep after his experience that
day, and a little later he found it stealing over him. He turned on his
side, and, before he knew it, was oblivious to his surroundings.

How long he slept Jack did not know, but he awoke with a start, and he was
at once aware that his awakening had been caused by some sudden noise. For
a moment he was so confused that he could not think clearly, or recall
where he was.

He passed his hand across his head, and this slight action seemed to make
his brain work. Then he sat up. He was at once aware that something unusual
was going on.

There was a dim light shining in through the room where the safe was. And
as Jack had left none burning, and as there were no street lights in Golden
Crossing, the express rider at once realized that some one had brought a
light into the room since he had fallen asleep.

Jack was about to call out, thinking perhaps his aunt or cousin had come
down stairs, but he restrained himself.

"I'll just go and see who it is," he thought. A wild idea came to him. He
reached under his pillow and brought out his revolver.

"If it's any of the outlaws I'll be ready," he murmured.

Moving with the silence of a cat, Jack, who had taken off his shoes,
tiptoed to the door between the two rooms. As he advanced he could hear a
succession of small noises. One was a sort of purring sound. Then came the
tinkle of metal on metal--a faint sound that would not have been audible
but for the deep silence over the place. Then Jack saw a flicker of the
light, as though some one or some object had come near enough to it to
produce a shadow.

Then, as Jack looked, he saw the outlines of a man's head, and the man
seemed bent over, of stooping. Again came the tinkle of metal on metal.

All at once the truth flashed into Jack's mind.

"They're going to blow open the safe" was his thought. "It's the outlaws!
I've caught 'em! They've drilled the safe and are going to blow it open!"

He managed, by going slowly, and trying each board with his foot advanced,
to guard against a creak, finally to reach the door that opened into the
room where the safe stood.

And there, kneeling on the floor in front of the strong box, was a masked
man. He was in front of the safe, and a partly-opened dark lantern gave
light enough for Jack to see what was going on.

The safe was not open, but, as Jack looked, and as he was about to give the
command: "Hands up!" he saw the masked man suddenly spring back and slide,
on rubber-soled shoes, to a far corner.

There was a tiny curl of smoke near the door of the safe. Jack realized,
too late, what it was--the fuse attached to a charge of nitroglycerine. The
safe was about to be blown open.

And then, ere Jack could spring forward and tear loose the fuse, the
explosion came.

It was not loud, but the force of if blew Jack backward, knocking him down.
His head hit on something and, for the moment, he lost consciousness.




CHAPTER XXIII


THE ESCAPE

Jack did not remain senseless long. When he recovered he became aware of a
confused shouting, and an acrid smell of smoke filled his nostrils.

"Jack! Jack!" he heard Jennie and her mother shouting. "Jack, are you
hurt?"

By a great effort, overcoming the faintness that seemed to be returning,
Jack scrambled to his feet. It was dead black in the place now.

"I'm all right!" Jack cried, "but something has happened. They've been here
all right Stay up there until I call you."

He struck a match, for he had a box in readiness in his pocket.

A glance into the room where the safe stood showed what havoc had been
wrought by the explosion. It was not much, for only a small charge had been
used. But the door of the safe was blown off, and some damage was done to
the fixtures and furniture of the place.

The interior of the strong box--for it was that and nothing more, being an
old-fashioned safe--was plainly exposed to view. Jack was in front of it on
the jump. Lighting another match he peered within.

"They're gone!" he cried aloud. "He's got the Argent letters! And me
sleeping right beside them! This is fierce!"

With trembling fingers, and a deep sense of humiliation in his heart, Jack
lighted a lamp. But even with this greater light there was no trace of the
missing packet. Only that seemed to have been taken, as far as Jack could
make out.

But now Jennie and her mother, frightened and alarmed, were begging to know
what had happened. There was no trace of the masked man. He had slipped out
while Jack lay unconscious, our hero thought. Though, indeed, he felt
little like a hero just then.

"Oh, Jack, what is it? Can't we come down? Are you hurt?" Jennie begged.

"No, I'm not hurt. Come down if you like. They blew open the safe!"

"Oh!" exclaimed Mrs. Blake, and there was fear and alarm in her voice.
Certainly any one might fear those unscrupulous outlaws, who seemed to halt
at nothing to gain their ends.

For a moment Jack gazed dumbly at the ruin wrought. His eyes sought for
some trace of the package he had done so much to bring through with safety,
but which, after all, had been taken while he slept. Certainly it was an
unfortunate and distressing affair.

"Oh, isn't it awful!" gasped Jennie, as she and her mother picked their way
through the confusion of furniture in the room, and looked at the looted
safe. "It's just terrible!"

"Jack, sound an alarm at once!" cried Mrs. Blake, recognizing the need for
quick action, "Fire your revolver out of the window--yell--do something!"

"Of course! And here I stand like a booby!" Jack cried. "We must get a
posse after that fellow!"

An open window showed how the robber had entered and gone. Jack thrust his
weapon outside and fired the five shots in quick succession. The explosion
by which the safe was shattered did not appear to have roused any of the
townspeople. Probably the report was too muffled to carry far.

But Jack's shots, ringing out in the open, were heard, and soon windows
began to go up. Heads were thrust out, and there came many demands to know
what was going on.

"Post office safe blown and robbed!" cried Jack. "It was done by one man,
though there may have been more. We must get after them!"

"That's what we must!" cried Tim Mullane, one of the first on the scene.

Jack slipped on his shoes, and, with a lantern, hurried across to where
Sunger was stabled. As he approached the place the open door made his heart
sink.

"If he has taken Sunger--" he faltered.

That was what the masked robber had done. The pony's stall was vacant. Jack
felt a fierce longing to do something desperate. This was the last straw.

"Sunger gone! Sunger gone!" Jack repeated, blankly.

He did not want to believe it, but there was nothing else to do. The masked
robber had made his escape on Jack's speedy mount.

By this time all those living in the vicinity of the post office were
aroused. They came, hastily dressed, mostly men and boys, to crowd into the
small place and look at the wrecked safe.

"That job was done by professionals all right," said the town marshal.
"That's no amateur work. He just put some of the nitroglycerine in a crack
between the door and the casing, or maybe in a hole he bored, and touched
it off with a fuse. Yes, it was a neat job."

"Neat!" Jock exclaimed, rather indignantly. "When he took that valuable
package? Neat!"

"Oh well, you know what I mean," the marshal said. "Now, boys, we've got to
get these fellows, and get after them hard!"

"I only saw one," Jack put in.

"Well, he probably had confederates. Now, boys, get your horses and we'll
hit the trail. There's only two he could take, and we'll cover 'em both.
You come along, too, Jack, that is if you feel able. I see you got a cut on
your head."

Jack put up his hand. It came away bloody, and Jennie screamed.

"It's only a little cut where I fell, when the force of the explosion
knocked me down," Jack said. Up to then, so great had been the excitement,
he had not been aware of the slight injury.

"Well get on your pony then, and come along," the marshal urged him. "We'll
want you to identify the fellow if we catch him. That is if you can."

"I'm not sure I could," Jack said. "I only saw his back, and he wore a
mask."

"Well, come along anyhow. Hop on your pony and--"

"I can't!" Jack exclaimed. "The fellow took Sunger!"

"He did!" the marshal cried. "Well, now we certainly must get him! If he's
a horse thief, as well as a safe-blower we sure will get him! Scatter,
boys! Be lively! Jack, I'll lend you a horse. Come on now. Jim Hickey, you
lead one bunch over the Tuckerton trail, and I'll head another on the road
to Rainbow Ridge. But most likely the fellow will take to the mountains and
hide out for a spell."

"He won't be very likely to go to Rainbow Ridge," said Jack.

"Why not?"

"Because he's got a valuable package of letters and mining documents
addressed to Mr. Argent of that place. He wouldn't go there."

"I don't know," returned the marshal. "He wouldn't stay there, but he might
go through that way."

It did not take long to organize two posses, and Jack went with the one led
by the marshal. The young express rider bestrode a borrowed steed, and
though it was good enough, as horses go, it was not at all like his beloved
Sunger.

"I wonder if I'll ever get him back," mused the lad, as he trotted along
beside the others.

"A measly horse thief!" muttered the marshal. "We'll get him if it takes a
year."

In the West horse-stealing is a crime almost on a par with killing; for out
there a man's life often depends on his horse, and if a thief takes the
horse away he may also be responsible for the death of the man. That is why
horse-stealing is visited with such swift and sure vengeance when the
culprit is caught.

Since there was a moon that night, there was fairly good light to see to
follow the mountain trails. The robber had not much of a start, but he was
riding Jack's fleet pony, and that, in itself, meant a great deal, for
there were few horses in that part of the country who could distance him.

Over the trails they rode, and, as they went, the hope of soon catching the
robber grew less and less.

"I'm afraid he's escaped us all right," the marshal said, ruefully. "But
we'll get him yet. I'll never let a horse thief get the best of me!"

"You seem to forget that he also took those valuable letters," Jack
remarked.

"No, I'm not forgetting it," the marshal said, "but to my way of thinking
that ain't half so bad a crime as taking your horse. And I'd say the same
thing if he took any other horse, or one of mine. I just naturally hate a
horse thief!"

"That's right!" chimed in several of the men in the posse.

There were no places, or, rather, only one or two places, along the
mountain trail, where inquiries could be made as to whether or not the
robber--or some night-rider--had passed. But at such lonely cabins as Jack
and his friends came to they roused the inmates and put their questions.

"Seems to me I did hear a hoss gallopin' about an hour back," said one old
man. "I thought maybe it was the pony express goin' through, though, so I
didn't pay no attention."

"I wish it had been the pony express," murmured Jack regretfully. "If I had
taken the letters on the night ride I might have gotten safely through with
them."

"I don't hardly believe it," the marshal told him. "I guess those outlaws
were watching the trail. They were bound to get them, and when they found
you weren't going through with 'em they came in and blowed the safe."

"I suppose so," murmured Jack.




CHAPTER XXIV


JACK'S IDEA

Morning came. At least the dawn was heralded in the east, where the dark
clouds turned to pink, growing brighter and brighter, until the sun himself
peeped above the horizon.

The posse with which Jack was riding had come almost all the way to Rainbow
Ridge, and so far had not had a sight of the robber or any of his
confederates, if he had any, which was scarcely to be doubted.

"Well, boys, we may as well go back, I guess," the marshal said. "We'll
have to organize a regular hunt, and scatter through the mountains. But
we'll have to go back and get some grub. I'm getting hungry, and a man
can't hunt a horse thief on an empty stomach."

"That's right!" several of the men agreed.

"Why not keep on?" some one asked. "We can get to Rainbow Ridge quicker
than we can to Golden Crossing."

"That's true," added Jack. "I'd ask you all to our cabin, but there's
nothing there to eat, since dad is being taken care of by Mrs. Watson."

"Oh, we can get grub easily enough," the sheriff said. "I guess it will be
as well to go on to Rainbow Ridge. We want to spread the news there anyhow,
and get some men out after the robbers from this end. And I suppose you'll
have to report the robbery, won't you?" he asked Jack.

"Yes," replied the pony express rider, and his voice was sad. "I'll have to
admit that they got the best of me."

"Oh, shucks! It wasn't your fault at all!" declared the marshal. "Those
fellows were bound to get the letters, and if they didn't one way they
would another. You couldn't help it."

"But I was asleep right alongside the safe."

"Yes, but maybe they chloroformed you. Such things have been done."

"No, that wasn't done," declared Jack with conviction.

"Well, you'd gone through enough, in that drugging business, to make
anybody tired enough to sleep hard," one man said. "They can't blame you."

"No indeed!" agreed another.

But Jack blamed himself. He felt that he had failed in his trust. He did
not know what to do. His brain seemed incapable of thinking. If he could
only catch the robber and get back the letters!

As he went along with the others over the mountain trail in the early
morning, he looked eagerly about, as though he might see some sign of the
much-wanted rascal. But the trail was deserted, save for the posse.

They rode into Rainbow Ridge, and that place was soon buzzing with the
startling news. As soon as possible a number of men were started out
through the mountains, to cover even the bridle paths and trails seldom
used. All strangers who could not give a good account of themselves were to
be brought into the town.

Mr. Argent was told of the stealing of the valuable letters. He looked
grave when Jack explained what had taken place.

"Of course it isn't your fault, Jack," the miner said, "and I'm not in the
least blaming you."

"I wanted to come through with them last night, but--"

"It probably wouldn't have done any good, and you might have been attacked
and hurt. I'm glad that didn't happen. Of course losing the papers is going
to make it very bad for my friends and myself in making good our claim to
the mine. But it can't be helped. You did the best you could. No one could
have done more. That was a plucky thing you did--tying yourself on the
pony's back when you felt you were going to become unconscious."

"But it didn't result in any good in the end," said Jack bitterly. "And now
Sunger is gone, too."

"That's too bad. But still we may catch this fellow. So my package was the
only one he took?"

"Well, I didn't stay until all the mail was checked up," answered Jack,
"but I'm sure that was missing from the opened safe. I half hoped that this
might be another dummy package," said Jack, "and that your other letters
might be in the one addressed to the postmaster here."

"No such luck!" exclaimed the miner. "The package addressed to me contained
the real and important letters and mine plans that I've been expecting so
long. There was some stuff for me in that other package you mention, but it
isn't important.

"I wish now," he went on, ruefully, "that I had had a dummy package come
through. But I worked that plan once, and I didn't think it would have an
effect a second time. Well, it's all in the game, and if I lose this inning
I may make it up later. But whatever happens, Jack, don't in the least feel
that I blame you."

"Well, it's awfully good of you to say so," replied the pony rider, "but I
can't help feeling bad about it."

"Oh, I feel bad myself," the miner said. "But there's no use crying over
spilled molasses."

"I think you mean milk," Jack corrected, with a smile.

"Well, perhaps I do. Anyhow the thing to do now is to see if we can't round
up these fellows. For there were more than one of them, though you only saw
one at the safe. I have an idea who some of them are, too."

As soon as it was seen that a hasty and quick search was not going to
result in the capture of the robber and his confederates, a well-planned
organized hunt was instituted, to take in as much as possible of the
surrounding mountain country. Jack could not take part in this, as he had
to ride the express route.

At first he feared lest he might be discharged for having been robbed, but,
as a matter of fact, technically he was not in the least to blame. The
matter taken was not in his charge, but was in the safe in a post office,
and his responsibility ended with the delivery of the mail. Nor was Jennie
Blake blamed. The post office authorities did not in the least censure her
or her mother. In fact they paid them the compliment, and Jack, too, of
saying that extraordinary precautions had been taken, but that the robbery
had occurred in spite of them.

Another point was that no express stuff was taken, but only United States'
mail. And so the express people had no complaint against Jack, or any one
else, as they had lost nothing. Such being the case, there was no good
reason for displacing Jack, especially as the robbery had not occurred on
his route. So those who hoped to get his position were disappointed.

"You can keep right on riding for us, Jack, my boy," said Mr. Perkfeld.
"We're glad to have you. It isn't often we get as plucky a lad as you. And
when your father gets well, and wants his place back, he can have it, and
I'll find an opening for you on another route, if you like."

"I certainly would like!" Jack exclaimed, warmly.

In addition to the posse organized in Golden Crossing and Rainbow Ridge the
post office authorities also sent out inspectors and detectives to try and
round up the robbers. This was done the day after it occurred, so that
within forty-eight hours the mountain trails were being well patrolled by
men eager to apprehend the offenders. And in the mountains, off the trails,
were others on the same errand. Jack wished he could be with them, but he
had to keep to the mail and express route.

As far as Mr. Argent could learn, no use had yet been made of the stolen
documents.

"And that is a good sign," he said to Jack. "I've been in touch with
matters, and I and my friends would know as soon as some use was made of
them. The people who could best use those documents would have an
injunction out against us in a jiffy, and be in possession of the mine as
soon as they laid their hands on the papers. But they haven't got them yet,
that's sure."

"What does that mean?" asked Jack.

"Just this. Those who would gain the greatest advantage from the possession
of our papers, which would give them control of the mine, didn't do the
actual stealing themselves. They hired these outlaws to do it, and from the
fact that no action has been taken makes me sure that the robber who blew
open the safe and took the letters, has not had a chance to deliver them."

"You mean he has them in his possession yet?"

"That's about it, Jack. He is probably hiding out somewhere in the
mountains, waiting for a chance to deliver them. He dare not mail them, and
he can't get in touch with the rascals who hired him or worked with him.
And if any of our men see him first, why we'll save the day yet."

"Good!" cried Jack. "I wish it would be my luck to nab him!"

"Yes. And I suppose you want your pony back?"

"Do I?" cried Jack, and there was no mistaking his longing.

He had provided himself with another horse to ride the mountain trail, and,
though it was good, still it was not Sunger.

Mrs. Blake and Jennie were very nervous after the safe robbery, and Mrs.
Blake wanted her daughter to give up the post office. But the plucky girl
would not.

"They won't bother us again," she said. "It's like lightning. It won't
happen the second time In the same place. I'm not afraid, though I am a
little shaken."

The damage done by the explosion was soon repaired, and a new and more
up-to-date safe provided by the post office department.

It was a week after this momentous occurrence that one afternoon, as Jack
was riding along the trail from Golden Crossing to Rainbow Ridge, he
stopped to water his horse at the lonely cabin where the old man, on the
night of the chase, had told of hearing some one riding past, he thinking
it was the pony express.

"Well, Jack," asked the old man, as the lad paused for a moment's chat,
"they didn't catch that there safe burglar, did they?"

"No, haven't seen a trace of him, worse luck! Anybody been along to-day?"

"Why, yes, there was a feller here not long ago. He stopped for a drink,
and asked for a bite to eat. He looked as if he was in hard luck."

"What sort of a fellow was he?"

"Oh well, I didn't take particular notice. He was afoot."

"Afoot?" cried Jack. "That's queer."

"I thought so myself," agreed the old man. And it was queer to see a man
traveling afoot in a country where riding and driving was universal. "I
asked him where his horse was, and he said down the road a piece!"

"That was also queer," Jack said. "I wonder why he didn't ride right up
here? No excuse for walking when one has a horse."

"That's what I thought," the old man went on. "But I didn't want to ask too
many questions. He didn't seem relishin' answerin' 'em."

"Which way was he going?" asked the pony express lad.

"Towards Rainbow Ridge. It wa'n't more'n ten minutes ago."

As Jack rode off a sudden thought came to him.

"I wonder if this could be a clew to the robber?" he asked himself. "Queer
thing about his not riding his horse up to Ford's cabin. Why should he do
that unless he was afraid the horse would be recognized. Why should
he--Great Scott!" suddenly exclaimed Jack aloud. "I believe I know why. He
had Sunger, and didn't dare let Ford see him! That's it! I believe I'm on
the track of the man who has my pony and the Argent letters!"




CHAPTER XXV


JACK'S TRICK--CONCLUSION

Jack called to his horse, which really was a speedy mount.

"Come on, old boy!" he cried. "You may not be as good as Sunger, but he's
had a hard time lately, being kept out among the mountains, and I don't
believe he's up to the mark. We may catch him if that fellow stays to the
road, though ordinarily my pony would run away from you, Dobbin."

Jack didn't care much what he called this horse. But he really liked the
animal, as he did all horseflesh, and the beast responded readily to him.

On they swept down the mountain trail. Jack's eyes watched eagerly as he
made turn after turn at top speed; but for some time he saw no signs of any
rider ahead of him.

"There's no way of getting off on a side trail for the next half mile,"
reflected Jack, as he rode on. "If I can come up to him in that distance
I'll have him."

He felt to see if his revolver was in readiness. He did not know just what
he would do, but it was a desperate situation, or it would be if he should
overtake the fellow.

And luck was with Jack--luck and good judgment. As he made the last turn in
that part of the trail from which there was no escape by a side road, he
saw, just ahead of him, a rider on a horse which Jack knew in a moment.

"That's Sunger!" he cried. "I've found him!"

Of course Jack could not be sure that the man on his pony was the same one
who had robbed the safe. But Jack knew his own steed, and when, out West, a
man is found riding a stolen horse, it is prime evidence against him. He
has to prove his case, and is subject to arrest on sight. Of course he may
have innocently acquired the stolen animal; but he has to prove this to be
the case.

"That's my pony, and I'm going to have him back!" thought Jack. "And I'm
going to get that man, too! Come on, boy!"

For one of the few times in his life Jack used the whip. But he was humane.
His horse responded with a burst of speed. But now the man ahead, hearing
galloping hoofs behind him, urged on Sunger. And Sunger still could run.
Though Jack saw, with regret, that his pony had suffered, still the
wonderful speed of the animal had abated but little.

"He's going to get away from me!" cried the lad, as he saw how Sunger was
running. "And that's the man, else why should he try to escape?"

Then Jack began to think quickly. He had trained Sunger to halt instantly
when he called "Whoa!" to him, in a certain tone. If the animal were going
at top speed, and Jack yelled that word, Sunger would brace up with his
fore feet, slide with his hind ones, and bring up standing, like a train of
cars when the engineer throws on the emergency air brakes.

Of course Jack was never in the saddle when he worked this trick with
Sunger. Had he been he might have been hurt. But he had given his pony this
training so that in going down dangerous slopes Sunger would know how to
bring himself suddenly to a halt.

"I wonder if I can make him hear," thought Jack. "If I can, and if he'll
stop, there'll be something doing in a minute."

Jack saw that he could not hope to overtake the man ahead of him by an
ordinary chase. The horse the pony rider bestrode was not fast enough. And
a short distance ahead was a place on the trail where the suspect could
escape by a side path.

"Here goes!" murmured Jack.

In his loudest voice he cried out:

"Whoa, Sunger!"

Something happened at once. The pony, which had been running his best in
order not to let the horse behind pass him, pulled up so short that the man
was flung with great force from the saddle, and over Sunger's head. Over he
went, vainly trying to save himself, and the next moment he landed heavily
on the side of the trail and did not move.

"Well, I guess that ends your riding for a time," thought Jack, grimly.
Then he rode forward while Sunger, with a whinny of delight, turned back to
meet his master.

"Oh, Sunger! Sunger, old boy! You did it!" cried Jack. Then his heart smote
him as he saw the motionless figure beside the trail.

Pausing only a moment to caress his recovered pony, Jack hastened to the
side of the man who had been thrown off by Sunger's sudden stopping. The
fellow was a stranger to Jack, who could not tell whether or not he was the
post office robber. The man was unconscious, and, with little compunction,
Jack rapidly searched through his pockets.

In an inner one he came upon a package. With beating heart Jack pulled out
the bundle. He knew it in a moment. It was the packet of letters addressed
to Mr. Argent. A look at the seals convinced the lad that they had not been
broken.

"Talk about luck!" he cried, "I'm certainly in it to-day! I've got Sunger,
got the papers back, and caught the robber, too. At least I think he must
be the safe-cracker, though I can't be sure. I've got him right! Sunger,
old boy, we worked the trick to perfection!"

Jack thrust the strangely-recovered package into his pocket, and then gave
more attention to the man. He lay senseless, and from the manner in which
one leg was doubled up under him Jack felt sure it was broken.

"But it couldn't be helped," he mused. "I had to stop you, and you brought
it on yourself. I'll go and get help for you, though."

Jack worked quickly. His first care was for his pony, who was delightedly
rubbing his velvet nose against his master. Sunger did not appear to have
suffered so much as Jack had feared.

"I guess you can ride trail yet," Jack mused. "I'll use you in place of
Dobbin."

He transferred the mail sacks to his own pony, and then rode back to the
cabin, taking the other horse with him.

"For you might come to, and manage to ride off," Jack said looking at the
unconscious man. But the fellow did not. He was still senseless when the
help sent by Jack reached him.

As for our hero, he rode post-haste into Rainbow Ridge, where, after
stopping but a moment to tell his father the good news, he hastened to
deliver the recovered packet to Mr. Argent and tell his news.

"Say, you don't mean to say you have it Jack!" cried the miner. "Why,
that's great! And it's all here, too--every paper!" he added as he broke
the seals and made a quick examination. "Now everything will be all right,
and we'll start to work the mine. That fellow you caught didn't have time
to deliver the goods and didn't dare go where he could do so. It was a
great trick! Great!"

Jack was pretty well pleased with himself.

The rest of the story is soon told. The man whom Jack had caught by the
trick of making the pony stop suddenly was not mortally hurt, though a
broken leg, and other injuries laid him up for some time. He confessed he
was the safe-robber, and a member of the outlaw gang that had been engaged
by the enemies of Mr. Argent to get possession of the papers.

And, as the miner had surmised, the trails had been so quickly and closely
watched and guarded, that he had had no chance to communicate with those
who engaged him, to give them the papers he stole from the safe. He and
Ryan, as well as others, had worked together to waylay Jack, or, in any
manner they could, get possession of the documents.

This much was learned from the man's confession, and, though he did not
disclose the whereabouts of his confederates, they were captured a little
later, and sent to prison for long terms. Jack's testimony went far in
this, for he identified Ryan, as well as the bogus post office inspector,
who was also one of the men who held him up.

Ryan was among the first arrested, and admitted that he had planned for
some time to drug Jack, and had seen his opportunity the day the pony went
lame.

Not only was Mr. Argent's mine secured to him, and the pony express route
rendered safe by the capture of the outlaw band, but several other crimes
in the vicinity were cleared up. The gang was at the bottom of them.

"Well, I only wish I could be cleared of suspicion in that Harrington
matter," said Mr. Bailey one day, a month or so later, when he had so far
recovered that he was thinking of going back to the pony express route.

"Maybe you will be. The trials of those fellows aren't ended yet," Jack
said. "Maybe something will come out in them."

And that is just what happened. In the testimony, it was brought out that,
for some time, confederates of the outlaws, of whom Jake Tantrell was one,
had been trying to get for one of their number the position of pony express
rider. They thought if they did this they would have no trouble in robbing
the mail.

One of these unscrupulous men was responsible for the leakage of the
information contained in the Harrington letter. This was admitted, and Mr.
Bailey was cleared of all blame in the matter.

It was Tantrell, too, who loosened the planks in the bridge, just as Jack
suspected.

"Well, that makes me feel fine!" Mr. Bailey said, when the good news came
to him. "It's all your doings, Jack, catching that fellow!"

"No, it's Sunger's," Jack said, with a laugh. "If he hadn't learned the
trick of stopping suddenly the man might have gotten away, and the mine
might have been lost to Mr. Argent."

"But it wasn't lost," said the miner, "and as a little reward for your
pluck and services, Jack, I'm going to give you a small interest in one of
my mines, for I have two."

"Oh, I don't want any reward!"

"But you're going to need it some day. You can save the income for the time
when you'll want to get married; eh?" and he pinched Jennie's blushing
cheek.

Jennie didn't say anything. But she looked at Jack, and he would have
blushed as red as she, only he could not. He was too tanned.

In due time Mr. Bailey fully recovered, and was able to take up his former
work of riding pony express. Jack regretted giving it up, glad as he was to
have his father out again. But Mr. Perkfeld was as good as his word, and
Jack soon had another route to ride, and one where he could see Jennie
nearly as often as before.

Jennie still kept her place as postmistress at Golden Crossing, but there
was no more danger from the outlaws or the bogus inspector, as they had the
prospect of long terms in prison before them.

"And when they do come out you won't be working in the office here any
more," said Jack, with a smile.

"How do you know?" Jennie asked demurely.

"Oh, I just guess it," was the answer, and he looked at Jennie in a way
that meant a good deal.





End of Project Gutenberg's Jack of the Pony Express, by Frank V. Webster





Produced by Charles Franks, Robert Prince,
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.





[Illustration: 'WHAT A PRETTY LITTLE WATER LILY' CRIED LILEN
             From the painting by Marie Webb]

THE JUNIOR CLASSICS

SELECTED AND ARRANGED BY WILLIAM PATTEN MANAGING EDITOR OF THE
HARVARD CLASSICS

INTRODUCTION BY CHARLES W. ELIOT, LL. D. PRESIDENT EMERITUS OF
HARVARD UNIVERSITY

WITH A READING GUIDE BY WILLIAM ALLAN NEILSON, Ph.D. PROFESSOR OF
ENGLISH, HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT SMITH COLLEGE, NORTHAMPTON,
MASS., SINCE 1917





VOLUME EIGHT

Animal and Nature Stories



TABLE OF CONTENTS

Little Cyclone: The Story of a Grizzly Cub, W. T. Hornaday
Some True Stories of Tigers, Wolves, Foxes, and Bears,
   W. H. G. Kingston
Some Animal Friends in Africa, Bayard Taylor
My Fight with a Catamount, Allen French
In Canada with a Lynx, Roe L. Hendrick
Solomon's Grouch: The Story of a Bear, Franklin W. Calkins
A Droll Fox-Trap, C. A. Stephens
The Horse That Aroused the Town, Lillian M. Gask
What Ginger Told Black Beauty, Anna Sewell
Some True Stories of Horses and Donkeys, W. H. G. Kingston
"Old Mustard": A Tale of the Western Pioneers, E. W. Frentz
Carlo, the Soldiers' Dog, Rush C. Hawkins
A Brave Dog, Sir Samuel W. Baker
Uncle Dick's Rolf, Georgiana M. Craik
Scrap, Lucia Chamberlain
A Fire-Fighter's Dog, Arthur Quiller-Couch
Plato: The Story of a Cat, A. S. Downs
Peter: A Cat O' One Tail, Charles Morley
Jeff the Inquisitive, Rush C. Hawkins
The Impudent Guinea-Pig, Charles F. Lummis
Hard to Hit, Ernest Ingersoll
That Sly Old Woodchuck, William O. Stoddard
The Faithful Little Lizard, W. Hill James
Toby the Wise, Rush C. Hawkins
Blackamoor, Ruth Landseer
A Parrot That Had Been Trained to Fire a Cannon,
   Sir Samuel W. Baker
The Sandpiper's Trick, Celia Thaxter
How Did the Canary Do It?, Celia Thaxter
A Runaway Whale, Capt. O. G. Fosdick
Saved by a Seal, Theodore A. Cutting
Old Muskie the Rogue, Levi T. Pennington
Teaching Fish to Ring Bells, C. F. Holder
Marcus Aurelius, Octave Thanet
Anna and the Rattler, Mrs. Cornell
The Butterfly's Children, Mrs. Alfred Gatty
The Dragon-Fly and the Water-Lily, Carl Ewald
Powder-Post, C. A. Stephens
The Queen Bee, Carl Ewald
A Swarm of Wild Bees, Albert W. Tolman
The Intelligence of Ants, Sir John Lubbock
The Katy-Did's Party, Harriet B. Stowe
The Beech and the Oak, Carl Ewald
The Oak and the Snail, Mrs. Alfred Gatty
The Story of a Stone, David Starr Jordan
How the Stone-Age Children Played, Charles C. Abbott
The Mist, Carl Ewald
The Anemones, Carl Ewald
The Weeds, Carl Ewald
Some Voices from the Kitchen Garden,
   Mrs. Alfred Gatty
The Wind and the Flowers, Mrs. Alfred Gatty

PHIL'S ADVENTURES AMONG THE ANIMALS

At Home With the Beavers, Lillian M. Gask
Two Enemies of the Beavers, Lillian M. Gask
The Squirrel's Story, Lillian M. Gask
A Den in the Rocks, Lillian M. Gask
Ships of the Desert, Lillian M. Gask

SOME ANIMAL STORIES

The Tale of Peter Rabbit, Beatrix Potter
Lions and Tigers, Anonymous
Apes and Monkeys, Anonymous
The Hippopotamus and the Rhinoceros, Anonymous
The Giraffe, Anonymous
Parrots, Anonymous
Rab and His Friends, John Brown, M.D.
A Ride With a Mad Horse in a Freight-Car,
   W. H. H. Murray
A-Hunting of the Deer, Charles D. Warner


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"WHAT A PRETTY LITTLE WATER-LILY!" CRIED ELLEN

The Dragon-Fly and the Water-Lily
  (Frontispiece illustration in color from the painting by Marie Webb)

GINGER AND I WERE STANDING ALONE IN THE SHADE
   What Ginger Told Black Beauty
     (From the painting by Maude Scrivener)

THEY LEARNT FROM THEIR FATHER TO HUNT THE STAG IN HIS COVERT

The Beech and the Oak
  (From the drawing by John Hassell)

PEOPLE WHO WERE OUT FOR AN EVENING STROLL
  The Mist
     (From the painting by Edmund Dulac)




LITTLE CYCLONE: THE STORY OF A GRIZZLY CUB

By W. T. Hornaday


Little Cyclone is a grizzly cub from Alaska, who earned his name by
the vigor of his resistance to ill treatment. When his mother was
fired at, on a timbered hillside facing Chilkat River, he and his
brother ran away as fast as their stumpy little legs could carry
them. When they crept where they had last seen her, they thought
her asleep; and cuddling up close against her yet warm body they
slept peacefully until morning.

Before the early morning sun had reached their side of the
mountains, the two orphans were awakened by the rough grasp of
human hands. Valiantly they bit and scratched, and bawled aloud
with rage. One of them made a fight so fierce and terrible that his
nervous captor let him go, and that one is still on the Chilkoot.

Although the other cub fought just as desperately, his captor
seized him by the hind legs, dragged him backwards, occasionally
swung him around his head, and kept him generally engaged until
ropes were procured for binding him. When finally established, with
collar, chain and post, in the rear of the saloon in Porcupine
City, two-legged animals less intelligent than himself frequently
and violently prodded the little grizzly with a long pole "to see
him fight." Barely in time to save him from insanity, little
Cyclone was rescued by the friendly hands of the Zoological
Society's field agent, placed in a comfortable box, freed from all
annoyance, and shipped to New York.

He was at that time as droll and roguish-looking a grizzly cub as
ever stepped. In a grizzly-gray full moon of fluffy hair, two big
black eyes sparkled like jet beads, behind a pudgy little nose,
absurdly short for a bear. Excepting for his high shoulders, he was
little more than a big bale of gray fur set up on four posts of the
same material. But his claws were formidable, and he had the true
grizzly spirit.

The Bears' Nursery at the New York Zoological Park is a big yard
with a shade tree, a tree to climb, a swimming pool, three sleeping
dens, and a rock cliff. It never contains fewer than six cubs, and
sometimes eight.

Naturally, it is a good test of courage and temper to turn a new
bear into that roystering crowd. Usually a newcomer is badly scared
during his first day in the Nursery, and very timid during the
next. But grizzlies are different. They are born full of courage
and devoid of all sense of fear.

When little Cyclone's travelling box was opened, and he found
himself free in the Nursery, he stalked deliberately to the centre
of the stage, halted, and calmly looked about him. His air and
manner said as plainly as English: "I'm a grizzly from Alaska, and
I've come to stay. If any of you fellows think there is anything
coming to you from me, come and take it."

Little Czar, a very saucy but good-natured European brown bear cub,
walked up and aimed a sample blow at Cyclone's left ear. Quick as a
flash out shot Cyclone's right paw, as only a grizzly can strike,
and caught the would-be hazer on the side of the head. Amazed and
confounded, Czar fled in wild haste. Next in order, a black bear
cub, twice the size of Cyclone, made a pass at the newcomer, and he
too received so fierce a countercharge that he ignominiously
quitted the field and scrambled to the top of the cliff.

Cyclone conscientiously met every attack, real or feigned, that was
made upon him. In less than an hour it was understood by every bear
in the Nursery that that queer-looking gray fellow with the broad
head and short nose could strike quick and hard, and that he could
fight any other bear on three seconds' notice.

From that time on Cyclone's position has been assured. He is
treated with the respect that a good forearm inspires, but being
really a fine-spirited, dignified little grizzly, he attacks no
one, and never has had a fight.




SOME TRUE STORIES OF TIGERS, WOLVES, FOXES AND BEARS

By W. H. G. Kingston


On one of her voyages from China, the Pitt, East Indiaman, had on
board, among her passengers, a young tiger. He appeared to be as
harmless and playful as a kitten, and allowed the utmost
familiarity from every one. He was especially fond of creeping into
the sailors' hammocks; and while he lay stretched on the deck, he
would suffer two or three of them to place their heads on his back,
as upon a pillow. Now and then, however, he would at dinner-time
run off with pieces of their meat; and though sometimes severely
punished for the theft, he bore the chastisement he received with
the patience of a dog. His chief companion was a terrier, with whom
he would play all sorts of tricks--tumbling and rolling over the
animal in the most amusing manner, without hurting it. He would
also frequently run out on the bowsprit, and climb about the
rigging with the agility of a cat.

On his arrival in England, he was sent to the menagerie at the
Tower. While there, another terrier was introduced into his den.
Possibly he may have mistaken it for his old friend, for he
immediately became attached to the dog, and appeared uneasy
whenever it was taken away. Now and then the dangerous experiment
was tried of allowing the terrier to remain while the tiger was
fed. Presuming on their friendship, the dog occasionally ventured
to approach him; but the tiger showed his true nature on such
occasions by snarling in a way which made the little animal quickly
retreat.

He had been in England two years, when one of the seamen of the
_Pitt_ came to the Tower. The animal at once recognized his
old friend, and appeared so delighted, that the sailor begged to be
allowed to go into the den. The tiger, on this, rubbed himself
against him, licked his hands, and fawned on him as a cat would
have done. The sailor remained in the den for a couple of hours or
more, during which time the tiger kept so close to him, that it was
evident he would have some difficulty in getting out again, without
the animal making his escape at the same time. The den consisted of
two compartments. At last the keeper contrived to entice the tiger
to the inner one, when he closed the slide, and the seaman was
liberated.


Even a wolf, savage as that animal is, may, if caught young, and
treated kindly, become tame.

A story is told of a wolf which showed a considerable amount of
affection for its master. He had brought it up from a puppy, and it
became as tame as the best-trained dog, obeying him in everything.
Having frequently to leave home, and not being able to take the
wolf with him, he sent it to a menagerie, where he knew it would be
carefully looked after. At first the wolf was very unhappy, and
evidently pined for its absent master. At length, resigning itself
to its fate, it made friends with its keepers, and recovered its
spirits.

Fully eighteen months had passed by, when its old master, returning
home, paid a visit to the menagerie. Immediately he spoke, the wolf
recognized his voice, and made strenuous efforts to get free. On
being set at liberty it sprang forward, and leaped up and caressed
him like a dog. Its master, however, left it with its keepers, and
three years passed away before he paid another visit to the
menagerie. Notwithstanding this lapse of time, the wolf again
recognized him, and exhibited the same marks of affection.

On its master again going away, the wolf became gloomy and
desponding, and refused its food, so that fears were entertained
for its life.

It recovered its health, however, and though it suffered its
keepers to approach, exhibited the savage disposition of its tribe
towards all strangers.

The history of this wolf shows you that the fiercest tempers may be
calmed by gentleness.


Arrant thieves as foxes are, with regard to their domestic virtues
they eminently shine. Both parents take the greatest interest in
rearing and educating their offspring. They provide, in their
burrow, a comfortable nest, lined with feathers, for their new-born
cubs. Should either parent perceive in the neighbourhood of their
abode the slightest sign of human approach, they immediately carry
their young to a spot of greater safety, sometimes many miles away.
They usually set off in the twilight of a fine evening. The papa
fox having taken a survey all round, marches first, the young ones
march singly, and mamma brings up the rear. On reaching a wall or
bank, papa always mounts first, and looks carefully around, rearing
himself on his haunches to command a wider view. He then utters a
short cry, which the young ones, understanding as "Come along!"
instantly obey. All being safely over, mamma follows, pausing in
her turn on the top of the fence, when she makes a careful survey,
especially rearward. She then gives a responsive cry, answering to
"All right!" and follows the track of the others. Thus the party
proceed on their march, repeating the same precautions at each
fresh barrier.

When peril approaches, the wary old fox instructs his young ones to
escape with turns and doublings on their path, while he himself
will stand still on some brow or knoll, where he can both see and
be seen. Having thus drawn attention to himself, he will take to
flight in a different direction. Occasionally, while the young
family are disporting themselves near their home, if peril
approach, the parents utter a quick, peculiar cry, commanding the
young ones to hurry to earth; knowing that, in case of pursuit,
they have neither strength nor speed to secure their escape. They
themselves will then take to flight, and seek some distant place of
security.

The instruction they afford their young is varied. Sometimes the
parents toss bones into the air for the young foxes to catch. If
the little one fails to seize it before it falls to the ground, the
parent will snap at him in reproof. If he catches it cleverly, papa
growls his approval, and tosses it up again. This sport continues
for a considerable time.


As I have said, no other animals so carefully educate their young
in the way they should go, as does the fox. He is a good husband,
an excellent father, capable of friendship, and a very intelligent
member of society; but all the while, it must be confessed, an
incorrigible rogue and thief.

A gentleman was lying one summer's day under the shelter of some
shrubs on the banks of the Tweed, when his attention was attracted
by the cries of wild-fowl, accompanied by a great deal of
fluttering and splashing. On looking round, he perceived a large
brood of ducks, which had been disturbed by the drifting of a fir
branch among them. After circling in the air for a little time,
they again settled down on their feeding-ground.

Two or three minutes elapsed, when the same event again occurred. A
branch drifted down with the stream into the midst of the ducks,
and startled them from their repast. Once more they rose upon the
wing, clamouring loudly, but when the harmless bough had drifted
by, settled themselves down upon the water as before. This occurred
so frequently, that at last they scarcely troubled themselves to
flutter out of the way, even when about to be touched by the
drifting bough.

The gentleman, meantime, marking the regular intervals at which the
fir branches succeeded each other in the same track, looked for a
cause, and perceived, at length, higher up the bank of the stream,
a fox, which, having evidently sent them adrift, was eagerly
watching their progress and the effect they produced. Satisfied
with the result, cunning Reynard at last selected a larger branch
of spruce-fir than usual, and couching himself down on it, set it
adrift as he had done the others. The birds, now well trained to
indifference, scarcely moved till he was in the midst of them,
when, making rapid snaps right and left, he secured two fine young
ducks as his prey, and floated forward triumphantly on his raft;
while the surviving fowls, clamouring in terror, took to flight,
and returned no more to the spot.


A labourer going to his work one morning sight of a fox stretched
out at full length under a bush. Believing it to be dead, the man
drew it out by the tail, and swung it about to assure himself of
the fact. Perceiving no symptoms of life, he then threw it over his
shoulder, intending to make a cap of the skin, and ornament his
cottage wall with the brush. While the fox hung over one shoulder,
his mattock balanced it on the other. The point of the instrument,
as he walked along, every now and then struck against the ribs of
the fox, which, not so dead as the man supposed, objected to this
proceeding, though he did not mind being carried along with his
head downward. Losing patience, he gave a sharp snap at that
portion of the labourer's body near which his head hung. The man,
startled by this sudden attack, threw fox and mattock to the
ground, when, turning round, he espied the live animal making off
at full speed.


I have still another story to tell about cunning Reynard. Daylight
had just broke, when a well-known naturalist, gun in hand,
wandering in search of specimens, observed a large fox making his
way along the skirts of a plantation. Reynard looked cautiously
over the turf-wall into the neighbouring field, longing evidently
to get hold of some of the hares feeding in it, well aware that he
had little chance of catching one by dint of running. After
examining the different gaps in the wall, he fixed on one which
seemed to be the most frequented, and laid himself down close to
it, in the attitude of a cat watching a mouse-hole. He next scraped
small hollow in the ground, to form a kind of screen. Now and then
he stopped to listen, or take a cautious peep into the field. This
done, he again laid himself down, and remained motionless, except
when occasionally his eagerness induced him to reconnoitre the
feeding hares.

One by one, as the sun rose, they made their way from the field to
the plantation. Several passed, but he moved not, except to crouch
still closer to the ground. At length two came directly towards
him. The involuntary motion of his ears, though he did not venture
to look up, showed that he was aware of their approach. Like
lightning, as they were leaping through the gap, Reynard was upon
them, and catching one, killed her immediately. He was decamping
with his booty, when a rifle-ball put an end to his career.


I must tell you one more story about a fox, and a very interesting
little animal it was, though not less cunning than its relatives in
warmer regions.

Mr. Hayes, the Arctic explorer, had a beautiful little snow-white
fox, which was his companion in his cabin when his vessel was
frozen up during the winter. She had been caught in a trap, but
soon became tame, and used to sit in his lap during meals, with her
delicate paws on the cloth. A plate and fork were provided for her,
though she was unable to handle the fork herself; and little bits
of raw venison, which she preferred to seasoned food. When she took
the morsels into her mouth, her eyes sparkled with delight. She
used to wipe her lips, and look up at her master with a
_coquetterie_ perfectly irresistible. Sometimes she exhibited
much impatience; but a gentle rebuke with a fork on the tip of the
nose was sufficient to restore her patience.

When sufficiently tame, she was allowed to run loose in the cabin;
but she got into the habit of bounding over the shelves, without
much regard for the valuable and perishable articles lying on them.

She soon also found out the bull's-eye overhead, through the cracks
round which she could sniff the cool air. Close beneath it she
accordingly took up her abode; and thence she used to crawl down
when dinner was on the table, getting into her master's lap, and
looking up longingly and lovingly into his face, sometimes putting
out her little tongue with impatience, and barking, if the
beginning of the repast was too long delayed.

To prevent her climbing, she was secured by a slight chain. This
she soon managed to break, and once having performed the operation,
she did not fail to attempt it again. To do this, she would first
draw herself back as far as she could get, and then suddenly dart
forward, in the hope of snapping it by the jerk; and though she was
thus sent reeling on the floor, she would again pick herself up,
panting as if her little heart would break, shake out her
disarranged coat, and try once more. When observed, however, she
would sit quietly down, cock her head cunningly on one side, follow
the chain with her eye along its whole length to its fastening on
the floor, walk leisurely to that point, hesitating a moment, and
then make another plunge. All this time she would eye her master
sharply, and if he moved, she would fall down on the floor at once,
and pretend to be asleep.

She was a very neat and cleanly creature, everlastingly brushing
her clothes, and bathing regularly in a bath of snow provided for
her in the cabin. This last operation was her great delight. She
would throw up the white flakes with her diminutive nose, rolling
about and burying herself in them, wipe her face with her soft
paws, and then mount to the side of the tub, looking round her
knowingly, and barking the prettiest bark that ever was heard. This
was her way of enforcing admiration; and being now satisfied with
her performance, she would give a goodly number of shakes to her
sparkling coat, then, happy and refreshed, crawl into her airy bed
in the bull's-eye, and go to sleep.


The Indian believes the bear to be possessed not only of a
wonderful amount of sagacity, but of feelings akin to those of
human beings. Though most species are savage when irritated, some
of them occasionally exhibit good humour and kindness.

A story is told of a man in Russia, who on an expedition in search
of honey, climbed into a high tree. The trunk was hollow, and he
discovered a large cone within. He was descending to obtain it,
when he stuck fast. Unable to extricate himself, and too far from
home to make his voice heard, he remained in that uncomfortable
position for two days, sustaining his life by eating the honey. He
had become silent from despair, when, looking up, what was his
horror to see a huge bear above him, tempted by the same object
which had led him into his dangerous predicament, and about to
descend into the interior of the tree!

Bears--very wisely--when getting into hollows of rocks or trees, go
tail-end first, that they may be in a position to move out again
when necessary. No sooner, in spite of his dismay, did the tail of
the bear reach him, than the man caught hold of it. The animal,
astonished at finding some big creature below him, when he only
expected to meet with a family of bees, against whose stings his
thick hide was impervious, quickly scrambled out again, dragging up
the man, who probably shouted right lustily. Be that as it may, the
bear waddled off at a quick rate, and the honey-seeker made his way
homeward, to relate his adventure, and relieve the anxiety of his
family.


The brown bear, which lives in Siberia, may be considered among the
most good-natured of his tribe. Mr. Atkinson, who travelled in that
country, tells us that some peasants--a father and mother--had one
day lost two of their children, between four and six years of age.
It was soon evident that their young ones had wandered away to a
distance from their home, and as soon as this discovery was made
they set off in search of them.

Having proceeded some way through the wilds, they caught sight in
the distance of a large animal, which, as they got nearer, they
discovered to be a brown bear; and what was their horror to see
within its clutches their lost young ones! Their sensations of
dismay were exchanged for astonishment, when they saw the children
running about, laughing, round the bear, sometimes taking it by the
paws, and sometimes pulling it by the tail. The monster, evidently
amused with their behaviour, treated them in the most affectionate
manner. One of the children now produced some fruit, with which it
fed its shaggy playfellow, while the other climbed up on its back,
and sat there, fearlessly urging its strange steed to move on. The
parents gave way to cries of terror at seeing the apparent danger
to which their offspring were exposed. The little boy, however,
having slipped off the bear's back, the animal, hearing the sound
of other voices, left the children, and retreated quietly into the
forest.




SOME ANIMAL FRIENDS IN AFRICA

By Bayard Taylor


Years ago I spent a winter in Africa. I had intended to go up the
Nile only as far as Nubia, visiting the great temples and tombs of
Thebes on the way; but when I had done all this, and passed beyond
the cataracts at the southern boundary of Egypt, I found the
journey so agreeable, so full of interest, and attended with so
much less danger than I had supposed, that I determined to go on
for a month or two longer, and penetrate as far as possible into
the interior. Everything was favorable to my plan.

When I reached Khartoum, the Austrian consul invited me to his
house; and there I spent three or four weeks, in that strange town,
making acquaintance with the Egyptian officers, the chiefs of the
desert tribes and the former kings of the different countries of
Ethiopia. When I left my boat, on arriving, and walked through the
narrow streets of Khartoum, between mud walls, very few of which
were even whitewashed, I thought it a miserable place, and began to
look out for some garden where I might pitch my tent, rather than
live in one of those dirty-looking habitations. The wall around the
consul's house was of mud like the others; but when I entered I
found clean, handsome rooms, which furnished delightful shade and
coolness during the heat of the day. The roof was of palm-logs,
covered with mud, which the sun baked into a hard mass, so that the
house was in reality as good as a brick dwelling. It was a great
deal more comfortable than it appeared from the outside.

There were other features of the place, however, which it would be
difficult to find anywhere except in Central Africa. After I had
taken possession of my room, and eaten breakfast with my host, I
went out to look at the garden. On each side of the steps leading
down from the door sat two apes, who barked and snapped at me. The
next thing I saw was a leopard tied to the trunk of an orange-tree.
I did not dare to go within reach of his rope, although I
afterwards became well acquainted with him. A little farther, there
was a pen of gazelles and an antelope with immense horns; then two
fierce, bristling hyenas; and at last, under a shed beside the
stable, a full-grown lioness sleeping in the shade. I was greatly
surprised when the consul went up to her, lifted up her head,
opened her jaws so as to show the shining white tusks, and finally
sat down upon her hack.

She accepted these familiarities so good-naturedly that I made bold
to pat her head also. In a day or two we were great friends; she
would spring about with delight whenever she saw me, and would purr
like a cat whenever I sat upon her back. I spent an hour or two
every day among the animals, and found them all easy to tame except
the hyenas, which would gladly have bitten me if I had allowed them
a chance. The leopard, one day, bit me slightly on the hand; but I
punished him by pouring several buckets of water over him, and he
was always very amiable after that. The beautiful little gazelles
would cluster around me, thrusting up their noses into my hand, and
saying "Wow! wow!" as plainly as I write it. But none of these
animals attracted me as much as the big lioness. She was always
good-humored, though occasionally so lazy that she would not even
open her eyes when I sat down on her shoulder. She would sometimes
catch my foot in her paws as a kitten catches a ball, and try to
make a plaything of it,--yet always without thrusting out her
claws. Once she opened Her mouth, and gently took one of my legs in
her jaws for a moment; and the very next instant she put out her
tongue and licked my hand. There seemed to be almost as much of the
dog as of the cat in her nature. We all know, however, that there
are differences of character among animals as there are among men;
and my favorite probably belonged to a virtuous and respectable
family of lions.


The day after my arrival I went with the consul to visit the pacha,
who lived in a large mud palace on the bank of the Blue Nile. He
received us very pleasantly, and invited us to take seats in the
shady court-yard. Here there was a huge panther tied to one of the
pillars, while a little lion, about eight months old, ran about
perfectly loose. The pacha called the latter, which came springing
and frisking towards him. "Now," said he, "we will have some fun."
He then made the lion lie down behind one of the pillars, and
called to one of the black boys to go across the court-yard on some
errand. The lion lay quite still until the boy came opposite to the
pillar, when he sprang out after him. The boy ran, terribly
frightened; but the lion reached him in five or six leaps, sprang
upon his back and threw him down, and then went back to the pillar
as if quite satisfied with his exploit. Although the boy was not
hurt in the least, it seemed to me like a cruel piece of fun.

The pacha, nevertheless, laughed very heartily, and told us that he
had himself trained the lion to frighten the boys.


Presently the little lion went away, and when we came to look for
him, we found him lying on one of the tables in the kitchen of the
palace, apparently very much interested in watching the cook. The
latter told us that the animal sometimes took small pieces of meat,
but seemed to know that it was not permitted, for he would run away
afterwards in great haste. What I saw of lions during my residence
in Khartoum satisfied me that they are not very difficult to tame,
only, as they belong to the cat family, no dependence can be placed
on their continued good behavior....


Although I was glad to leave that wild town, with its burning
climate, and retrace the long way back to Egypt, across the
Desert and down the Nile, I felt very sorry at being obliged to
take leave forever of all my pets. The little gazelles said, "Wow!
wow!" in answer to my "Good-bye"; the hyenas howled and tried to
bite, just as much as ever; but the dear old lioness I know would
have been sorry if she could have understood that I was going. She
frisked around me, licked my hand, and I took her great tawny head
into my arms, and gave her a kiss. Since then I have never had a
lion for a pet, and may never have one again. I must confess I am
sorry for it; for I still retain my love for lions (four-footed
ones, I mean), to this day.




MY FIGHT WITH A CATAMOUNT

By Allen French


My guide, Alaric, and I had gone in after moose to the country
beyond Mud Brook, in Maine. There its watershed between the east
branch and the west is cut up into valleys, in one or another of
which a herd of moose, in winter, generally takes up quarters. It
was not yet yarding-time, for the snow was still only about four
inches deep, making it just right for the moose-hunter who is at
the same time a sportsman.

Our task was a slow one; we had to examine each valley for moose
tracks, tramping up one side and down the other, or as we usually
managed it, separating at the valley's mouth, each taking a side,
meeting at the end and then, if unsuccessful, taking the quickest
way back to camp.

And unsuccessful we were, since for three days we found no trail.
But Alaric was not in the least discouraged.

"You can never tell about moose," he said; "they travel so. There
were moose in this country before the snow, and there are moose
within a day's walk of us now. It's just as I told you; we may have
to spend five days in finding where they are."

It was on the second day that we found that, while after moose, we
had been tracked by a catamount. The print of its paw was
generously large.

"I've seen bigger," said Alaric, "but this feller's big enough.
He's just waiting round, I guess, so as to get some of the meat we
kill. We'll remember him," he said, looking up at me as he knelt on
the snow, "so's to see that he doesn't spoil the hide or the head."

I accepted the theory, and thought little more of the matter for
twenty-four hours.

At the end of the third day we found that the catamount had for a
second time been following our trail--not only _our_ trail,
but also _mine._

He had followed me all day as I walked along the hillside, looking
ahead and on both sides, but seldom behind. Alaric examined his
tracks carefully for half a mile.

"He was in sight of you all the way," he said. "See here, where he
stood for some time, just shifting about in one place, watching?" I
saw--and thought.

After a while, it seemed to me, a catamount might get tired of
waiting for us to kill his meat, and would start in to kill it for
himself. Unquestionably the easiest game for him to get would be
human.

For there were no deer in the region, and the caribou were all
herded on Katahdin and Traveller. The previous severe winter had
decimated the partridges, and big is the catamount that will tackle
a moose. I mentioned the theory to Alaric.

"Um--yes, perhaps," he said, and eyed me dubiously.

Then I wished that I had not said anything. It is not well to let
your guide think that you are afraid.

In the morning, when we had attained our valley's mouth, Alaric was
about to keep with me, instead of leaving me as before; but that
made our hunting much slower, for we could cover much less ground,
and I sent him around the other way.

"All right," said he. "But keep a good lookout behind you now."

He disappeared in a cedar swamp, and I made my way along the slope
of a hill. I watched indeed behind as well as in front, and in
every fox's track I crossed I saw a catamount's, until finally I
got used to the situation, and believed that the "Indian devil" had
concluded to let me alone.

The day was fine. The sun shone bright, and the softening snow,
dropping from the upper branches of the trees, kept up a constant
movement in the woods. I took and held a good pace, and with my
eyes searching the snow ahead and on all sides of me for signs of
moose, walked for a full hour, seeing nothing living but the
woodpeckers and the chickadees, hearing nothing but the rustle of
the branches, as released of their loads they sprang back into
place. Then, quite needlessly, I found insecure footing under the
snow, and plunged suddenly at full length. My rifle whirled from my
hand with force, and I heard it strike against the uncovered top of
a sugar-loaf stone. I jumped up in fear and hastily examined it.
The breech was shattered--my rifle was as useless as any stick.

Now I thought of the catamount, as, with the broken rifle in my
hands, I looked about me in the woods, bright with sun and snow. I
was not entirely helpless, for my revolver and knife were in my
belt.

Yet a thirty-eight calibre revolver, even with a long cartridge and
a long barrel, is not a sure defence against an animal as heavy as
myself, which in facing me would present for a mark only a round
head and a chest with muscles so thick and knotty that they would
probably stop any revolver bullet. I doubted my ability to hit the
eye.

Very likely I was no longer followed; and in any case, I might call
Alaric. And yet he was too far away for a shout to reach him, and I
dared not fire signal-shots, for in order to travel light, I had
left at camp all revolver cartridges but those in the chambers.

So I started at once for the bottom of the valley, hoping to strike
Alaric's trail on the opposite slope, and intending to follow it
until I caught him.

My rifle I left where it was; it was useless and heavy. I cast many
a glance behind me as, almost at a trot, I made my way down the
long hillside.

I strode on rapidly, for I had certainly a mile to cover before I
could strike Alaric's trail, much more before I could catch my
nimble guide. I was cheerful and unalarmed until, pausing to look
behind, I saw, a hundred yards away, a tawny animal quickly slip
behind a tree.

I hastily drew my revolver and knife; but no movement came from its
hidden breast, and rather than stand and wait, I pursued my
retreat. I moved more slowly, yet as fast as I could and still
guard myself against another fall and watch for a rush from behind.
I scanned the ground in front of me, and glanced back every second.
For some time I saw no more of the catamount.

But when I did see him, I was startled at his nearness; he was
within fifty yards. I hurried on as he slipped aside again; but
looking again in a moment, I saw him now following boldly upon my
trail. I stopped, but he stopped, too, and stood regarding me. He
was too far away for me to fire yet, and as he made no movement to
approach, I cautiously continued my retreat, always after a few
steps stopping to face him.

He stopped as I stopped, yet each time I turned away he came
quickly closer. I was already thinking of awaiting him without
further movement, when the way was blocked by a ravine.

It was cut by the stream that drained the valley, and its steep
sides were nearly fifteen feet in height. They even overhung in
places, but this I did not then know. I was in no mind to trust
myself in the deep gully, where the catamount might drop upon me
before I could scramble out upon the other side.

I walked into an open space, and took my stand close to a birch
that grew on the very edge of the bank. For thirty feet there was
no good cover for the catamount; so, armed and determined, I waited
his action.

The animal skirted the bushes about me, as if examining the ground,
and to my disappointment, began to come upon me along the edge of
the ravine. This gave him the best cover before his charge, and at
the same time assured him that the momentum of his rush would not
carry him tumbling into the gully. Always keeping too well
concealed for a good mark, he crept up behind a fallen tree, on the
near side of which a little bush grew, and flattened himself there,
watching me, I felt sure, and waiting, in the hope that he might
catch me off my guard.

I cannot describe how stealthy and noiseless and altogether perfect
his maneuvering was. Although the trees that grew about were all
small and the bushes bare, and although the white snow gave no
background for concealment, he covered himself so perfectly at one
time, and slipped in and out of sight so quickly at another, that
although I stood with revolver pointed and cocked, I could find no
opportunity for a shot.

As he circled for position he came ever nearer, and I could see at
one time the round head, with its short, pointed ears; at another
the long, sinuous, muscular body; but they moved so rapidly that
before I could shoot they were gone from sight.

All the time he made no sound but a little rustle. In his final
concealment I saw nothing of him but his tail, that twitched and
twitched and twitched.

At last I caught the glint of his pale green eye and fired. There
came a snarl from behind the bush, and it was dashed to one side
and the other, while round head and bared teeth and tawny body came
crashing through. I pulled trigger again, and the report sounded
muffled, and the smoke for an instant obscured the beast. All was
white, when, like a breath, it passed, and I saw the rushing
catamount not ten feet from me.

I had not time to fire or crouch, but with ready legs hurled myself
to one side, and threw my left arm around the tree that grew at the
edge of the bank. With an awful dread I felt the ground giving way
beneath me.

I dropped my knife and caught the tree closer, when it, too, leaned
to fall. It hung for a moment over the steep slope, and I could not
save myself. The frost had not clamped the over-hang to the solid
ground. The last fall rains had cut it under; the first spring thaw
would have brought it down, had not my weight been thrown upon it.

With a twist the tree and I fell together. I clutched my revolver
desperately, despite the sickening fear of the fall, and in my
grasp it exploded in mid air. Then I fell, and although my body
struck easily in the snow-covered ravine, my right hand had been
beaten against a sharp rock, and the birch was upon me so that I
could not move.

My legs were on the bank, and underneath the snow beneath my
shoulders I soon felt the ice, from which stones protruded. One
snow-covered rock received and supported my head. I lay upon my
right side, and my right hand, swinging in a curve, had struck with
force upon another stone, and lay upon the ice, the only part of my
body, except my head, which was free. My left arm was pressed close
to my side by the birch, which lay across my body and legs.

The weight was not so great but that I could have lifted it, could
I but have gained purchase. But I must at the same time lift my own
body, for my hips were lower than my feet, my shoulders lower than
my hips; and I could not gather ten pounds of force in that
position.

My fall confused me somewhat, and I could not at first feel
anything, either the pain in my hand or the danger I was in. I
noticed only the fine, powdery snow which, cast up by the fall,
settled upon me as I lay. Then I saw my arm, stretched out in front
of me, with a bloody hand at the end of it, and I came fully to
myself.

A pain shot from finger-tip to shoulder as I closed my hand tighter
upon the butt of the revolver. But I clenched my teeth and tried to
rise--tried twice more before I gave it up as hopeless. Then I
raised my hand and put it in a better position, propped upon a
stone.

The movements hurt me terribly, but I thought of the catamount,
which would surely not be satisfied with two bullets for its
breakfast. I was scarcely ready when the head of the beast was
thrust over the edge of the bank to look for me.

He saw, and gloated as a human enemy might have done. His savage
snarl was full of intelligence, and his slow approach was
deliberate torture. He stood for a moment in full view--then
slipped and slid down to the surface of the ice, where, ten yards
away, he stood and looked at me.

I saw his magnificent build, his superb muscular development, as
with his body in profile, his head turned toward me, he waited
before approaching, playing with my helplessness; but I was not
entirely helpless! With shaking hand I took aim; I could not use my
thumb to cock the revolver, but drew hard at the trigger, and the
hammer rose and fell.

My turn for gloating had come now, for the catamount was crying
with rage and pain. He fell writhing, striking with his forepaws at
the snow, and raising his head to snap at nothing; but this did not
last long. Slowly he dragged himself to a sitting posture, and I
could understand his plight and estimate my own danger.

My first two bullets had but torn his flesh. My last had broken his
back. He was paralyzed in his hind legs, as I have seen a deer, yet
he had many minutes to live, perhaps hours, and was strong and
angry enough to finish me. Painfully he started on that short
journey to me. With his forepaws, his claws digging the snow, he
began to drag himself toward me.

I could only wait. I had but one more shot, and wished to hold it
till he should be close; but my torn hand was weak, and the bruised
tendons had already begun to stiffen. Into that deep place, where
bank and trees overhung, the sun did not come, and I felt the cold
striking into my raw flesh. More than that, my weight upon my
shoulder began to cut off the blood from my arm. I felt pricking in
my flesh, my arm began to be numb, and I feared that I might not be
able to shoot.

If he could but hurry! He dragged himself at a snail's pace. It
would be so long before he came close that my hand would be
useless. Yet as he crawled directly at me, the mark was a poor one.
I saw with satisfaction that he would have to turn aside for one of
the rocks in his path. When at last he reached it, and began to
drag himself around it, he gave me my last chance.

I saw the space behind his shoulder, prayed that my bullet might
miss his ribs, summoned the last force at my almost dead hand, and
fired.

A little drift of air blew the smoke aside so quickly that I could
see the fur fly. He bit savagely at his side, but he crawled on
without stopping. From my numb hand the revolver fell without noise
in the snow--my fight was finished. He came on; he was only fifteen
feet away from me, when he stopped and coughed. Would he sink,
unable to move farther?

No; he started again! Although his legs dragged behind him,
impeding, although he left a red trail on the snow, and each step
forced a snarl from him, he came on. With glittering eyes and
hoarse breath, he forced himself to cross the last space. Minutes
passed before he was close enough to touch me.

Ah! Even as he turned toward my hand to seize it, even as I waited
to see, rather than feel, the crunching of my senseless arm, his
head drooped. He raised it once more, but his power was gone. He
laid his head, once so powerful, upon my hand, rested his body
against the stone, that stood high enough to support him, and
glared at me with his fierce, malignant eyes.

Then the fire changed in his eyes, clouded, flickered, glowed--went
out. The last breath was expelled with a wheeze. He was dead.

Then my own powers sank, and I thought that I was dying, too.
Somewhere in the midst of my faintness I had a sense as if I felt,
rather than heard, hasty, heavy footsteps on the bank above me. As
soon as I knew anything clearly, I knew that the tree had been
pulled away, and that Alaric was bending over me. He had, with ears
alert for any sound, and with footsteps kept as near to me as they
might be with obedience to my order, come rushing to my aid at the
sound at my first revolver-shot. But the distance was so great that
he did not arrive until my fight was over.




IN CANADA WITH A LYNX

By Roe L. Hendrick


This adventure came about through an invitation which Ray Churchill
received from his friend, Jacques Pourbiere of Two Rivers, New
Brunswick. Ray had half-promised to visit his New Brunswick
acquaintance during the deer-hunting season, and late in August was
reminded of the fact. A second letter came in September, the
carefully worded school English of the writer not being able to
conceal the warmth and urgency of the invitation.

So Ray telegraphed his acceptance, and four days later arrived at
Fredericton, where he secured a hunting license. The next morning
he reached Two Rivers, and Jacques met him with a span of ponies,
attached to a queer spring vehicle, mounted on wheels that seemed
out of all proportion to the body of the carriage. Ray wondered if
it was a relic of Acadia, but did not like to ask. They drove for a
dozen miles through a wooded and hilly country, and arrived at
their destination shortly before nightfall.

Jacques was quite alone at the time, as his parents had gone to
visit their older children along the St. John River. He promised
Ray at least one deer within a couple of days, and another within a
week.

The Pourbiere home resembled those of the better class of
_habitants_, but with a difference due to the greater prosperity
of the family in preceding generations. The main room had a huge
fireplace, used only occasionally, for there was an air-tight
stove connected with the chimney just above it, to afford
greater warmth in winter. The other rooms Were chiefly detached,
although there was an entry-like porch on the south front of the
living-room, and a huge door opening at the east end, both
connecting with the yard outside.

But the wood-shed, milk-house and summer kitchen were in the rear,
each being a rectangular building of heavy logs, with low lofts
above. The homestead was, in fact, a cluster of houses rather than
a single dwelling.

What most attracted Ray's attention were the huge bedsteads in the
living-room. They were tall four-posters, such as he had seen
elsewhere, but with the difference that a canopy covered them. Each
had a carved wooden frame, surmounting the top of the posts like a
roof. The wood was black with age, its surface being covered with
elaborate foliage and armorial devices, representing the toil of
some old French artisan of the seventeenth century. They probably
had been brought across the Atlantic by the original emigrant, and
carefully preserved ever since. They stood in diagonally opposite
corners of the room, and upheld the hugest of feather beds, with
gay, home-made worsted coverlets and valances that shamed the hues
of the rainbow. They certainly tempted to rest in that climate and
at that season, but would have seemed suffocating in a warmer
region.

That evening Ray said:

"See here, Jacques, you have double windows, with no way of opening
them that I can find, and your fireplace is closed to make a better
draft for this stove. I'm used to fresh air at night. If I leave
the end door ajar, you won't be afraid of burglars, will you?"

The Canadian shrugged his shoulders at this exhibition of his
guest's eccentricity, but his hospitality was more than equal to
the strain.

_"Non, non!"_ he replied. "Nobody rob. We nevaire lock doors
here," and his white teeth flashed.

Ray laughed softly as he thrust a billet of wood between the door
and its frame. "But why do you say 'br-r-r!' under your breath?" he
asked.

"Co-old before morning, ver' cold!"

"I know, but we'll be snug in bed, and won't feel it. You Canadians
wouldn't have so much consumption if you breathed purer air when
you slept."

_"Oui!"_ was the polite reply; and nothing more was said.

Long before dawn Ray sprang from bed, closed the door and stirred
up the fire. The moon, although low in the west, was still
brilliant when they made their way to where a stream trickled down
to Cedar Lake, and within a half-hour got their first deer, a fine
three-year-old buck.

They secured some smaller game during the morning, and in the
afternoon took the deer home, and skinned and dressed it. Most of
the carcass was hung up in the milk-room, but Jacques carried a
hind quarter in and suspended it beside the closed fireplace, later
cutting off steaks for supper and breakfast.

They passed a merry evening, each telling stories of his
experiences, which were so different in quality that they possessed
all the charm of novelty to the respective listeners. Again Ray set
the door ajar, after they had undressed, and in a few moments both
were asleep.

Several hours passed. Had either young man been awake, he might
have heard soft footfalls about the door. A squatty, heavily built
animal, with huge feet, bob tail, and pointed ears adorned with
tufts of hair, had traced the slaughtered deer to the farmhouse by
means of drops of blood, and now was searching eagerly for the
meat.

He sought the milk-room again and again, and even sprang to the
window-ledge, but could not get inside. Then he came back and
sniffed at the partly open door of the living-room.

The human smell was there, and he hesitated. But so, too, was the
odor of fresh venison, and his mouth watered.

A round head was thrust inside the door. The moon, peering above
the hemlocks to the southeastward, cast its rays through a window
directly upon the fresh meat.

The temptation was greater than the intruder was able to withstand.
Inch by inch he crowded past the swaying door, and silently crept
toward the venison. The two men were breathing very loudly, but
neither stirred; and at last he gathered supreme courage, and
leaped upon the meat.

It fell with a crash against the stove, and the two were awakened
simultaneously. As Jacques sprang from the bed, the animal backed,
dragging the quarter of venison toward the door. He collided with
it, knocking the billet of wood outside, and the latch fell into
place with a clash.

Finding himself a prisoner, the creature advanced, spitting and
growling, straight at Jacques, who, crying, _"Loup cervier! loup
cervier!"_ retreated to the bed.

But the pursuit did not end there. Seeing that the beast was about
to leap upon the bed, the Canadian hastily climbed one of the
posts, not a second too soon, and ensconced himself on the edge of
the canopy top, with his back pressed against the timbers of the
loft floor above.

Ray had been too much amazed to interfere at first, but now the
time seemed ripe to reopen the door and drive the lynx out. He made
a rush, but the angry creature turned and dashed at his legs so
viciously that in a couple of seconds he, too, found himself
perched precariously on the canopy of his own bed, with "prick-ears"
spitting and snarling on the coverlet.

"Can that beast climb up here, like a cat?" he asked, with no
little anxiety in his tones.

_"Oui,"_ was the reply, "he can; but _loup cerviers_ don'
climb mooch."

In a few moments the lynx went back to the venison, and began
eating it voraciously, only stopping to snarl when the young men
spoke or moved. The fire was very low, the room had been well
aired, and the two were thinly clad. Before long their teeth were
chattering.

"Eef Ah can get heem away from door, Ah'll roon an' get goon an'
feex heem!" Jacques said, with marked ill-will underlying his
quaint English. He clambered about the creaking canopy frame, which
threatened to collapse at any moment, till he reached the side
wall. Along this were suspended loops of onions. A big one hurtled
through the air and hit the intruder in the side. He whirled about
and dashed for the bed.

Babette, the family cat, had been concealed beneath this bed during
the preceding scrimmage. She now thrust out her head just in time
to be seen by the lynx, and the liveliest sort of chase about the
room ensued.

When hard pressed, she somehow reached a shelf close beside Ray,
climbed recklessly over him, her claws stabbing him in a dozen
places, and hid behind him. The lynx was thoroughly aroused, and
although clumsier and heavier, set out sturdily to follow.

Ray's hand fell on the shelf, and clutched a flat-iron, of which
there were a half-dozen in a row. Leaning forward, he struck the
oncomer a hard blow over the head. Prick-ears fell to the floor,
and rolled, writhing, struggling and half-stunned, under the bed.

"Now, Jacques, now!" Ray yelled. His host jumped, and was outside
the door in an instant. Ray grasped another flat-iron and waited.
The sound of struggling beneath the bed was unabated.

In five minutes he heard a plaintive voice calling outside:

"Where you put dem goons?"

"In the milk-room."

_"Oui,_ but where? Ah'm freezing!"

"I--I don't remember."

Jacques, saying many things in a _patois_ he had never learned
in the provincial school, went back to the milk-room. The lynx
ventured to show his head, and a flat-iron dented the floor close
beside it. Then the animal circled the room, dodged another
missile, and hid in a dark corner.

Ray could hear Jacques tossing things about in the obscurity of the
milk-room, but plainly finding no guns, and as plainly getting
colder every minute.

Something must be done at once. He clutched a flat-iron in each
hand, screwed his courage to the sticking point, and dropped to the
floor.

As he flung the door wide open, he heard the rasping of the lynx's
claws on the boards behind him. He dashed outside, threw both
flat-irons wildly at his pursuer, and jumped as far as he could to
one side. The lynx kept straight on, headed for the woods a few
rods away.

Jacques had found his gun at last. He took a flying shot in the
moonlight, hitting a tree at least a rod at the lynx's right. Then
the two went inside, enlivened the fire, and dressed as hastily as
possible.

"Consumption is bad, ver' bad for Canadians," said Jacques, a
half-hour later, picking his words with care.

Ray grinned, but made no reply.

"Night air is good; but Ah don' lak dese--dese beeg microbes eet
bring in."




SOLOMON'S GROUCH: THE STORY OF A BEAR

By Franklin W. Calkins


A pet grizzly bear had been for a number of years a feature
at Hartranft's. As a puny infant, barely able to crawl, Solomon,
as he was solemnly dubbed, was brought in off the Teton Mountains,
and as milk was scarcer than money at the horse-ranch, he was
aristocratically fed on malted milk.

On this expensive diet the cub throve amazingly. Good feeding was
continued after his weaning from the rubber nipple, and at the end
of three years Solomon had grown to be a fat wooly monster. He was
kept chained to a post in the warm season, and had an enclosed
stall in a big barn for his winter quarters. Ordinarily he was
good-natured, but he was a rough and not altogether safe
playfellow. The near-by bawling of cattle always aroused in him
ebullitions of rage.

"Solomon's got an awful grouch agin any noise bigger than what he
can make hisself," was the saying of the ranch hands.

When Joe Hartranft's sister, Mrs. Murray, and her two boys, Rufe
and Perry, came to the ranch to spend the month of June, Solomon
was promptly hustled into his stall in the barn. It was thought
best to have no boys fooling round the grizzly.

This would undoubtedly have been the safest disposition, but for an
oversight of the "stable boss." A big Percheron had been kept loose
in a closed stall adjoining Solomon's, and one day, when the bear's
voice was raised in remonstrance against his shrill neighing, he
had turned his heels loose against the partition which separated
them. His fierce battery had loosened two boards four or five feet
above the floor. And the cracks he made had gone unnoted, or at
least the mending had been neglected.

A few days after the visitors came, a fine shorthorn cow with a new
calf was turned into the barn for the day.

Men and work-horses were at work at the alfalfa-cutting, and the
bear and cow and calf were sole occupants of the barn when Rufe and
Perry mounted an outside ladder and entered its loft.

This loft, with its grain-bins, its huge empty space, its
cross-beams and braces, offered an attractive gymnasium. In one of
the bins, used chiefly for storage, they discovered a lot of
fishing-tackle, seines and spears of various sorts for taking the
salmon which annually ran up the Snake River and its tributaries.

They had ventured to drag out one of the seines and unroll it on
the floor of the loft, when the cow below them broke into
distressful bawling. Peering down a square aperture, through which
hay was lifted by machine forks in the season of storing, they saw
that the calf had got in between the wheels of two buggies which
were housed on one side of the driveway.

The feeble creature was stuck fast enough, and the helpless dam
could only bellow her distress. The boys, in spite of some fear of
the cow, would have gone down to extricate the calf, but at this
instant Solomon roused in his lair, and took a hand in the
demonstration.

His uproar became frightful as the cow, more than ever alarmed for
her calf, continued to bawl. There was a trap-door raised for
ventilation over Solomon's stall, and the boys ran eagerly to have
a look at the grizzly.

They were highly entertained for a moment. Hair on end, teeth
gnashing, Solomon charged back and forth in his enclosure. Then he
reared up on his hind legs and clawed at the pine planks which shut
him in. He had not long continued this performance when his claws
caught in the crack of a loosened board. There was a ripping creak
and a crash, and down came the board. Another followed, and
Solomon, ceasing his violent threats for the instant, peered
through a wide gap into another domain. His hesitation was brief;
he scrambled through, walked out of the open door of the
horse-stall into an alley, and sought wider range.

At first the boys were a little frightened, but they concluded that
Solomon would not be able to climb into the loft, and that it was
safer for them to stay above than to go down the ladder, for the
grizzly might easily push aside one of the half-dozen sliding doors
and get out of the barn.

The barn was at a considerable distance from the house, so they
determined not to alarm the women unless Solomon should get outside
and so make it necessary. They sat for a time listening to the
monotonous bawling of the cow. Solomon seemed to have lost interest
in her noise, as they heard him now and then rummaging among the
empty stalls.

They had begun to hope that the bear would not find his way out of
the stalls, when they heard him scrambling heavily.

Then came a resounding thump as he dropped from one of the open
mangers to the floor of the barn.

Almost instantly a terrific bawling and uproar broke out below.
Solomon had reached the cow at last. The boys ran to the edge of
the hay-lift and peered down. The cow was directly underneath, had
backed up against the buggies, and stood tossing her head and
bawling like a crazy thing.

Dropping their eyes below the level of the loft floor, the lads saw
Solomon coming round a pile of new alfalfa which had been unloaded
in front of the central stalls. His rage was terrific, although he
advanced slowly to the attack.

He came under the wide opening and swayed back and forth before the
cow like a tiger in its cage, roaring his threats and watching for
an opening to get by the lowered horns. He was a creature of
instinct, and with a veteran's precaution before a wicked pair of
horns.

Nevertheless the cow, in a lightning charge, caught him broadside
on, and bore him, in a swift rush, into the midst of the heap of
clover. But for that soft padding for his ribs, it would have gone
hard with Solomon. He was doubled up and thrust into the soft mass,
fighting wildly.

Bear and cow were buried in a storm of clover and flying hay. They
twisted about. Then the bear got his back braced against a stall
and his hind feet against the cow, and he bowled her into the
middle of the barn.

With a huge grunt she alighted on her side and rolled clean over.
As she scrambled to her feet, full of pluck and snorting fiercely,
Solomon issued from the midst of the alfalfa-heap, and again the
two faced each other, filling the barn with loudmouthed threats.

It was a splendid and exciting battle, but Rufe and Perry, certain
that the bear would kill the cow unless prevented, felt that they
must do something. They had heard their Uncle Joe say that, since
Solomon was getting crosser, he would give him away if anybody
could be found to come and get him.

Since nobody else was within reach, they cast about for some means
of distracting Solomon from his fell purpose. Better kill the bear,
if possible, than let him destroy a valuable farm animal. Suddenly,
as the bear came directly beneath, Perry bethought him of the
fish-spears.

In a twinkling he had one in hand, and was standing over the wide
aperture.

"That's it! That's it!" shouted Rufe. "Stab him! Stick it clear
into him! That'll keep him busy for a while!"

Solomon was again weaving back and forth before the threatening
horns, and as he came within easy reach, Perry gave him a fierce
thrust between the shoulders. As the tines pierced his muscles, the
bear reared to his hind legs with a whining roar of pain. Perry,
still clinging to the handle of the spear, was suddenly thrown off
his perch and tumbled head foremost upon the grizzly!

Thus the peril of breaking bones in falling was avoided in the
peril of rolling on the barn floor in the clutches of a mad
grizzly!

The bear had twisted his neck to seize the spear-handle, and when
Perry hit him, was bowled over on his side.

The spear-handle snapped in his teeth, and as he wrenched
frantically at the fragment, its tines were twisted, cutting deeper
into his flesh.

This wound, the first he had ever received, set Solomon crazy.

He paid not the slightest heed to boy or cow, but rolled and
threshed, biting at the fragment of spear-handle, giving vent to
his rage and pain in a hoarse, distressful roar.

Perry might easily have scrambled to his feet and escaped, but he
also was flung at full length on the floor, and instantly Solomon,
in distress, rolled over him, crushing the breath from his lungs.

The terrified Rufe, looking down upon his brother's blackened face
and the bear's wicked claws waving above it, leaped to his feet and
started to run to the barn-loft door, to scream for help.

At less than half the distance, his feet caught in the meshes of
the unrolled net, and he measured his length on the floor.

As he quickly untangled a foot, the thought flashed into his mind,
"Throw this net upon the bear's legs!" In a flash he was at the
edge of the open floor and hauling the big seine in coils at his
feet.

When he had a heap to the height of his knees he gathered it in his
arms and dropped the coils upon Solomon's waving legs.

The bear's claws took instant hold of the stout meshes, and bruin,
feeling his feet entangled, wrenched at their fastenings, rolling
himself over on his side and off the body of the prostrate boy.
Perry, well-nigh smothered, had barely strength enough to crawl out
of reach of the whirlwind fight which now took place.

Even the cow was awed to silence by the uproar of Solomon's rage as
he fought with the entangling folds of the salmon net.

The seine needed no attendance. It did its own work once the
grizzly's legs had been thrust through its meshes.

Coil after coil, the hundred and fifty feet of seine came down out
of the loft as the bear rolled and pitched and tumbled. The more he
tore and threshed, the more meshes there were to enwrap and
entangle him.

In five minutes from the time its first meshes dropped upon him,
the net had Solomon so wound and bound that his legs were
immovable, and he could barely wriggle his neck.

Perry soon recovered his breath, and before they ran to the field
to tell of Solomon's plight, the two boys had the presence of mind
to pen the cow up where she could not, should she take a notion,
gore the helpless grizzly.

Amid both laughter and commiseration, blended with comments on the
pluck of the two youngsters, the ranchmen performed a surgical
operation on the helpless Solomon, extracting the spear from his
flesh. With much greater difficulty they freed him from the seine
and got him back into his lair.



A DROLL FOX-TRAP

By C. A. Stephens

When I was a boy I lived in one of those rustic neighborhoods on
the outskirts of the great "Maine woods." Foxes were plenty, for
about all those sunny pioneer clearings birch-partridges breed by
thousands, as also field-mice and squirrels, making plenty of game
for Reynard.

There were red foxes, "cross-grays," and "silver-grays;" even black
foxes were reported. These animals were the pests of the
farm-yards, and made havoc with the geese, cats, turkeys, and
chickens. In the fall of the year, particularly after the frosts,
the clearings were overrun by them night and morning. Their sharp,
cur-like barks used often to rouse us, and of a dark evening we
would hear them out in the fields, "mousing" around the
stone-heaps, making a queer, squeaking sound like a mouse, to call
the real mice out of their grass nests inside the stone-heaps.
This, indeed, is a favorite trick of Reynard.

At the time of my story, my friend Tom Edwards (ten years of age)
and myself were in the turkey business, equal partners. We owned a
flock of thirty-one turkeys. These roosted by night in a large
butternut tree in front of Tom's house--in the very top of it, and
by day they wandered about the edges of the clearings in quest of
beech-nuts, which were very plentiful that fall.

All went well till the last week in October, when, on taking the
census one morning, a turkey was found to be missing; the
thirty-one had become thirty since nightfall the previous evening.
It was the first one we had lost.

We proceeded to look for traces. Our suspicions were divided. Tom
thought it was "the Twombly boys," nefarious Sam in particular. I
thought it might have been an owl. But under the tree, in the soft
dirt, where the potatoes had recently been dug, we found
fox-tracks, and two or three ominous little wads of feathers, with
one long tail feather adrift. Thereupon we concluded that the
turkey had accidentally fallen down out of the butternut--had a
fit, perhaps--and that its flutterings had attracted the attention
of some passing fox, which had, forthwith, taken it in charge. It
was, as we regarded it, one of those unfortunate occurrences which
no care on our part could have well foreseen, and a casualty such
as turkey-raisers are unavoidably heirs to, and we bore our loss
with resignation. We were glad to remember that turkeys did not
often fall off their roosts.

This theory received something of a check when our flock counted
only twenty-nine the next morning. There were more fox-tracks, and
a great many more feathers under the tree. This put a new and
altogether ugly aspect on the matter. No algebra was needed to
figure the outcome of the turkey business at this rate, together
with our prospective profits, in the light of this new fact. It was
clear that something must be done, and at once, too, or ruin would
swallow up the poultry firm.

Rightly or wrongly, we attributed the mischief to a certain
"silver-gray" that had several times been seen in the neighborhood
that autumn.

It would take far too much space to relate in detail the plans we
laid and put in execution to catch that fox during the next two
weeks. I recollect that we set three traps for him to no purpose,
and that we borrowed a fox-hound to hunt him with, but merely
succeeded in running him to the burrow in a neighboring rocky
hill-side, whence we found it quite impossible to dislodge the wily
fellow.

Meanwhile the fox (or foxes) had succeeded in getting two more of
the turkeys.

Heroes, it is said, are born of great crises. This dilemma of ours
developed Tom's genius.

"I'll have that fox," he said, when the traps failed; and when the
hound proved of no avail he still said: "I'll have him yet."

"But how?" I asked. Tom said he would show me. He brought a
two-bushel basket and went out into the fields. In the stone-heaps,
and beside the old logs and stumps, there were dozens of deserted
mouse-nests, each a wad of fine dry grass as large as a quart box.
These were gathered up, and filled the great basket.

"There," said he, triumphantly, "don't them smell _mousey_?"

They did, certainly; they savored as strongly of mice as Tom's
question of bad grammar.

"And don't foxes catch mice?" demanded Tom, confidently.

"Yes, but I don't see how that's going to catch the fox," I said.

"Well, look here, then, I'll show ye," said he. "Play you's the
fox; and play 't was night, and you was prowling around the fields.
Go off now out there by that stump."

Full of wonder and curiosity, I retired to the stump. Tom,
meantime, turned out the mass of nests, and with it completely
covered himself. The pile now resembled an enormous mouse-nest, or
rather a small hay-cock. Pretty soon I heard a low, high-keyed,
squeaking noise, accompanied by a slight rustle inside the nest.
Evidently there were mice in it; and, feeling my character as fox
at stake, I at once trotted forward, then crept up, and, as the
rustling and squeaking continued, made a pounce into the grass--as
I had heard it said that foxes did when mousing. Instantly two spry
brown hands from out the nest clutched me with a most vengeful
grip. As a fox, I struggled tremendously. But Tom overcame me
forthwith, choked me nearly black in the face, then, in dumb show,
knocked my head with a stone.

"D'ye see, now!" he demanded.

I saw.

"But a fox would bite you," I objected.

"Let him bite," said Tom. "I'll resk him when once I get these two
bread-hooks on him. And he can't smell me through the mouse-nests
either."

That night we set ourselves to put the stratagem in operation. With
the dusk we stole out into the field where the stone-heaps were,
and where we had oftenest heard foxes bark. Selecting a nook in the
edge of a clump of raspberry briars which grew about a great
pine-stump, Tom lay down, and I covered him up completely with the
contents of the big basket. He then practiced squeaking and
rustling several times to be sure that all was in good trim. His
squeaks were perfect successes--made by sucking the air sharply
betwixt his teeth.

"Now be off," said Tom, "and don't come poking around, nor get in
sight, till you hear me holler."

Thus exhorted, I went into the barn and established myself at a
crack on the back side, which looked out upon the field where Tom
was ambushed.

Tom, meanwhile, as he afterward told me, waited till it had grown
dark, then began squeaking and rustling at intervals, to draw the
attention of the fox when first he should come out into the
clearing, for foxes have ears so wonderfully acute, that they are
able to hear a mouse squeak twenty rods away, it is said.

An hour passed. Tom must have grown pretty tired of squeaking. It
was a moonless evening, though not very dark. I could see objects
at a little distance through the crack, but could not see so far as
the stump. It got rather dull, watching there; and being amidst
nice cozy straw, I presently went to sleep, quite unintentionally.
I must have slept some time, though it seemed to me but a very few
minutes.

What woke me was a noise--a sharp suppressed yelp. It took me a
moment to understand where I was, and why I was there. A sound of
scuffling and tumbling on the ground at some distance assisted my
wandering wits, and I rushed out of the barn and ran toward the
field. As I ran, two or three dull whacks came to my ear.

"Got him, Tom?" I shouted, rushing up.

Tom was holding and squeezing one of his hands with the other and
shaking it violently. He said not a word, and left me to poke about
and stumble on the limp warm carcass of a large fox that lay near.

"Bite ye?" I exclaimed, after satisfying myself that the fox was
dead.

"Some," said Tom; and that was all I could get from him that night.

We took the fox to the house and lighted a candle. It was the
"silver-gray."

Tom washed his bite in cold water and went to bed. Next morning he
was in a sorry and a very sore plight. His left hand was bitten
through the palm, and badly swollen. There was also a deep bite in
the fleshy part of his right arm, just below the elbow, several
minor nips in his left leg above the knee, and a ragged "grab" in
the chin. These numerous bites, however, were followed by no
serious ill effects.

The next day, Tom told me that the fox had suddenly plunged into
the grass, that he had caught hold of one of its hind legs, and
that they had rolled over and over in the grass together. He owned
to me that when the fox bit him on the chin, he let go of the
brute, and would have given up the fight, but that the fox had then
actually attacked him. "Upon that," said Tom, "I just determined to
have it out with him."

Considering the fact that a fox is a very active, sharp-biting
animal, and that this was an unusually large male, I have always
thought Tom got off very well. I do not think that he ever cared to
make a fox-trap of himself again, however.

We sold the fox-skin in the village, and received thirteen dollars
for it, whereas a common red fox-skin is worth no more than three
dollars.

How, or by what wiles that fox got the turkeys out of the high
butternut, is a secret--one that perished with him. It would seem
that he must either have climbed the tree, or else have practiced
sorcery to make the turkey come down.



THE HORSE THAT AROUSED THE TOWN

By Lillian M. Gask

A wise and just monarch was the good King John. His kingdom
extended over Central Italy, and included the famous town of Atri,
which in days gone by had been a famous harbour on the shores of
the Adriatic. Now the sea had retreated from it, and it lay inland;
no longer the crested waves rolled on its borders, or tossed their
showers of silver spray to meet the vivid turquoise of the sky.

The great desire of good King John was that every man, woman and
child in his dominions should be able to obtain justice without
delay, be they rich or poor. To this end, since he could not
possibly listen to all himself, he hung a bell in one of the city
towers, and issued a proclamation to say that when this was rung a
magistrate would immediately proceed to the public square and
administer justice in his name. The plan worked admirably; both
rich and poor were satisfied, and since they knew that evil-doers
would be quickly punished, and wrongs set right, men hesitated to
defraud or oppress their neighbours, and the great bell pealed less
often as years went on.

In the course of time, however, the bell-rope wore thin, and some
ingenious citizen fastened a wisp of hay to it, that this might
serve as a handle. One day in the height of summer, when the
deserted square was blazing with sunlight, and most of the citizens
were taking their noonday rest, their siesta was disturbed by the
violent pealing of the bell.

"Surely some great injustice has been done," they cried, shaking
off their languor and hastening to the square. To their amazement
they found it empty of all human beings save themselves; no angry
supplicant appealed for justice, but a poor old horse, lame and
half blind, with bones that nearly broke through his skin, was
trying with pathetic eagerness to eat the wisp of hay. In
struggling to do this, he had rung the bell, and the judge,
summoned so hastily for so slight a cause, was stirred to
indignation.

"To whom does this wretched horse belong?" he shouted wrathfully.
"What business has it here?"

"Sir, he belongs to a rich nobleman, who lives in that splendid
palace whose tall towers glisten white above the palm-grove," said
an old man, coming forward with a deep bow. "Time was that he bore
his master to battle, carrying him dauntlessly amid shot and shell,
and more than once saving his life by his courage and fleetness.
When the horse became old and feeble, he was turned adrift, since
his master had no further use for him; and now the poor creature
picks up what food he can in highways and byways."

On hearing this the judge's face grew dark with anger. "Bring his
master before me," he thundered, and when the amazed nobleman
appeared, he questioned him more sternly than he would have done
the meanest peasant.

"Is it true," he demanded, "that you left this, your faithful
servant, to starve, since he could no longer serve you? It is long
since I heard of such gross injustice--are you not ashamed?"

The nobleman hung his head in silence; he had no word to say in his
own defence as with scathing contempt the judge rebuked him, adding
that in future he would neglect the horse at his peril.

"For the rest of his life," he said, "you shall care for the poor
beast as he deserves, so that after his long term of faithful
service he may end his days in peace."

This decision was greeted with loud applause by the town folk, who
gathered in the square.

"Our bell is superior to all others," they said to each other, with
nods and smiles, "for it is the means of gaining justice, not only
for men, but for animals too in their time of need."

And with shouts of triumph they led the old war-horse back to his
stable, knowing that for the future its miserly owner would not
dare to begrudge it the comfort to which it was so justly entitled.



WHAT GINGER TOLD BLACK BEAUTY

By Anna Sewell

One day when Ginger and I were standing alone in the shade, we had
a great deal of talk; she wanted to know all about my bringing up
and breaking in, and I told her.

"Well," said she, "if I had had your bringing up, I might have had
as good a temper as you, but now I don't believe I ever shall."

"Why not?" I said.

"Because it has been all so different with me," she replied. "I
never had any one, horse or man, that was kind to me, or that I
cared to please, for in the first place I was taken from my mother
as soon as I was weaned, and put with a lot of other young colts;
none of them cared for me, and I cared for none of them. There was
no kind master like yours to look after me, and talk to me, and
bring me nice things to eat. The man that had the care of us never
gave me a kind word in my life. I do not mean that he ill-used me,
but he did not care for us one bit further than to see that we had
plenty to eat, and shelter in the winter. A footpath ran through
our field and very often the great boys passing through would fling
stones to make us gallop. I was never hit, but one fine young colt
was badly cut in the face, and I should think it would be a scar
for life. We did not care for them, but of course it made us more
wild, and we settled it in our minds that boys were our enemies. We
had very good fun in the free meadows, galloping up and down and
chasing each other round and round the field; then standing still
under the shade of the trees. But when it came to breaking in, that
was a bad time for me; several men came to catch me, and when at
last they closed me in at one corner of the field, one caught me by
the forelock, another caught me by the nose and held it so tight I
could hardly draw my breath; then another took my under jaw in his
hard hand and wrenched my mouth open, and so by force they got on
the halter and the bar into my mouth; then one dragged me along by
the halter, another flogging behind, and this was the first
experience I had of men's kindness; it was all force. They did not
give me a chance to know what they wanted. I was high bred and had
a great deal of spirit and was very wild, no doubt, and gave them,
I dare say, plenty of trouble, but then it was dreadful to be shut
up in a stall day after day instead of having my liberty, and I
fretted and pined and wanted to get loose. You know yourself it's
bad enough when you have a kind master and plenty of coaxing, but
there was nothing of that sort for me.

"There was one--the old master, Mr. Ryder--who, I think, could soon
have brought me round, and could have done anything with me; but he
had given up all the hard part of the trade to his son and to
another experienced man, and he only came at times to oversee. His
son was a strong, tall, bold man; they called him Samson, and he
used to boast that he had never found a horse that could throw him.
There was no gentleness in him, as there was in his father, but
only hardness, a hard voice, a hard eye, a hard hand; and I felt
from the first that what he wanted was to wear all the spirit out
of me, and just make me into a quiet, humble, obedient piece of
horse-flesh. 'Horse-flesh!' Yes, that is all that he thought
about," and Ginger stamped her foot as if the very thought of him
made her angry. Then she went on:

"If I did not do exactly what he wanted, he would get put out, and
make me run round with that long rein in the training field till he
had tired me out. I think he drank a good deal, and I am quite sure
that the oftener he drank the worse it was for me. One day he had
worked me hard in every way he could, and when I lay down I was
tired, and miserable, and angry; it all seemed so hard. The next
morning he came for me early, and ran me round again for a long
time. I had scarcely had an hour's rest, when he came again for me
with a saddle and bridle and a new kind of bit. I could never quite
tell how it came about; he had only just mounted me on the training
ground, when something I did put him out of temper, and he chucked
me hard with the rein. The new bit was very painful, and I reared
up suddenly, which angered him still more, and he began to flog me.
I felt my whole spirit set against him, and I began to kick, and
plunge, and rear as I had never done before, and we had a regular
fight; for a long time he stuck, to the saddle and punished me
cruelly with his whip and spurs, but my blood was thoroughly up,
and I cared for nothing he could do if only I could get him off. At
last, after a terrible struggle, I threw him off backwards. I heard
him fall heavily on the turf, and, without looking behind me, I
galloped off to the other end of the field; there I turned round
and saw my persecutor slowly rising from the ground and going into
the stable. I stood under an oak tree and watched, but no one came
to catch me. The time went on, and the sun was very hot; the flies
swarmed round me and settled on my bleeding flanks where the spurs
had dug in. I felt hungry, for I had not eaten since the early
morning, but there was not enough grass in that meadow for a goose
to live on. I wanted to lie down and rest, but with the saddle
strapped tightly on, there was no comfort, and there was not a drop
of water to drink. The afternoon wore on, and the sun got low. I
saw the other colts led in, and I knew they were having a good
feed.

"At last, just as the sun went down, I saw the old master come out
with a sieve in his hand. He was a very fine old gentleman with
quite white hair, but his voice was what I should know him by
amongst a thousand. It was not high, nor yet low, but full, and
clear, and kind, and when he gave orders it was so steady and
decided, that every one knew, both horses and men, that he expected
to be obeyed. He came quietly along, now and then shaking the oats
about that he had in the sieve, and speaking cheerfully and gently
to me: 'Come along, lassie, come along, lassie; come along, come
along.' I stood still and let him come up; he held the oats to me,
and I began to eat without fear; his voice took all my fear away.
He stood by, patting and stroking me whilst I was eating, and
seeing the clots of blood on my side he seemed very vexed. 'Poor
lassie! it was a bad business, a bad business!' Then he quietly
took the rein and led me to the stable; just at the door stood
Samson. I laid my ears back and snapped at him. 'Stand back,' said
the master, 'and keep out of her way; you've done a bad day's work
for this filly.' He growled out something about a vicious brute.
'Hark ye,' said the father, 'a bad-tempered man will never make a
good-tempered horse. You've not learned your trade yet, Samson.'
Then he led me into my box, took off the saddle and bridle with his
own hands, and tied me up; then he called for a pail of warm water
and a sponge, took off his coat, and while the stableman held the
pail, he sponged my sides a good while, so tenderly that I was sure
he knew how sore and bruised they were. 'Whoa! my pretty one,' he
said, 'stand still, stand still.' His very voice did me good, and
the bathing was very comfortable. The skin was so broken at the
corners of my mouth that I could not eat the hay; the stalks hurt
me. He looked closely at it, shook his head, and told the man to
fetch a good bran mash and put some meal into it. How good that
mash was! and so soft and healing to my mouth. He stood by all the
time I was eating, stroking me and talking to the man. 'If a
highmettled creature like this,' said he, 'can't be broken in by
fair means, she will never be good for anything.'

"After that he often came to see me, and when my mouth was healed,
the other breaker, Job, they called him, went on training me; he
was steady and thoughtful, and I soon learned what he wanted."



SOME TRUE STORIES OP HORSES AND DONKEYS

By W. H. G. Kingston

The horse becomes the willing servant of man, and when kindly
treated looks upon him as a friend and protector.

I have an interesting story to tell you of a mare which belonged to
Captain I--, an old settler in New Zealand. She and her foal had
been placed in a paddock, between which and her master's residence,
three or four miles away, several high fences intervened. The
paddock itself was surrounded by a still higher fence.

One day, however, as Captain I--was standing with a friend in front
of his house, he was surprised to see the mare come galloping up.
Supposing that the fence of her paddock had been broken down, and
that, pleased at finding herself at liberty, she had leaped the
others, he ordered a servant to take her back. The mare willingly
followed the man; but in a short time was seen galloping up towards
the house in as great a hurry as before. The servant, who arrived
some time afterwards, assured his master that he had put the mare
safely into the paddock. Captain I--told him again to take back the
animal, and to examine the fence more thoroughly, still believing
that it must have been broken down in some part or other, though
the gate might be secure.

Captain I--and his friend then retired into the house, and were
seated at dinner, when the sound of horse's hoofs reached their
ears. The friend, who had on this got up to look out of the window,
saw that it was the mare come back for the third time; and
observing the remarkable manner in which she was running up and
down, apparently trying even to get into the house, exclaimed,
"What can that mare want? I am sure that there is something the
matter." Captain I--on hearing this hurried out to ascertain the
state of the case. No sooner did the mare see him than she began to
frisk about and exhibit the most lively satisfaction; but instead
of stopping to receive the accustomed caress, off she set again of
her own accord towards the paddock, looking back to ascertain
whether her master was following. His friend now joined him, and
the mare, finding that they were keeping close behind her, trotted
on till the gate of the paddock was reached, where she waited for
them. On its being opened, she led them across the field to a deep
ditch on the farther side, when, what was their surprise to find
that her colt had fallen into it, and was struggling on its back
with its legs in the air, utterly unable to extricate itself. In a
few minutes more probably it would have been dead. The mare, it was
evident, finding that the servant did not comprehend her wishes,
had again and again sought her master, in whom she had learned from
past experience to confide. Here was an example of strong maternal
affection eliciting a faculty superior to instinct, which fully
merits the name of reason.

[Illustration: GINGER AND I WERE STANDING ALONE IN THE SHADE
    _From the painting by Maude Scrivener_]

The memory of horses is remarkable. The newsman of a country paper
was in the habit of riding his horse once or twice a week to the
houses of fifty or sixty of his customers, the horse invariably
stopping of his own accord at each house as he reached it.

But the memory of the horse was exhibited in a still more curious
manner. It happened that there were two persons on the route who
took one paper between them, and each claimed the privilege of
having it first on each alternate week. The horse soon became
accustomed to this regulation, and though the parties lived two
miles distant, he stopped once a fortnight at the door of the
half-customer at one place, and once a fortnight at the door of the
half-customer at the other; and never did he forget this
arrangement, which lasted for several years.

I was once travelling in the interior of Portugal with several
companions. My horse had never been in that part of the country
before. We left our inn at daybreak, and proceeded through a
mountainous district to visit some beautiful scenery. On our return
evening was approaching, when I stopped behind my companions to
tighten the girths of my saddle. Believing that there was only one
path to take, I rode slowly on, but shortly reached a spot where I
was in some doubt whether I should go forward or turn off to the
left. I shouted, but heard no voice in reply, nor could I see any
trace of my friends. Darkness was coming rapidly on. My horse
seeming inclined to take the left hand, I thought it best to let
him do so. In a short time the sky became overcast, and there was
no moon. The darkness was excessive. Still my steed stepped boldly
on. So dense became the obscurity, that I could not see his ears;
nor could I, indeed, distinguish my own hand held out at
arms-length. I had no help for it but to place the reins on my
horse's neck and let him go forward.

We had heard of robberies and murders committed; and I knew that
there were steep precipices, down which, had my horse fallen, we
should have been dashed to pieces. Still the firm way in which he
trotted gave me confidence. Hour after hour passed by. The darkness
would, at all events, conceal me from the banditti, if such were in
wait--that was one consolation; but then I could not tell where my
horse might be taking me. It might be far away from where I hoped
to find my companions.

At length I heard a dog bark, and saw a light twinkling far down
beneath me, by which I knew that I was still on the mountain-side.
Thus on my steady steed proceeded, till I found that he was going
along a road, and I fancied I could distinguish the outlines of
trees on either hand. Suddenly he turned on one side, when my hat
was nearly knocked off by striking against the beam of a trellised
porch, covered with vines; and to my joy I found that he had
brought me up to the door of the inn which we had left in the
morning.

My companions, trusting to their human guide, had not arrived,
having taken a longer though safer route. My steed had followed the
direct path over the mountains which we had pursued in the morning.

Another horse of mine, which always appeared a gentle animal, and
which constantly carried a lady, was, during my absence, ridden by
a friend with spurs. On my return, I found that he had on several
occasions attacked his rider, when dismounted, with his fore-feet,
and had once carried off the rim of his hat. From that time forward
he would allow no one to approach him if he saw spurs on his heels;
and I was obliged to blindfold him when mounting and dismounting,
as he on several occasions attacked me as he had done my friend.

A horse was shut up in a paddock near Leeds, in a corner of which
stood a pump with a tub beneath it.

The groom, however, often forgot to fill the tub, the horse having
thus no water to drink. The animal had observed the way in which
water was procured, and one night, when the tub was empty, was seen
to take the pump handle in his mouth, and work it with his head
till he had procured as much water as he required.

A remarkable instance of a horse saving human life occurred some
years ago at the Cape of Good Hope. A storm was raging when a
vessel, dragging her anchors, was driven on the rocks and speedily
dashed to pieces. Many of those on board perished. The remainder
were seen clinging to the wreck, or holding on to the fragments
which were washing to and fro amid the breakers. No boat could put
off. When all hope had gone of saving the unfortunate people, a
settler, somewhat advanced in life, appeared on horseback on the
shore. His horse was a bold and strong animal, and noted for
excelling as a swimmer. The farmer, moved with compassion for the
unfortunate seamen, resolved to attempt saving them. Fixing himself
firmly in the saddle, he pushed into the midst of the breakers. At
first both horse and rider disappeared; but soon they were seen
buffeting the waves, and swimming towards the wreck. Calling two of
the seamen, he told them to hold on by his boots; then turning his
horse's head, he brought them safely to land.

No less than seven times did he repeat this dangerous exploit, thus
saving fourteen lives. For the eighth time he plunged in, when,
encountering a formidable wave, the brave man lost his balance, and
was instantly overwhelmed. The horse swam safely to shore; but his
gallant rider, alas! was no more.

Some horses in the county of Limerick, which were pastured in a
field, broke bounds like a band of unruly schoolboys, and
scrambling through a gap which they had made in a fence, found
themselves in a narrow lane. Along the quiet by-road they galloped
helter-skelter, at full speed, snorting and tossing their manes in
the full enjoyment of their freedom, but greatly to the terror of a
party of children who were playing in the lane. As the horses were
seen tearing wildly along, the children scrambled up the bank into
the hedge, and buried themselves in the bushes, regardless of
thorns,--with the exception of one poor little thing, who, too
small to run, fell down on its face, and lay crying loudly in the
middle of the narrow way.

On swept the horses; but when the leader of the troop saw the
little child lying in his path, he suddenly stopped, and so did the
others behind him. Then stooping his head, he seized the infant's
clothes with his teeth, and carefully lifted it to the side of the
road, laying it gently and quite unhurt on the tender grass.

He and his companions then resumed their gallop in the lane,
unconscious of having performed a remarkable act.

We have no less an authority than Dr. Franklin to prove that
donkeys enjoy music.

The mistress of a chateau in France where he visited had an
excellent voice, and every time she began to sing, a donkey
belonging to the establishment invariably came near the window, and
listened with the greatest attention. One day, during the
performance of a piece of music which apparently pleased it more
than any it had previously heard, the animal, quitting its usual
post outside the window, unceremoniously entered the room, and, to
exhibit its satisfaction, began to bray with all its might.

Donkeys sometimes exert their ingenuity to their own advantage. A
certain ass had his quarters in a shed, in front of which was a
small yard. On one side of the yard was a kitchen garden, separated
from it by a wall, in which was a door fastened by two bolts and a
latch. The owner of the premises one morning, in taking a turn
round his garden, observed the footprints of an ass on the walks
and beds. "Surely some one must have left the door open at night,"
thought the master. He accordingly took care to see that it was
closed.

Again, however, he found that the ass had visited the garden.

The next night, curious to know how this had happened, he watched
from a window overlooking the yard. At first he kept a light
burning near him. The ass, however, remained quietly at his stall.
After a time, to enable him to see the better, he had it removed,
when what was his surprise to see the supposed stupid donkey come
out of the shed, go to the door, and, rearing himself on his
hind-legs, unfasten the upper bolt of the door with his nose. This
done, he next withdrew the lower bolt; then lifted the latch, and
walked into the garden. He was not long engaged in his foraging
expedition, and soon returned with a bunch of carrots in his mouth.
Placing them in his shed, he went back and carefully closed the
door and began at his ease to munch the provender he had so
adroitly got possession of.

The owner, suspecting that people would not believe his story,
invited several of his neighbours to witness the performance of the
ass. Not till the light, however, had been taken away, would the
creature commence his operations, evidently conscious that he was
doing wrong.

A lock was afterwards put on the door, which completely baffled the
ingenuity of the cunning animal.



"OLD MUSTARD": A TALE OF THE WESTERN PIONEERS

By E. W. Frentz

When Grandmother Lane was a little girl her father came in one day
and said, "Wife, it is all settled at last. I have sold the farm.
Next week we will start West. There is a large company going from
here, and we must try to get ready to go with them."

Little Mary, as grandmother was then called, heard the news with
great delight, because she knew it would mean a long, long journey,
lasting months, and carrying them into a new country, where there
was never any cold weather and where great crops could be raised
without much hard work, and there would always be plenty to eat.
Besides, her family was not going alone, but many other families
whom they knew were going at the same time, so that she would have
some of her playmates with her all the way.

It was a wonderful sight when the great day came at last, and the
long wagon-train set out. In all there were more than forty wagons,
some drawn by four or six horses, and some by as many as eight big
oxen. And such strange wagons! They were more like little houses on
wheels, only instead of a roof there was a high frame overhead made
of hoops, and covered with canvas, so it made a sort of tent to
ride in by day, if you wished, and to sleep in at night. And from
these hoops hung all sorts of things--hams and pieces of bacon,
strips of dried pumpkin, pans to cook in, and clothes. Underneath
the big wagon, outside, swung the great kettles, in which the
larger things were cooked, and axes, and ropes and chains for
pulling the wagons out when they got stuck in the mud.

To little Mary it was all new and delightful. The big wagons
squeaked and groaned and swayed from side to side till the hams
hanging from the frame overhead would swing back and forth like the
pendulum of a clock. There were the shouts of the men to the horses
and oxen, the barking of the dogs that ran along the side of the
trail, the sharp cracking of the drivers' whips, and the
_ting-tang_ of the iron kettles swinging against each other.
And always they were passing through places that were new and
seeing things that were fresh and strange.

The wagon of Mr. Harding--that was grandmother's father--was drawn
by four oxen, but of them, known as Jerry, began to show signs of
sickness when they had been on the road a few days. The men gave
him medicine and doctored him all they could, but he seemed to grow
weaker all the time instead of better, and one morning, when they
went to yoke the oxen to the wagon, they found him dead.

For a day or two they went on with only three oxen. Then Mr.
Harding met a trader who was willing to sell him a pet ox that he
called "Old Mustard," to take the place of Jerry.

It was a very funny-looking ox, indeed, not like any that Mary or
anybody in her family had ever seen before. He had a very large,
round head, with shaggy hair matted on top, and on his back was a
large hump. In color he was a dirty yellow all over. That is why
the trader called him Mustard.

"He isn't very pretty," said the trader, "but he is strong and
good-natured, and will pull more than any ox of his size that I
ever saw. Besides, he will get on with less grass and less water.
He is a half-buffalo--he shows that in his huge head and shoulders.
For this reason he will be worth more to you than any scout or
watch-dog; he can smell Indians a mile away, and will fight them on
sight." Mr. Harding did not quite like to buy so strange an animal,
but he must get another ox somewhere, and so he took Old Mustard.

By the end of the first day he was very glad he had done so, for
the funny-looking yellow creature took its place at the tongue of
the cart and pulled steadily and well. And every day after that he
did his work faithfully, and seemed never to be sick or to feel
tired.

By the end of the fourth week the wagon-train had entered a country
where the Indians were known to be on the war-path, and trouble was
expected. They even found the remains of three partly burned
wagons.

Great care was now taken to send scouts ahead during the day and to
prepare the camp for defense at night.

The first thing that was done as soon as the stop was made for the
night was to "park" all the wagons, as they called it. The big
ox-carts were placed in a great circle and chained one to another.
Sometimes the cattle were picketed outside, to graze, with men
armed with guns to watch them, and sometimes they were driven
inside. But always the camp-fires were built in the circle, and
round them the different families gathered to cook and eat their
supper.

One night, when the wagons had been parked and every one had eaten
supper and gone to sleep, Old Mustard began to act very strangely.
At first he tossed his head and blew hard through his nostrils;
then he began to move about uneasily as far as his rope would let
him, and to snort and paw the ground.

When one of the guards went near him he turned upon him a pair of
eyes that were bright green and shiny. At last Mr. Harding happened
to think what the trader had told him.

"Do you suppose it can be that he scents Indians?" he asked one of
the other men.

"It may be," he said. "It is sure that he is excited over
something. Perhaps we had better be on the safe side and wake the
men."

Quietly Mr. Harding went from wagon to wagon, rousing the sleepers.
He had hardly finished when Old Mustard, with a terrible roar,
snapped the rope that held him, dashed to the edge of the circle,
leaped a cart-tongue, and thundered away into the darkness. Almost
instantly there came a scream and then the rushing charge of Indian
riders.

They were met by the men of the party, now all prepared for them
and protected by the circle of wagons. And finding that their
attack had been discovered too soon, the Indians drew off after the
first rush.

By the earliest flush of daylight a searching-party went out from
camp. It came upon poor Old Mustard grazing about, and not far away
lay an Indian trampled into the dust. The Indian was the foremost
of the band that was quietly creeping up on the camp when Old
Mustard had scented them, and not only given warning, but surprised
and killed the leader.



CARLO, THE SOLDIERS' DOG

By General Rush C. Hawkins

The Ninth New York Volunteers was organized in April, 1861, in the
City of New York. Two of the companies were made up of men from
outside the city. C was composed of men from Hoboken and Paterson,
New Jersey, and G marched into the regimental headquarters fully
organized from the town of Fort Lee in that State. With this last
named company came Carlo, the subject of this sketch.

When he joined the regiment, he had passed beyond the period of
puppyhood and was in the full flush of dogly beauty. He was large,
not very large,--would probably have turned the scales at about
fifty pounds. His build was decidedly "stocky," and, as horsey men
would say, his feet were well under him; his chest was broad and
full, back straight, color a warm dark brindle, nose and lips very
black, while he had a broad, full forehead and a wonderful pair of
large, round, soft, dark-brown eyes. Add to this description an air
of supreme, well-bred dignity, and you have an idea of one of the
noblest animals that ever lived.

His origin was obscure; one camp reunion asserted that he was born
on board of a merchant ship while his mother was making a passage
from Calcutta to New York; and another told of a beautiful mastiff
living somewhere in the State of New Jersey that had the honor of
bringing him into the world. It would be very interesting to know
something of the parentage of our hero, but since the facts
surrounding his birth are unattainable, we must content ourselves
with telling a portion of a simple story of a good and noble life.
It may be safe to assert that he was not a native American; if he
had been, he would have provided himself with the regulation
genealogical tree and family coat-of-arms.

During the first part of his term of service, Carlo was very loyal
to his company, marched, messed, and slept with it; but he was not
above picking up, here and there, from the mess tents of the other
companies a tid-bit, now and then, which proved acceptable to a
well-appointed digestion.

His first turn on guard was performed as a member of the detail
from Co. G, and always afterward, in the performance of that duty,
he was most faithful. No matter who else might be late, he was ever
on time when the call for guard mount was sounded, ready to go out
with his own particular squad. At first, he would march back to
company quarters with the old detail, but, as soon as he came to
realize the value and importance of guard duty, he made up his mind
that his place was at the guard tent and on the patrol beat, where
he could be of the greatest service in watching the movements of
the enemy.

In the performance of his duties as a member of the guard he was
very conscientious and ever on the alert. No stray pig, wandering
sheep, or silly calf could pass in front of his part of the line
without being investigated by him. It is possible that his
vigilance in investigating intruding meats was sharpened by the
hope of substantial recognition in the way of a stray rib extracted
from the marauding offender whose ignorance of army customs in time
of war had brought it too near our lines.

As a rule, Carlo, what with his guard duties and other purely
routine items, managed to dispose of the day until dress parade. At
that time he appeared at his best, and became the regimental dog.

No officer or soldier connected with the command more fully
appreciated "The pomp and circumstance of great and glorious war"
than he. As the band marched out to take position previous to
playing for the companies to assemble, he would place himself
alongside the drum-major, and, when the signal for marching was
given, would move off with stately and solemn tread, with head well
up, looking straight to the front. Upon those great occasions, he
fully realized the dignity of his position, and woe betide any
unhappy other dog that happened to get in front of the marching
band. When upon the parade field, he became, next to the colonel,
the commanding officer, and ever regarded himself as the regulator
of the conduct of those careless and frivolous dogs, that go
about the world like street urchins, having no character for
respectability or position in society to sustain.

Of those careless ne'er-do-wells the company had accumulated a very
large following. As a rule, they were harmless and companionable,
and were always on hand ready for a free lunch. It was only on
dress parade that they made themselves over-officious. Each company
was attended to the parade ground by its particular family of
canine companions, and, when all of them had assembled, the second
battalion of the regiment would make itself known by a great
variety of jumpings, caperings, barks of joy, and cries of delight.
To this unseasonable hilarity Carlo seriously objected, and his
actions plainly told the story of his disgust at the conduct of the
silly members of his race. He usually remained a passive observer
until the exercise in the manual of arms, at which particular
period in the ceremonies, the caperings and the barkings would
become quite unendurable. Our hero would then assume the character
of a preserver of the peace. He would make for the nearest group of
revellers, and, in as many seconds, give a half dozen or more of
them vigorous shakes, which would set them to howling, and warn the
others of the thoughtless tribe of an impending danger. Immediately
the offenders would all scamper to another part of the field, and
remain quiet until the dress parade was over. This duty was
self-imposed and faithfully performed upon many occasions.

After the parade was dismissed Carlo would march back to quarters
with his own company, where he would remain until the last daily
distributions of rations, whereupon, after having disposed of his
share, he would start out upon a tour of regimental inspection,
making friendly calls at various company quarters and by taps
turning up at the headquarters of the guard. His duties ended for
the day, he would enjoy his well-earned rest until reveille, unless
some event of an unusual nature, occurring during the night,
disturbed his repose and demanded his attention.

During the first year of his service in the field, Carlo was very
fortunate. He had shared in all the transportations by water, in
all the marchings, skirmishes, and battles, without receiving a
scratch or having a day's illness. But his good fortune was soon to
end, for it was ordained that, like other brave defenders, he was
to suffer in the great cause for which all were risking their
lives.

The morning of April 18, 1862, my brigade, then stationed at
Roanoke Island, embarked upon the steamer _Ocean Wave_ for an
expedition up the Elizabeth River, the object of which was to
destroy the locks of the Dismal Swamp canal in order to prevent
several imaginary iron-clads from getting into Albemarle Sound.

Among the first to embark was the ever ready and faithful Carlo,
and the next morning, when his companions disembarked near
Elizabeth City, he was one of the first to land, and, during the
whole of the long and dreary march of thirty miles to Camden Court
House, lasting from three o'clock in the morning until one in the
afternoon, he was ever on the alert, but keeping close to his
regiment. The field of battle was reached; the engagement, in which
his command met with a great loss, commenced and ended, and, when
the particulars of the disaster were inventoried, it was
ascertained that a Confederate bullet had taken the rudimentary
claw from Carlo's left fore-leg. This was his first wound, and he
bore it like a hero without a whine or even a limp. A private of
Co. G, who first noticed the wound, exclaimed: "Ah, Carlo, what a
pity you are not an officer! If you were, the loss of that claw
would give you sixty days' leave and a brigadier general's
commission at the end of it." That was about the time that
generals' commissions had become very plentiful in the Department
of North Carolina.

The command re-embarked, and reached Roanoke Island the morning
after the engagement, in time for the regulation "Hospital or Sick
Call," which that day brought together an unusual number of
patients, and among them Carlo, who was asked to join the waiting
line by one of the wounded men. When his turn came to be inspected
by the attending surgeon, he was told to hold up the wounded leg,
which he readily did, and then followed the washing, the
application of simple cerate, and the bandaging, with a
considerable show of interest and probable satisfaction.

Thereafter, there was no occasion to ask him to attend the
surgeon's inspection. Each morning, as soon as the bugle call was
sounded, he would take his place in line with the other patients,
advance in his turn, and receive the usual treatment. This habit
continued until the wound was healed.

Always, after this, to every friendly greeting, he would respond by
holding up the wounded leg for inspection, and he acted as though
he thought that everybody was interested in the honorable scar that
told the story of patriotic duty faithfully performed.

Later on, for some reason known to himself, Carlo transferred his
special allegiance to Co. K. and maintained close connection with
that company until the end of his term of service. He was regarded
by its members as a member of the company mess, and was treated as
one of them. But, notwithstanding his special attachments, there
can be no reasonable doubt about his having considered himself a
member of the regiment, clothed with certain powers and
responsibilities. At the end of his term he was fitted with a
uniform--trousers, jacket, and fez, and, thus dressed, he marched
up Broadway, immediately behind the band. He was soon after
mustered out of the service, and received an honorable discharge,
not signed with written characters, but attested by the good-will
of every member of the regiment.



A BRAVE DOG

By Sir Samuel W. Baker

When I was a boy, my grandfather frequently told a story concerning
a dog which he knew, as a more than ordinary example of the
fidelity so frequently exhibited by the race. This animal was a
mastiff that belonged to an intimate friend, to whom it was a
constant companion. It was an enormous specimen of that well-known
breed, which is not generally celebrated for any peculiar
intelligence, but is chiefly remarkable for size and strength. This
dog had been brought up by its master from puppyhood, and as the
proprietor was a single man, there had been no division of
affection, as there would have been had the dog belonged to a
family of several members. Turk regarded nobody but his owner. (I
shall now honour Turk by the masculine gender.)

Whenever Mr. Prideaux went out for a walk, Turk was sure to be near
his heels. Street dogs would bark and snarl at the giant as his
massive form attracted their attention, but Turk seldom
condescended to notice such vulgar demonstrations; he was a
noble-looking creature, somewhat resembling a small lioness; but
although he was gentle and quiet in disposition, he had upon
several occasions been provoked beyond endurance, and his attack
had been nearly always fatal to his assailants. He slept at night
outside his master's door, and no sentry could be more alert upon
his watch than the faithful dog, who had apparently only one
ambition--to protect, and to accompany his owner.

Mr. Prideaux had a dinner-party. He never invited ladies, but
simply entertained his friends as a bachelor; his dinners were but
secondary to the quality of his guests, however, who were always
men of reputation either in the literary world, or in the modern
annals of society. The dog Turk was invariably present, and usually
stretched his huge form upon the hearth-rug.

It was a cold night in winter, when Mr. Prideaux's friends were
talking after dinner, that the conversation turned upon the subject
of dogs. Almost every person had an anecdote to relate, and my own
grandfather being present, had no doubt added his mite to the
collection, when Turk suddenly awoke from a sound sleep, and having
stretched himself until he appeared to be awake to the situation,
walked up to his master's side, and rested his large head upon the
table.

"Ha ha, Turk!" exclaimed Mr. Prideaux, "you must have heard our
arguments about the dogs, so you have put in an appearance."

"And a magnificent specimen he is!" remarked my grandfather; "but
although a mastiff is the largest and most imposing of the race, I
do not think it is as sensible as many others."

"As a rule you are right," replied his master, "because they are
generally chained up as watch-dogs, and have not the intimate
association with human beings which is so great an advantage to
house-dogs; but Turk has been my constant companion from the first
month of his existence, and his intelligence is very remarkable. He
understands most things that I say, if they are connected with
himself; he will often lie upon the rug with his large eyes fixed
upon me as though searching my inward thoughts, and he will
frequently be aware instinctively that I wish to go out; upon such
times he will fetch my hat, cane, or gloves, whichever may be at
hand, and wait for me at the front door. He will take a letter or
any other token to several houses of my acquaintance, and wait for
a reply; and he can perform a variety of actions that would imply a
share of reason seldom possessed by other dogs."

A smile of incredulity upon several faces was at once perceived by
Mr. Prideaux, who immediately took a guinea from his pocket, and
addressed his dog. "Here, Turk! they won't believe in you! ... take
this guinea to No.--,--Street, to Mr.--, and bring me a receipt."

The dog wagged his huge tail with evident pleasure, and the guinea
having been placed in his mouth, he hastened towards the door; this
being opened, he was admitted through the front entrance to the
street. It was a miserable night; the wind was blowing the sleet
and rain against the windows; the gutters were running with muddy
water, and the weather was exactly that which is expressed by the
common term, "not fit to turn a dog out in;" nevertheless, Turk had
started upon his mission in the howling gale and darkness, while
the front door was once more closed against the blast.

The party were comfortably seated around the fire, and much
interested in the success or failure of the dog's adventure.

"How long will it be before we may expect Turk's return?" inquired
an incredulous guest.

"The house to which I have sent him is about a mile and a half
distant, therefore if there is no delay when he barks for admission
at the door, and my friend is not absent from home, he should
return in about three-quarters of an hour with an acknowledgment.
If, on the other hand, he cannot gain admission, he may wait for
any length of time," replied his master.

Bets were exchanged among the company--some supported the dog's
chances of success, while others were against him.

The evening wore away; the allotted time was exceeded, and a whole
hour had passed, but no dog had returned. Fresh bets were made, but
the odds were against the dog. His master was still hopeful....
"I must tell you," said Mr. Prideaux, "that Turk frequently
carries notes for me, and as he knows the house well, he certainly
will not make a mistake; perhaps my friend may be dining out,
in which case Turk will probably wait for a longer time"....
Two hours passed ... the storm was raging. Mr. Prideaux
himself went to the front door, which flew open before a fierce
gust the instant that the lock was turned. The clouds were
rushing past a moon but faintly visible at short intervals,
and the gutters were clogged with masses of half-melted snow.
"Poor Turk!" muttered his master, "this is indeed a wretched night
for you.... Perhaps they have kept you in the warm kitchen,
and will not allow you to return in such fearful weather."

When Mr. Prideaux returned to his guests he could not conceal his
disappointment. "Ha!" exclaimed one who had betted against the dog,
"I never doubted his sagacity. With a guinea in his mouth, he has
probably gone into some house of entertainment where dogs are
supplied with dinner and a warm bed, instead of shivering in a
winter's gale!"

Jokes were made by the winners of bets at the absent dog's expense,
but his master was anxious and annoyed. The various bets were paid
by the losers, and poor Turk's reputation had suffered severely....
It was long past midnight: the guests were departed, the storm
was raging, and violent gusts occasionally shook the house....
Mr. Prideaux was alone in his study, and he poked the fire until it
blazed and roared up the chimney....

"What can have become of that dog?" exclaimed his master to himself,
now really anxious; "I hope they kept him; ... most likely they
would not send him back upon such a dreadful night."

Mr. Prideaux's study was close to the front door, and his acute
attention was suddenly directed to a violent shaking and
scratching, accompanied by a prolonged whine. In an instant he ran
into the hall, and unlocked the entrance door.... A mass of
filth and mud entered.... This was Turk!

The dog seemed dreadfully fatigued, and was shivering with wet and
cold. His usually clean coat was thick with mire, as though he had
been dragged through deep mud. He wagged his tail when he heard his
master's voice, but appeared dejected and ill.

Mr. Prideaux had rung the bell, and the servants, who were equally
interested as their master in Turk's failure to perform his
mission, had attended the summons. The dog was taken downstairs,
and immediately placed in a large tub of hot water, in which he was
accustomed to be bathed. It was now discovered that in addition to
mud and dirt, which almost concealed his coat, he was besmeared
with blood!

Mr. Prideaux himself sponged his favourite with hot soap and water,
and, to his astonishment, he perceived wounds of a serious nature:
the dog's throat was badly torn, his back and breast were deeply
bitten, and there could be no doubt that he had been worried by a
pack of dogs. This was a strange occurrence, that Turk should be
discomfited!

He was now washed clean, and was being rubbed dry with a thick
towel while he stood upon a blanket before the kitchen fire....
"Why, Turk, old boy, what has been the matter? Tell us all about
it, poor old man!" exclaimed his master.

The dog was now thoroughly warmed, and he panted with the heat of
the kitchen fire; he opened his mouth, ... _and the guinea which
he had received in trust dropped on the kitchen floor_!...

"There is some mystery in this," said Mr. Prideaux, "which I
will endeavour to discover to-morrow.... He has been set upon by
strange dogs, and rather than lose the guinea, he has allowed
himself to be half killed without once opening his mouth in
self-defence! Poor Turk!" continued his master, "you must have lost
your way, old man, in the darkness and storm; most likely confused
after the unequal fight. What an example you have given us wretched
humans in being steadfast to a trust!"

Turk was wonderfully better after his warm bath. He lapped up a
large bowl of good thick soup mixed with bread, and in half an hour
was comfortably asleep upon his thick rug by his master's bedroom
door....

Upon the following morning the storm had cleared away, and a
bright sky had succeeded to the gloom of the preceding night.

Immediately after breakfast, Mr. Prideaux, accompanied by his dog
(who was, although rather stiff, not much the worse for the rough
treatment he had received), started for a walk towards the house to
which he had directed Turk upon the previous evening. He was
anxious to discover whether his friend had been absent, as he
concluded that the dog might have been waiting for admittance, and
had been perhaps attacked by some dogs belonging to the house, or
its neighbours'.

The master and Turk had walked for nearly a mile, and had just
turned the corner of a street when, as they passed a butcher's shop
upon the right hand, a large brindled mastiff rushed from the
shop-door, and flew at Turk with unprovoked ferocity.

"Call your dog off!" shouted Mr. Prideaux to the butcher, who
surveyed the attack with impudent satisfaction.... "Call him
off, or my dog will kill him!" continued Mr. Prideaux.

The usually docile Turk had rushed to meet his assailant with a
fury that was extraordinary. With a growl like that of a lion, he
quickly seized his antagonist by the throat; rearing upon his hind
legs, he exerted his tremendous strength, and in a fierce struggle
of only a few seconds, he threw the brindled dog upon its back. It
was in vain that Mr. Prideaux endeavoured to call him off, the rage
of his favourite was quite ungovernable; he never for an instant
relaxed his hold, but with the strength of a wild beast of prey,
Turk shook the head of the butcher's dog to the right and left
until it struck each time heavily against the pavement ... The
butcher attempted to interfere, and lashed him with a huge whip.

"Stand clear! fair play! don't you strike my dog!" shouted Mr.
Prideaux. "Your dog was the first to attack!"

In reply to the whip, Turk had redoubled his fury, and, without
relinquishing his hold, he had now dragged the butcher's dog off
the pavement, and occasionally shaking the body as he pulled the
unresisting mass along the gutter, he drew it into the middle of
the street.

A large crowd had collected, which completely stopped the
thoroughfare. There were no police in those days, but only
watchmen, who were few and far between; even had they been present,
it is probable they would have joined in the amusement of a
dog-fight, which in that age of brutality was considered to be
sport....

"Fair play!" shouted the bystanders.... "Let 'em have it out!"
cried others, as they formed a circle around the dogs.... In
the meantime, Mr. Prideaux had seized Turk by his collar, while the
butcher was endeavouring to release the remains of his dog from the
infuriated and deadly grip....

At length Mr. Prideaux's voice and action appeared for a moment
to create a calm, and, snatching the opportunity, he, with the
assistance of a person in the crowd, held back his dog, as the
carcass of the butcher's dog was dragged away by the lately
insolent owner.... The dog was dead!

Turk's flanks were heaving with the intense exertion and excitement
of the fight, and he strained to escape from his master's hold to
once more attack the lifeless body of his late antagonist....
At length, by kind words and the caress of the well-known hand, his
fury was calmed down....

"Well, that's the most curious adventure I've ever had with a dog!"
exclaimed the butcher, who was now completely crestfallen....
"Why, that's the very dog! he is so--that's the very dog who came
by my shop late last night in the howling storm, and my dog Tiger
went at him and towzled him up completely. I never saw such a
cowardly cur; he wouldn't show any fight, although he was pretty
near as big as a costermonger's donkey; and there my dog Tiger
nearly eat half of him, and dragged the other half about the
gutter, till he looked more like an old door-mat than a dog; and I
thought he must have killed him ... and here he comes out as fresh
as paint to-day, and kills old Tiger clean off as though he'd been
only a biggish cat!"

"What do you say?" asked Mr. Prideaux ... "Was it your dog that
worried my poor dog last night, when he was upon a message of
trust? ... My friend, I thank you for this communication, but let
me inform you of the fact that my dog had _a guinea in his
mouth_ to carry to my friend, and rather than drop it he allowed
himself to be half killed by your savage Tiger. To-day he has
proved his courage, and your dog has discovered his mistake. This
is the guinea that he dropped from his mouth when he returned to me
after midnight, beaten and distressed!" said Mr. Prideaux, much
excited. "Here, Turk, old boy, take the guinea again, and come
along with me! you have had your revenge, and have given us all a
lesson." His master gave him the guinea in his mouth, and they
continued their walk.... It appeared, upon Mr. Prideaux's
arrival at his friend's house, that Turk had never been there;
probably after his defeat he had become so confused that he lost
his way in the heavy storm, and had at length regained the road
home some time after midnight, in the deplorable condition already
described.



UNCLE DICK'S ROLF

By Georgiana M. Craik

"I had been riding for five or six miles one pleasant afternoon. It
was a delicious afternoon, like the afternoon of an English summer
day. You always imagine it hotter out in Africa by a good deal than
it is in England, don't you? Well, so it is, in a general way, a
vast deal hotter; but every now and then, after the rains have
fallen and the wind comes blowing from the sea, we get a day as
much like one of our own best summer days as you ever felt
anywhere. This afternoon was just like an English summer afternoon,
with the fresh sweet breeze rustling amongst the green leaves, and
the great bright sea stretching out all blue and golden, and
meeting the blue sky miles and miles away.

"It wasn't very hot, but it was just hot enough to make the thought
of a swim delicious; so after I had been riding leisurely along for
some little time, shooting a bird or two as I went,--for I wanted
some bright feathers to send home to a little cousin that I had in
England,--I alighted from my horse, and, letting him loose to
graze, lay down for a quarter of an hour to cool myself, and then
began to make ready for my plunge.

"I was standing on a little ledge of cliff, some six or seven feet
above the sea. It was high tide, and the water at my feet was about
a fathom deep. 'I shall have a delightful swim,' thought to myself,
as I threw off my coat; and as just at that moment Rolf in a very
excited way flung himself upon me, evidently understanding the
meaning of the proceeding, and, as I thought, anxious to show his
sympathy with it, I repeated the remark aloud. 'Yes, we'll have a
delightful swim, you and I together,' I said. 'A grand swim, my old
lad'; and I clapped his back as I spoke, and encouraged him, as I
was in the habit of doing, to express his feelings without reserve.
But, rather to my surprise, instead of wagging his tail, and
wrinkling his nose, and performing any of his usual antics, the
creature only lifted up his face and began to whine. He had lain,
for the quarter of an hour while I had been resting, at the edge of
the little cliff, with his head dropped over it; but whether he had
been taking a sleep in that position, or had been amusing himself
by watching the waves, was more than I knew. He was a capital one
for sleeping even then, and generally made a point of snatching a
doze at every convenient opportunity; so I had naturally troubled
my head very little about him, taking it for granted that he was at
his usual occupation. But, whether he had been asleep before or
not, at any rate he was wide awake now, and, as it seemed to me, in
a very odd humor indeed.

"'What's the matter, old fellow?' I said to him, when he set up
this dismal howl. 'Don't you want to have a swim? Well, you needn't
unless you like, only _I_ mean to have one; so down with you,
and let me get my clothes off.' But, instead of getting down, the
creature began to conduct himself in the most incomprehensible way,
first seizing me by the trousers with his teeth and pulling me to
the edge of the rock, as if he wanted me to plunge in dressed as I
was; then catching me again and dragging me back, much as though I
was a big rat that he was trying to worry; and this pantomime, I
declare, he went through three separate times, barking and whining
all the while, till I began to think he was going out of his mind.

"Well, God forgive me! but at last I got into a passion with the
beast. I couldn't conceive what he meant. For two or three minutes
I tried to pacify him, and as long as I took no more steps to get
my clothes off he was willing to be pacified; but the instant I
fell to undressing myself again he was on me once more, pulling me
this way and that, hanging on my arms, slobbering over me, howling
with his mouth up in the air. And so at last I lost my temper, and
I snatched up my gun and struck him with the butt-end of it. My
poor Rolf!" said Uncle Pick, all at once, with a falter in his
voice; and he stopped abruptly, and stooped down and laid his hand
on the great black head.

"He was quieter after I had struck him," said Uncle Dick, after a
little pause. "For a few moments he lay quite still at my feet, and
I had begun to think that his crazy fit was over, and that he was
going to give me no more trouble, when all at once, just as I had
got ready to jump into the water, the creature sprang to his feet
and flung himself upon me again. He threw himself with all his
might upon my breast and drove me backwards, howling So wildly that
many a time since, boys, I have thought I must have been no better
than a blind, perverse fool, not to have guessed what the trouble
was; but the fact is, I was a conceited young fellow (as most young
fellows are), and because I imagined the poor beast was trying for
some reason of his own to get his own way, I thought it was my
business to teach him that he was not to get his own way, but that
I was to get mine; and so I beat him down somehow,--I don't like to
think of it now; I struck him again three or four times with the
end of my gun, till at last I got myself freed from him.

"He gave a cry when he fell back. I call it a cry, for it was more
like something human than a dog's howl,--something so wild and
pathetic that, angry as I was, it startled me, and I almost think,
if time enough had been given me, I would have made some last
attempt then to understand what the creature meant; but I had no
time after that. I was standing a few feet in from the water, and
as soon as I had shaken him off he went to the edge of the bit of
cliff, and stood there for a moment till I came up to him, and
then--just as in another second I should have jumped into the
sea--my brave dog, my noble dog, gave one last whine and one look
into my face, and took the leap before me. And then, boys, in
another instant I saw what he had meant. He had scarcely touched
the water when I saw a crocodile slip like lightning from a sunny
ledge of the cliff, and grip him by the hinder legs.

"You know that I had my gun close at hand, and in the whole course
of my life I never was so glad to have my gun beside me. It was
loaded, too, and a revolver. I caught it up, and fired into the
water. I fired three times, and two of the shots went into the
brute's head. One missed him, and the first seemed not to harm him
much, but the third hit him in some vital place, I hope,--some
sensitive place, at any rate, for the hideous jaws started wide.
Then, with my gun in my hand still, I began with all my might to
shout out, 'Rolf!" I couldn't leave my post, for the brute, though
he had let Rolf go, and had dived for a moment, might make another
spring, and I didn't dare to take my eyes off the spot where he had
gone down; but I called to my wounded beast with all my might, and
when he had struggled through the water and gained a moment's hold
of the rock, I jumped down and caught him, and somehow--I don't
know how--half carried and half dragged him up the little bit of
steep ascent, till we were safe on the top,--on the dry land again.
And then upon my word, I don't know what I did next, only I think,
as I looked at my darling's poor crushed limbs, with the blood
oozing from them, and heard his choking gasps for breath--I--I
forgot for a moment or two that I was a man at all, and burst out
crying like a child.

"Boys, you don't know what it is to feel that a living creature has
tried to give up his life for you, even though the creature is only
a soulless dog. Do you think I had another friend in the world who
would have done what Rolf had done for me? If I had, I did not know
it. And then when I thought that it was while he had been trying to
save my life that I had taken up my gun and struck him! There are
some things, my lads, that a man does without meaning any harm by
them, which yet, when he sees them by the light of after events, he
can never bear to look back upon without a sort of agony; and those
blows I gave to Rolf are of that sort. _He_ forgave them,--my
noble dog; but I have never forgiven myself for them to this hour.
When I saw him lying before me, with his blood trickling out upon
the sand, I think I would have given my right hand to save his
life. And well I might, too, for he had done ten times more than
that to save mine.

"He licked the tears off my cheeks, my poor old fellow; I remember
that. We looked a strange pair, I dare say, as we lay on the ground
together, with our heads side by side. It's a noble old head still,
isn't it, boys? (I don't mean mine, but this big one down here. All
right, Rolf! We're only talking of your beauty, my lad.) It's as
grand a head as ever a dog had. I had his picture taken after I
came home. I've had him painted more than once, but somehow I don't
think the painters have ever seen quite into the bottom of his
heart. At least, I fancy that if I were a painter I could make
something better of him than any of them have done yet. Perhaps
it's only a notion of mine, but, to tell the truth, I've only a
dozen times or so in my life seen a painting of a grand dog that
looks quite right. But I'm wandering from my story, though, indeed,
my story is almost at an end.

"When I had come to my senses a little, I had to try to get my poor
Rolf moved. We were a long way from any house, and the creature
couldn't walk a step. I tore up my shirt, and bound his wounds as
well as I could, and then I got my clothes on, and called to my
horse, and in some way, as gently as I could,--though it was no
easy thing to do it,--I got him and myself together upon the
horse's back, and we began our ride. There was a village about four
or five miles off, and I made for that. It was a long, hard jolt
for a poor fellow with both his hindlegs broken, but he bore it as
patiently as if he had been a Christian. I never spoke to him but,
panting as he was, he was ready to lick my hands and look lovingly
up into my face. I've wondered since, many a time, what he could
have thought about it all; and the only thing I am sure of is that
he never thought much of the thing that he himself had done. That
seemed, I know, all natural and simple to him; I don't believe that
he has ever understood to this day what anybody wondered at in it,
or made a hero of him for. For the noblest people are the people
who are noble without knowing it; and the same rule, I fancy, holds
good, too, for dogs.

"I got him to a resting-place at last, after a weary ride, and then
I had his wounds dressed; but it was weeks before he could stand
upon his feet again, and when at last he began to walk he limped,
and he has gone on limping ever since. The bone of one leg was so
crushed that it couldn't be set properly, and so that limb is
shorter than the other three. _He_ doesn't mind it much, I
dare say,--I don't think he ever did,--but it has been a pathetic
lameness to me, boys. It's all an old story now, you know," said
Uncle Dick, abruptly, "but it's one of those things that a man
doesn't forget, and that it would be a shame to him if he ever
_could_ forget as long as his life lasts."

Uncle Dick stooped down again as he ceased to speak, and Rolf,
disturbed by the silence, raised his head to look about him. As his
master had said, it was a grand old head still, though the eyes
were growing dim now with age. Uncle Dick laid his hand upon it,
and the bushy tail began to wag. It had wagged at the touch of that
hand for many a long day.

"We've been together for fifteen years. He's getting old now," said
Uncle Dick.



SCRAP

By Lucia Chamberlain

At the gray end of the afternoon the regiment of twelve companies
went through Monterey on its way to the summer camp, a mile out on
the salt-meadows; and it was here that Scrap joined it.

He did not tag at the heels of the boys who tagged the last
company, or rush out with the other dogs who barked at the band;
but he appeared somehow independent of any surroundings, and
marched, ears alert, stump tail erect, one foot in front of the
tall first lieutenant who walked on the wing of Company A.

The lieutenant was self-conscious and so fresh to the service that
his shoulder-straps hurt him. He failed to see Scrap, who was very
small and very yellow, until, in quickening step, he stumbled over
him and all but measured his long length. He aimed an accurate kick
that sent Scrap flying, surprised but not vindictive, to the side
lines, where he considered, his head cocked. With the scratched ear
pricked and the bitten ear flat, he passed the regiment in review
until Company K, with old Muldoon, sergeant on the flank, came by.

As lean, as mongrel, as tough, and as scarred as Scrap, he carried
his wiry body with a devil-may-care assurance, in which Scrap may
have recognized a kindred spirit. He decided in a flash. He made a
dart and fell in abreast the sergeant of Company K. Muldoon saw and
growled at him.

"Gr-r-r-r!" said Scrap, not ill-naturedly, and fell back a pace.
But he did not slink. He had the secret of success. He kept as
close as he could and yet escape Muldoon's boot. With his head
high, ears stiff, tail up, he stepped out to the music.

Muldoon looked back with a threat that sent Scrap retreating, heels
over ears. The sergeant was satisfied that the dog had gone; but
when camp was reached and ranks were broken he found himself
confronted by a disreputable yellow cur with a ragged ear cocked
over his nose.

"Well, I'm domned!" said Muldoon. His heart, probably the toughest
thing about him, was touched by this fearless persistence.

"Ar-ren't ye afraid o' nothin', ye little scrap?" he said. Scrap,
answering the first name he had ever known, barked shrilly.

"What's that dog doing here?" said the tall lieutenant of Company
A, disapprovingly.

"I'm afther kickin' him out, sor," explained Muldoon, and, upon the
lieutenant's departure, was seen retreating in the direction of the
cook-tent, with the meager and expectant Scrap inconspicuously at
his heels.

He went to sleep at taps in Muldoon's tent, curled up inside
Muldoon's cartridge-belt; but at reveille the next morning the
sergeant missed him. Between drill and drill Muldoon sought
diligently, with insinuations as to the character of dog-stealers
that were near to precipitating personal conflict. He found the
stray finally, in Company B street, leaping for bones amid the
applause of the habitants.

Arraigned collectively as thieves, Company B declared that the dog
had strayed in and remained only because he could not be kicked
out. But their pride in the height of his leaps was too evidently
the pride of possession; and Muldoon, after vain attempts to catch
the excited Scrap, who was eager only for bones, retired with
threats of some vague disaster to befall Company B the next day if
_his_ dog were not returned.

The responsibility, with its consequences, was taken out of Company
B's hands by Scrap's departure from their lines immediately after
supper. He was not seen to go. He slid away silently, among the
broken shadows of the tents. Company B reviled Muldoon. Scrap spent
the night in a bugler's cape, among a wilderness of brasses, and
reappeared the next morning at guard mount, deftly following the
stately maneuvers of the band.

"Talk about a dorg's gratitude!" said the sergeant of Company B,
bitterly, remembering Scrap's entertainment of the previous
evening.

"I'm on to his game!" muttered old Muldoon. "Don't ye see, ye
fool, he don't belong to any _wan_ of us. He belongs to the
crowd--to the regiment. That's what he's tryin' to show us. He's
what that Frinchman down in F calls a--a mascot; and, be jabers, he
moves like a soldier!"

The regiment's enthusiasm for Scrap, as voiced by Muldoon,
was not extended to the commanding officer, who felt that the
impressiveness of guard mount was detracted from by Scrap's
deployments. Also the tall lieutenant of Company A disliked the
sensation of being accompanied in his social excursions among
ladies who had driven out to band practise by a lawless yellow pup
with a bitten ear. The lieutenant, good fellow at bottom, was yet a
bit of a snob, and he would have preferred the colonel's foolish
Newfoundland to the spirited but unregenerate Scrap.

But the privates and "non-coms" judged by the spirit, and bid for
the favor of their favorite, and lost money at canteen on the next
company to be distinguished as Scrap's temporary entertainers. He
was cordial, even demonstrative, but royally impartial, devoting a
day to a company with a method that was military. He had personal
friends,--Muldoon for one, the cook for another,--but there was no
man in the regiment who could expect Scrap to run to his whistle.

Yet independent as he was of individuals, he obeyed regimental
regulations like a soldier. He learned the guns and the bugles,
what actions were signified by certain sounds. He was up in the
morning with the roll of the drums. He was with every drill that
was informal enough not to require the presence of the commanding
officer, and during dress parade languished, lamenting, in
Muldoon's tent. Barking furiously, he was the most enthusiastic
spectator of target practise. He learned to find the straying balls
when the regimental nine practised during "release," and betrayed a
frantic desire to "retrieve" the shot that went crashing seaward
from the sullen-mouthed cannon on the shore. More than once he made
one of the company that crossed the lines at an unlawful hour to
spend a night among the crooked ways of Monterey.

The regiment was tiresome with tales of his tricks. The height of
his highest leap was registered in the mess, and the number of rats
that had died in his teeth were an ever increasing score in the
canteen. He was fairly aquiver with the mere excitement and
curiosity of living. There was no spot in the camp too secure or
too sacred for Scrap to penetrate. His invasions were without
impertinence; but the regiment was his, and he deposited dead rats
in the lieutenant's shoes as casually as he concealed bones in the
French horn; and slumbered in the major's hat-box with the same
equanimity with which he slept in Muldoon's jacket.

The major evicted Scrap violently, but, being a good-natured man,
said nothing to the colonel, who was not. But it happened, only a
day after the episode of the hat-box, that the colonel entered his
quarters to find the yellow mascot, fresh from a plunge in the surf
and a roll in the dirt, reposing on his overcoat.

To say that the colonel was angry would be weak; but, overwhelmed
as he was, he managed to find words and deeds. Scrap fled with a
sharp yelp as a boot-tree caught him just above the tail.

His exit did not fail to attract attention in the company street.
The men were uneasy, for the colonel was noticeably a man of action
as well as of temper. Their premonitions were fulfilled when at
assembly the next morning, an official announcement was read to the
attentive regiment. The colonel, who was a strategist as well as a
fighter, had considered the matter more calmly overnight. He was
annoyed by the multiplicity of Scrap's appearances at times and
places where he was officially a nuisance. He was more than annoyed
by the local paper's recent reference to "our crack yellow-dog
regiment." But he knew the strength of regimental sentiment
concerning Scrap and the military superstition of the mascot, and
he did not want to harrow the feelings of the "summer camp" by
detailing a firing squad. Therefore he left a loop-hole for Scrap's
escape alive. The announcement read: "All dogs found in camp not
wearing collars will be shot, by order of the commanding officer."

Now there were but two dogs in camp, and the colonel's wore a
collar. The regiment heard the order with consternation.

"That'll fix it," said the colonel, comfortably.

"Suppose some one gets a collar?" suggested the major, with a hint
of hopefulness in his voice.

"I know my regiment," said the colonel. "There isn't enough money
in it three days before pay day to buy a button. They'll send him
out to-night."

Immediately after drill there was a council of war in Muldoon's
tent, Muldoon holding Scrap between his knees. Scrap's scratched
ear, which habitually stood cocked, flopped forlornly; his stump
tail drooped dismally. The atmosphere of anxiety oppressed his
sensitive spirit. He desired to play, and Muldoon only sat and
rolled his argumentative tongue. From this conference those who
had been present went about the business of the day with a
preternatural gloom that gradually permeated the regiment. The
business of the day was varied, since the next day was to be a
field day, with a review in the morning and cavalry maneuvers in
the afternoon.

All day Scrap was conspicuous in every quarter of the camp, but at
supper-time the lieutenant of Company A noted his absence from his
habitual place at the left of Muldoon in the men's mess-tent. The
lieutenant was annoyed by his own anxiety.

"Of course they'll get him out, sir?" he said to the major.

"Of course," the major assented, with more confidence than he felt.
The colonel was fairly irritable in his uncertainty over it.

Next morning the sentries, who had been most strictly enjoined to
vigilant observation, reported that no one had left camp that
night, though a man on beat four must have failed in an
extraordinary way to see a private crossing his line six feet in
front of him.

The muster failed to produce any rag-eared, stub-tailed,
eager-eyed, collarless yellow cub. Nor did the mess-call raise his
shrill bark in the vicinity of the cook's tent. The lieutenant felt
disappointed.

He thought that the regiment should at least have made some sort of
demonstration in Scrap's defense. It seemed a poor return for such
confidence and loyalty to be hustled out of the way on an official
threat.

It seemed to him the regiment was infernally light-hearted, as,
pipe-clay white and nickel bright in the morning sun, it swung out
of camp for the parade-ground, where the dog-carts and runabouts
and automobiles were gathering from Del Monte and the cottages
along the shore.

The sight of the twelve companies moving across the field with the
step of one warmed the cockles of the colonel's pride. The regiment
came to parade rest, and the band went swinging past their front,
past the reviewing-stand. As it wheeled into place, the colonel,
who had been speaking to the adjutant, who was the lieutenant of
Company A, bit his sentence in the middle, and glared at something
that moved, glittering, at the heels of the drum-major.

The colonel turned bright red. His glass fell out of his
eye-socket.

"What the devil is the matter with that dog?" he whispered softly.
And the adjutant, who had also seen and was suffocating, managed to
articulate, "Collars!"

The colonel put his glass back in his eye. His shoulders shook. He
coughed violently as he addressed the adjutant:

"Have that dog removed--no, let him alone--no, adjutant, bring him
here!"

So the adjutant, biting his lip, motioned Muldoon to fall out.

Tough old Muldoon tucked Scrap, struggling, squirming, glittering
like a hardware shop, under his arm, and saluted his commander,
while the review waited.

The colonel was blinking through his glass and trying not to grin.

"Sergeant, how many collars has that dog got on?"

"Thirteen, sor," said Muldoon.

"What for?" said the colonel, severely.

"Wan for each company, sor, an' wan for the band."



A FIRE-FIGHTER'S DOG

By Arthur Quiller-Couch

This is the story of a very distinguished member of the London Fire
Brigade--the dog Chance. It proves that the fascinations of fires
(and who that has witnessed a fire cannot own this fascination?)
extends even to the brute creation. In old Egypt, Herodotus tells
us, the cats used on the occasion of a conflagration to rush forth
from their burning homes, and then madly attempt to return again;
and the Egyptians, who worshipped the animals, had to form a ring
round to prevent their dashing past and sacrificing themselves to
the flames. This may, however, be due to the cat's notorious love
for home. In the case of the dog Chance another hypothesis has to
be searched for.

The animal formed his first acquaintance with the brigade by
following a fireman from a conflagration in Shoreditch to the
central station at Watling Street. Here, after he had been petted
for some time by the men, his master came for him and took him
home. But the dog quickly escaped and returned to the central
station on the very first opportunity. He was carried back,
returned, was carried back again, and again returned.

At this point his master--"like a mother whose son _will_ go
to sea"--abandoned the struggle and allowed him to follow his own
course. Henceforth for years he invariably went with the engine,
sometimes upon the carriage itself, sometimes under the horses'
legs; and always, when going uphill, running in advance, and
announcing by his bark the welcome news that the fire-engine was at
hand.

Arrived at the fire, he would amuse himself with pulling burning
logs of wood out of the flames with his mouth, firmly impressed
that he was rendering the greatest service, and clearly anxious to
show the laymen that he understood all about the business. Although
he had his legs broken half a dozen times, he remained faithful to
the profession he had so obstinately chosen. At last, having taken
a more serious hurt than usual, he was being nursed by the firemen
beside the hearth, when a "call" came. At the well-known sound of
the engine turning out, the poor old dog made a last effort to
climb upon it, and fell back--dead.

He was stuffed, and preserved at the station for some time. But
even in death he was destined to prove the friend of the brigade.
For, one of the engineers having committed suicide, the firemen
determined to raffle him for the benefit of the widow, and such was
his fame that he realized 123 pounds 10 shillings, 9 pence, or over
$615 in American money!



PLATO: THE STORY OF A CAT

By A. S. Downs

One day last summer a large handsome black cat walked gravely up
one side of Main street, crossed, and went half-way down the other.
He stopped at a house called The Den, went up the piazza steps, and
paused by an open window.

A lady sitting inside saw and spoke to him; but without taking any
notice, he put his paws on the sill, looked around the room as if
wondering if it would suit him, and finally gazed into her face.

After thinking a minute he went in, and from that hour took his
place as an important member of the family. Civil to all, he gives
his love only to the lady whom he first saw; and it is odd to see,
as he lies by the fire, how he listens to all conversation, but
raises his head only when she speaks, and drops it again when she
has finished, with a pleased air.

No other person in the house is so wise, for he alone never makes a
mistake. The hours he selects for his exercise are the sunniest;
the carpets he lies upon the softest, and he knows the moment he
enters the room whether his friend will let him lie in her lap, or
whether because of her best gown she will have none of him. No one
at The Den can tell how he came to be called Plato. It is a fact
that he answers to the name, and when asked if so known before he
came there, smiles wisely. "What matters it," the smile says, "how
I was called, or where I came from, since I am Plato, and am here?"

He dislikes noise, and entirely disapproves sweeping. A broom and
dustpan fill him with anxiety, and he seeks the soft cushions of
the big lounge; but when these in their turn are beaten and tossed
about, he retreats to the study-table. However, as soon as he
learned that once a week his favorite room was turned into chaos,
he sought another refuge, and refuses to get up that day until
noon.

Many were the speculations as to Plato's Christmas present. All
were satisfied with a rattan basket just large enough for him to
lie in, with a light open canopy, cushions of cardinal chintz, and
a cardinal satin bow to which was fastened a lovely card.

It was set down before Plato, and although it is probable it was
the first he had ever seen, he showed neither surprise nor
curiosity, but looked at it loftily as if such a retreat should
have been given him long ago, for could not any discerning person
see he was accustomed to luxury? He stepped in carefully and curled
himself gracefully upon the soft cushions, the glowing tints of
which were very becoming to his sable beauty.

It was soon seen that Plato was very fond of his basket, and was
unwilling to share it in the smallest degree. When little Bessie
put her doll in, "just to see if cardinal was becoming to her," he
looked so stern and walked so fiercely toward them that dolly's
heart sank within her, and Bessie said, "Please excuse us, Plato."
If balls and toys were carelessly dropped there he would push them
out without delay, and if visitors took up the basket to examine
it, he would fix his eyes upon them, thinking, "O yes, you would
pick pockets or steal the spoons if I did not watch you."

As his conduct can never be predicted, great was the curiosity when
one cold afternoon he was noticed walking up the avenue while a
miserable yellow kitten dragged herself after him. She was so thin
you could count her bones, and she had been so pulled and kicked
that there seemed to be nothing of her but length and--dirt.

When Lord Plato chooses, he enters the front doors, but as he waits
no man's pleasure, unless it pleases him first, he has a way of
getting in on his own account. Upon one of the shed doors is an
old-fashioned latch, which by jumping he can reach and lift with
his paw. Having opened the door, he pushed his poor yellow
straggler in and followed himself. She laid down at once on the
floor, and Plato began washing her with his rough tongue, while the
lookers-on assisted his hospitality by bringing a saucer of milk.
While she ate Plato rested, looking as pleased as if he were her
mother at her enjoyment. The luncheon finished, the washing was
resumed, and as the waif was now able to help, she soon looked more
respectable. But Plato had not finished his work of mercy. He
looked at the door leading to the parlor, then at her; and finally
bent down tenderly to her little torn ears, as if whispering, but
she would not move. Perhaps in all her wretched life she had never
been so comfortable, and believed in letting well enough alone.
Reason and persuasion alike useless, Plato concluded to try force
and, taking her by the back of the neck, carried her through the
house and dropped her close to his dainty cherished basket.

Then he appeared a little uncertain what to do. The basket was nice
and warm; he was tired and cold; it had been a present to him; the
street wanderer was dirty still; and the rug would be a softer bed
than she had ever known. Were these his thoughts, and was it
selfishness he conquered when at last he lifted the shivering
homeless creature into his own beautiful nest?



PETER: A CAT O' ONE TAIL

By Charles Morley

Peter, the admirable cat whose brief history I am about to relate,
appeared in the world on a terrible winter's night. A fierce
snowstorm was raging, the sleet was driving at a terrific rate
through the air, and the streets were banked up with snow-drifts.
All traffic had been stopped, the roar of London was hushed, and
every one who had the merest pretence of a fireside sought it on
this memorable occasion. It was a wild night in the city, a wild
night in the country, a wild night at sea, and certainly a most
unpropitious night for the birth of a cat, an animal which is
always associated with home and hearth. The fact remains that Peter
was born on the night of one of the most terrible storms on record.

Our chairs were drawn up to the fire, the tea-things were on
the table, and my mother was just about to try the strength
of the brew, when Ann Tibbits, our faithful and well-tried
maid-of-all-work, bounced into the room without knocking at the
door. Her cap was all awry, her hair was dishevelled, and she
gasped for breath as she addressed herself to my mother thus,
in spasms:

"Please--ma'am--the cat has put her kittens--in--your--bonnet!"

Such a breach of discipline had never been known before in our prim
household, where there was a place for everything, and everything
had a place.

My mother pushed her spectacles on to her forehead, and, looking
severely at Ann, said: "_Which_ one, Ann? My summer bonnet,
or--my winter bonnet?"

"The one with the fur lining, ma'am."

"And a most comfortable bonnet to live in, I'm sure!" replied my
mother sarcastically, as much as to say that she wished all cats
had such a choice under the circumstances. "Another cat would have
chosen the one with the lace and the violets, out of sheer
perverseness. But there--I _knew_ I could depend on a cat
which had been trained in _my_ house."

My mother poured out a cup of tea, betraying no agitation
as she dropped two lumps of sugar into the cup--her customary
allowance--and helped herself to cream. In a minute or two,
however, she took up her knitting, and I noticed that two stitches
in succession were dropped, a sure sign that she was perturbed in
spirit. Suddenly my mother turned her eyes to the fire.

"_How many_, Ann?" she continued, addressing our faithful
servant, who still remained standing at the table awaiting her
orders.

"Seven, ma'am."

"_Seven!_" cried my mother. "Seven--it's outrageous. Why, my
bonnet wouldn't hold 'em!"

"Three in the bonnet, ma'am, and two in your new m-u-f-f!"

"My new muff!" cried my mother. "I _knew_ you were keeping
something back." And the stitches dropped fast and furious. "That's
only _five_, Ann," she continued, looking up from her work.
"Where are the other two? I insist upon knowing."

"In the Alaska tail boa, ma'am," responded Ann, timidly.

Slowly my mother's wrath evaporated, and her features settled down
to their ordinary aspect of composure.

"Well," she said, "it might have been worse. She might have put
them in my silk dress. But there--it is evident that something must
be done. I'm a kind woman, I hope, but I'm not going to be
responsible for seven young and tender kittens. Ann Tibbits,
England expects every woman to do her duty!"

"_All?_ asked Ann.

"_Four_," replied my mother.

"Now?" asked Ann.

"The sooner the better," said my mother.

At this moment a sudden blast shook every window in the house,
which seemed to be in momentary danger of a total collapse.

"Not fit to turn a dog out," murmured my mother. "Not fit to turn a
dog out. Ugh! how cold it is, and here am I condemning to death
four poor little kittens on a night like this--to snatch them away
from their warm mother, my muff, and Alaska tail, and dip them in a
bucket of ice-cold water. And yet they must go; but, Ann, I've an
idea--WARM the water. They shall leave the world comfortably.
They'll never know it."

The faithful, unemotional Ann carried out her instructions. Peter
was one of the three kittens which were born in my mother's
fur-lined bonnet, and the white marks on his body always remind me
of the terrible snowstorm in the midst of which he sounded his
first mew.

After several weeks the liberty which our cat Cordelia had taken
with my mother's finery was forgotten, and the household had
settled down into its usual humdrum routine. Tibbits had made the
new arrivals a bed in the little box-room, and the doctor declared
that Mrs. Cordelia was doing as well as could be expected. Every
morning we had asked the usual question: "How is Cordelia?" "Quite
well, thank you." "And the kittens?" "Also quite well." In due
course Ann brought the welcome news that the three kittens had
opened their eyes, and the kid glove was at once detached from the
knocker of the front door. It was on the morning after they had
obtained their blessed sight that I was invited by Tibbits to go
downstairs and take my choice. I went down, but I could see nothing
of the kittens; there was only Cordelia, with tail twisting, eyes
aflame, and whiskers bristling, wheeling round and round a number
of straw cases in which champagne had once been packed. Lo! one of
the cases began to walk. The movement caught Cordelia's eye, and
she knocked it over with her paw. A fluffy, chubby kitten,
consisting of a black body with a patch of white on it, was
revealed. The little one so captivated my fancy that I put him in
my pocket, and without more ado took him upstairs, and publicly
announced my determination to claim him as my property.

"What shall we name it?" asked my mother.

"Fiz," said one, alluding to the empty champagne cases,--a
suggestion which was at once overruled, as we were a temperate
family and little given to sparkling liquids. "Pop" was also voted
against, not only as being vulgar, but as going to the other
extreme, and leading people to suppose that we were extensively
addicted to ginger-ale.

"I think, my dears, as Peter was born on a--" My mother's speech
was interrupted by an exultant "Cock-a-doodle-do."

"That horrid fowl again!" exclaimed my mother.

The cock in question was the property of a neighbor, and was a most
annoying bird. Even my kitten was disturbed by the defiant note.
"_M-e-w?_" said he, in a meek interrogative, as much as to
say, "What _is_ that dreadful noise?"

"Cock-a-doodle-do," cried the bird again.

"Mew," replied the kitten, this time with a note of anger in his
voice. "COCK-A-DOODLE," screamed the bird, evidently in a violent
temper. "Mew," said the kitten again, in a tone of remonstrance.
The remaining syllable of his war-cry and the kitten's reply were
cut short by my mother, who put her fingers to her ears, and said:

"And the cock crowed thrice. My dears, I have it!"

"What, mother?"

"We'll call him PETER." cried the family.

"Peter Gray?"

"Peter Simple?"

"Peter the Great?"

"No," replied my mother, with a humorous twinkle, "Peter the
Apostle," pointing to the Family Bible, which was always kept on a
little occasional table in a corner of the sitting-room. "And let
Peter be a living warning against fibbing, my dears, whether on a
small scale or a large one."

A bowl of water was then placed on the table and, having sprinkled
a shower upon his devoted back, I as his proprietor, looking at him
closely, cried:

"Arise, Peter; obey thy master."

In the middle of my exhortations, however, Cordelia jumped on the
table, took little Peter by the scruff of his neck, and carried him
back to the nursery.

The day came when I put Peter into the pocket of my overcoat, and
took him away to his new home. I had the greatest confidence in
him, being a firm believer in the doctrine of heredity. His father
I never knew, but his grandfather bore a great reputation for
courage, as was indicated on his tombstone, the inscription on
which ran as follows:

   Here lies LEAR. Aged about 8 years. A Tom Cat killed in
   single combat with Tom the Templar whilst defending his
   hearth and home. England expects every cat to do his
   duty.

His mother Cordelia was of an affectionate nature, caring little
for the chase, indifferent to birds (except sparrows), temperate in
the matter of fish, timid of dogs, a kind mother, and had never
been known to scratch a child. I believed then that there was every
possibility of Peter's inheriting the admirable qualities of his
relatives. The world into which he was introduced contained a large
assortment of curios which I had bought in many a salesroom, such
as bits of old oak, bits of armor, bits of china, bits of tapestry,
and innumerable odds and ends which had taken my fancy. Picture,
then, Peter drinking his milk from a Crown Derby dish which I had
placed in a corner between the toes of a gentleman skeleton whom
Time had stained a tobacco brown. The Crown Derby dish and the
skeleton were, like the rest of my furniture, "bargains." At this
period of his life Peter resembled a series of irregular circles,
such as a geometrician might have made in an absent moment: two
round eyes, one round head, and one round body. I regarded him much
as a young mother would her first baby, for he was my first pet. I
watched him lest he should get into danger; I conversed with him in
a strange jargon, which I called cats' language; I played with him
constantly, and introduced him to a black hole behind the
skeleton's left heel, which was supposed to be the home of mice. He
kept a close watch on the black hole, and one day, which is never
to be forgotten, he caught his first mouse. It was a very little
one, but it clung to Peter's nose and made it bleed. Regardless of
the pain, Peter marched up to me, tail in air, and laid the
half-dead mouse at my feet, with a look in his eyes which said
plainly enough, "Shades of Caesar! I claim a Triumph, master."

He returned to the black hole again, and mewed piteously for more.
Peter was very green, as you will understand, but he soon
discovered that mewing kept the mice away, and having taken the
lesson to heart, preserved silence for the future. The mouse-hunts
occupied but a small portion of Peter's time. He was full of queer
pranks, which youth and high spirits suggested to him. He took a
delight in tumbling down the stairs; he hid himself in the mouth of
a lion whose head was one of my chief treasures; he tilted against
a dragon candlestick like a young St. George; he burnt his budding
whiskers in an attempt to discover the source of the flame in the
wick of the candle. He became, too, a great connoisseur of vases,
ornaments, and pictures, sitting before them and examining them for
an hour at a time. He was also very much given to voyages of
discovery, dark continents having a peculiar fascination for him.
Even the lion's mouth had no terror for him. I once produced him
from the interior of a brand-new top hat like a conjurer an
omelette. Again, we were very much surprised at breakfast one
morning to see Peter walk out of a rabbit-pie in which he had
secreted himself.

I used to let my canary fly about the room, and Peter chased him.
The canary flew to an old helmet on a shelf, and thus baffled
Peter. The canary seemed to know this, for when Peter was in the
room he always flew to the helmet and sang in peace. If he perched
elsewhere there was a chase. The linnet's cage I placed on the
window-sill in sunny weather, and Peter took great interest in him.
He could not see the musician, but he heard the music, and tried
every means he knew to discover its source.

At last he peeped through a little hole at the back of the cage,
and when he saw the bird he was quite satisfied, and made no
attempt to disturb it.

In the matter of eating and drinking Peter was inclined to
vegetarianism, being fond of beet-root and cabbage, but he soon
took to carnal habits, always liking his food to be divided into
three portions, consisting of greens, potatoes, and meat. In
addition to such food as we gave him he by no means despised any
delicacies he could discover on his own account. For instance he
cleaned out a pot of glycerine. Having tilted the lid up, he pulled
out the pins from a pincushion, but was saved in time; he was
curious about a powder-box, and came mewing downstairs a Peter in
white; he did not despise the birds out of a hat; he lost his
temper when he saw his rival in the looking-glass, and was beside
himself with rage when the glass swung round and he saw only a
plain board. His most curious experience was his first glimpse of
the moon, which he saw from our bit of back garden. He was rooted
to the ground with wonder at the amazing sight, and we called him
in vain. The only reply was a melancholy, love-stricken mew which
went to my heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

So Peter rejoiced in the days of his youth, and there was no end to
his frolics. But do not think for a moment that his education was
neglected, especially in the invaluable matters of manners and
deportment, both of which are so essential to advancement in life.
I taught him to sit at table; to enter a room with grace, and to
leave it with dignity. Indeed, I spared no trouble, and Peter
became as rigorous as a Chesterfield in the proper observance of
all such matters. I can give you no better example of Peter's
extensive knowledge of what was right and wrong in the ceremonial
side of life than by telling you that when he felt an irrepressible
sneeze forming he trotted out of the room and sneezed outside. When
Peter played, too, he played gently, and did not disturb his elders
by obtrusive attentions. He never required to be told twice to do a
thing. Once was enough for Peter. Then again in the matter of
breakages he was as virtuous a kitten as ever lived. I had thirty
precious blue china vases on my sideboard, and through this fragile
maze Peter always wound in and out without moving a vase. His
virtues in this respect were well known to my servants, who never
accused Peter of breaking the milk-jug, or the cups and saucers, I
can assure you. Like the best of human beings, he had his faults,
but upon these it would be impertinent to touch more than lightly.

Peter was partial to Fridays, because Fridays were devoted to
cleaning up. If you have ever watched a woman washing the kitchen
floor, you will have noticed that she completes one patch before
she proceeds with the next, as if she took pride in each patch,
regarding it as a picture. It was Peter's delight to sit and watch
this domestic operation; and no sooner was the woman's back turned
towards a fresh portion of her territory than Peter ran all over
the freshly washed patch and impressed it with the seal of his
paws, just as an explorer would indicate a great annexation by a
series of flags. That was a mere frolic. It was about this time
that I discovered Peter's power as a performing cat. I tied a
hare's foot to a piece of string and dangled it before Peter's
eyes. I hid the hare's foot in strange places. I flung it
downstairs. I threw it upstairs. The hare's foot never failed to
attract him. We used to roll on the floor together; we played
hide-and-seek together. I noticed that he had a habit of lying on
his back with his tail out, his head back, and his paws crossed. By
degrees I taught him to assume this attitude at the word of
command, so that when I said, "Die, Peter!" Peter turned on his
back and became rigid until he received permission to live again.

I also taught him to talk in mews at the word of command. I hear
some genial critic exclaim that this cannot be true. I decline to
argue with any critic that ever lived, and repeat, fearlessly, and
in measured terms, that Peter talked to _me._ Of course he
would not drop into conversation with the first person who bade him
"good-morning," but I assert again that Peter and I held many
conversations together by means of the "mew," used with a score of
inflections, often delicately shaded, each of which conveyed its
meaning to me.

Peter took to reading, too, quite easily, and sat up with
eye-glasses on his nose and a paper between his paws. It was, as
you may well imagine, a red-letter day with me when Peter said his
prayers for the first time; and I was better pleased when he put
his little paws up and lifted his eyes up to the ceiling than with
any other of his accomplishments, though they were more appreciated
by unthinking friends. It was all very well to place a mouse at my
feet and thus play to the gallery, but I felt that Peter's thirst
for applause might be his ruin.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the summer came, and the London pavements began to quake with
heat, I determined to fly to the country. As delights are doubled
when shared with those we care for, I determined to take Peter with
me, so I packed him up in a specially constructed travelling saloon
of his own, to wit, a flannel-lined basket containing all the
necessary comforts for the journey, such as air-holes and
feeding-bottles, and off we started in the highest of spirits.
Peter found a new world opened to him, and the thousand and one
beauties of the country fascinated us both. We were the guests of a
burly farmer, who lived in a queer old house, half timber and half
brick, with low-ceilinged rooms. The general living-room was the
capacious kitchen, which looked mighty picturesque. Oak panels ran
half-way up to the ceiling; the pots and pans were ranged neatly in
an open cupboard, pleasantly suggestive of good fare and plenty of
it. There were flowers in red pots in the windows, and my bedroom
was a picture of coolness and cleanliness.

Amid these pleasant surroundings Peter soon made himself very
happy, and became a great friend of a cat called Jack, who took him
under his charge and showed him the ways of the country. Jack was a
favorite on the farm. He was certainly given to roving, and did not
always "come home to tea." As a mouser he had few equals in the
countryside, and one evening when we were telling stories by the
fireside the farmer told me that Jack had despatched no less than
four hundred mice from one hay-rick.

Jack was a disciple of Isaak Walton. He would crouch on a mossy
knoll by the edge of the river, and sometimes was successful in
capturing a small trout. The farmer was himself a great fisherman.
Jack was a study while the preparations were in progress, and, all
intent, would follow close at his master's heels. He would crouch
among the rushes whilst the tackle was being adjusted, and
anxiously scan the water as the fly drifted along the surface. He
took a keen delight in the sport, and when a fish was negotiating
the bait he always purred loudly in anticipation of the feast in
prospect. The trout landed and the line re-cast, he would seize his
prey, and with stealthy gait slink off with his prize, leaving the
old farmer to discover his loss when he might. Together Jack and
Peter roamed over the meadow lands, and the poultry-run was an
object of great interest to them. Together they fought the rats,
and together they would lie in wait for the thrush and the
blackbird,--I am happy to say in vain. The farmer told me that in
his youth Jack once took up his residence in the hollow of an old
oak, where he lived on the furred and feathered game. At last he
returned home. For hours he wandered about his old home, fearful of
discovery, now crouching amongst the flower-beds, and now flying in
terror at the sound of the hall clock. At last he ventured into the
kitchen, entering by the window and creeping to the kitchen hearth,
where he dozed off to the music of the cricket, to be welcomed like
another Prodigal Son.

Alas! these delights were cut short, for Peter and I were soon
compelled to pack up our traps and proceed to the seaside for
professional purposes. Peter was not fond of the sea. When I took
him out yachting he was compelled to call for the steward; and one
day when exploring the rocks at low water, gazing with rapture at
his own charming face as it was reflected in the glassy surface of
a deep pool, an inquiring young lobster nipped his tail, and the
shore rang with piteous calls for help. Peter has never cared for
the sea since then, and so deeply was the disaster impressed upon
him that I have known him reject a choice bit of meat which
happened to have a few grains of salt on it. It wafted him back to
the ocean, the lobster, and the steward. What powers of imagination
were Peter's!

       *       *       *       *       *

As these memoirs cover a period of seven or eight years, and as
space is limited, my readers will kindly consent to take a seat on
the convenient carpet of the magician, and be wafted gently to the
next station on the road without further question. This is a
pleasant byway in suburban London, greatly frequented by
organ-grinders, travelling bears, German bands, and peripatetic
white mice. This road is always associated in my mind with the
mysterious disappearance of Peter. We had often laughed at the odd
old lady who lived two doors higher up, for the anxiety which she
displayed when any of her pets were missing. It was our turn now.

This same old lady was very fond of her cats, and had nine of them
at the time I am writing of. Every morning when the weather was
warm, she and her cats would come out and unconsciously form a
succession of tableaux for our amusement. A rug was spread out
under the pear tree in the middle of the tiny lawn, a great
basket-chair was placed in the middle of this rug, and, these
preparations having been made, the old lady, who was very stout,
and always wore a monster poke bonnet and a shapeless black silk
dress, came out, followed by her nine cats, and took possession of
the basket-chair. A little maid then appeared with a tray, on which
were nine little blue china saucers and a jug of milk. The nine
little saucers were ranged in a semicircle, and filled with milk,
whereupon the old lady cried out, "Who says breakfast, dearies? Who
says breakfast--breakfast?" This invitation was immediately
responded to by the nine cats. When they had done the old lady
cried, "Who says washee, dearies? Washee, washee, washee?"
Whereupon the nine cats sat on their haunches and proceeded to make
their toilettes. The requirements of cleanliness having been
satisfied, and the nine basins having been taken away by the little
maid, the old lady shouted out, "Who says play, dearies? Playee,
playee, playee?" holding out her arms, and calling out, "Dido Dums,
Dido Dums, come here, deary," when a fine Persian cat jumped on to
her right shoulder. "Now Diddles Doddles, Diddles Doddles," and
another Persian cat jumped on to her left shoulder. "Tootsy
Wootsy," she called once more, and a black cat scrambled up to the
crown of the poke bonnet. And one by one they were summoned by some
endearing diminutive, until the nine cats had taken possession of
every possible coign of vantage which was offered by the old lady's
capacious person. There they sat, waving their tails to and fro,
evidently very pleased by their mistress's little attentions. Mrs.
Mee was not very popular in the neighborhood, except with the
milkman and the butcher. The cats'-meat-man, indeed, who supplied
various families in our road, positively hated her--so I gathered
from our servant,--and had been heard to say _sotto voce_ in
unguarded moments, "Ha! ha! I'll be revenged." It was not
unnatural, as the cats were fed on mutton cutlets and fresh milk,
and cats' meat was at a discount. About three weeks before Peter
disappeared, Mrs. Mee, in the short space of three or four days,
had lost no less than five cats by a violent death, and five little
graves had been dug, marked by five little tombstones, and the five
dead cats had been laid in their last resting-places by the hands
of the old lady herself. A funeral is not generally amusing, but I
could not restrain a smile when I saw my eccentric old neighbor
follow the remains of her dead pets, which were reverently carried
on the tea-tray by the little serving-maid, the old lady herself
leading the way, ringing a muffled peal with the dinner-bell, the
remaining cats bringing up the rear, pondering over the fate of
their dead comrades.

It happened that three of these unfortunate victims had been found
on my doorstep. I felt very angry with the old lady, who blamed me
for the destruction of her pets, adducing the fact that they were
found dying on my doorsteps as proof conclusive. One morning I
received an anonymous postcard. Although it bore the Charing Cross
postmark, I felt sure it came from the old lady. It read as
follows:

   "The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold."

This was the last straw, for I felt that as regards the old lady's
cats I had behaved in a sympathetic and neighborly spirit. I
remember this post-card because the same afternoon that it came
Peter disappeared, and I began to fear that he had yielded to the
temptation of a poisoned pig's foot which had been found in my
garden stripped of its flesh. This was a delicacy which Peter had
never been able to resist, though why he should have preferred it
to the choice foods that were daily piled upon his plate I cannot
for the life of me say. We searched the neighborhood in vain, and
at last I determined to advertise. Accordingly I addressed an
advertisement to my favorite paper. It ran as follows:

  "COME BACK, PETER. Lost, stolen, strayed, or poisoned, a white
  and black cat called Peter, who left his friends at--on Monday
  afternoon last. Round his neck he wore a blue ribbon with the word
  PETER embroidered upon it in red silk. Before retiring to rest he
  always says his prayers. Dead or alive, a reward of Two Pounds is
  offered to any one who will restore him to his mourning friends."

I little knew what I was bringing on my devoted head. I had been
troubled enough before with dying cats, but now they were all
alive. Cats were brought to me in baskets, in boxes, in arms; Manx
cats and cats whose tails were missing for other than hereditary
reasons; lame cats, blind cats, cats with one eye, and cats who
squinted. Never before had I seen such an extraordinary collection.
My whole time was now taken up in interviewing callers with cats.

If the boys were bad before, they were a thousand times worse now.
Here is one example out of a score. He was a boy known as Pop, who
carried the laundry baskets.

"'Ave yer found yer cat yet?"

"No, we haven't."

"Did yer say it was a yaller 'un?"

"No, I didn't."

"What did I say, Hop?" continued Pop, triumphantly turning to a
one-legged friend who swept a crossing close by.

"Yer said, Pop, as it was a tortus," murmured the bashful Hop, who
had sheltered himself behind Pop.

"A tortus, that's it. A tortus, and Hop and _I's_ found it,
sir. We've got it here."

"You're wrong. My cat's _not_ a tortoise," I replied.

"Bless you, we know that, guv'nor. Just as if we didn't know Peter!
Ah! Peter was a cat as wants a lot of replacin', Peter does. But me
and Hop's got a tortus as is a wunner, guv'nor. A heap better nor
Peter. Poor old Peter! he's dead and gone. Be sure of that. This
'ere's a reg'lar bad road. A prize-winner, warn't 'e, Hoppy?" They
held up the prize-winner, who was _not_ a tortoise, and was
mangy.

"Look here, my boys, you can take her away. Now, be off. Quick
march!"

"Yer don't want it, guv'nor. Jest think agin. Why, 'ow will you get
along without a cat? The mice is 'orrible in this 'ere road. Come,
guv'nor, I'll tell you what I'll do. You shall 'ave a bargain,"
said Pop.

I insisted that the tortoise prize-winner should be taken away, and
the next day I stopped the advertisement and resigned myself to
despair. A week after Peter had disappeared I heard the voice of my
friend Pop at the door. "I say, mister, I've some noose. Come along
o' me. I think I've found 'im. Real. A blue ribbon round 'is neck
and says 'is prayers. Put on yer 'at and foller, foller, foller
me." Mr. Pop led the way along the road, and turned off to the
right, and we walked up another road until we reached a large house
which had been unoccupied for many months. The drains were up, and
two or three workmen were busy. Pop at once introduced me as "the
gent as was lookin' for his cat." "Have you seen a cat with a blue
ribbon round his neck?" I asked them, very dubious as to the
honesty of Pop's intention. "Well, sich a cat _'as_ bin 'ere
for some days," replied the workman to whom I had spoken. "He used
to come when we were gettin' our bit of dinner. But we never know'd
but wot it came from next door. You go upstairs to the first-floor
front, and you'll see a sight." On the top of the stairs was Peter,
who knew me at once, and began to purr and rub himself against my
legs in a most affectionate manner, as if to appease any outburst
of wrath on my part. I felt too pleased to be angry, and followed
Peter into the empty room, which was littered with paper and
rubbish, and the remains of forty or fifty mice lay strewn about
the floor. Peter looked up to me as if to say: "Not a bad bag--eh,
master?" In the corner of the room was a bit of sacking which Peter
had used as a bed. Pop explained to me that he had heard the men
talking about the funny cat that came and dined with them every
day. This conversation induced him to search the house, with the
happy result that Peter was restored to the bosom of his sorrowing
family, and Pop gave up the laundry basket, and invested the reward
in a small private business of his own.

       *       *       *       *       *

Peter and I have had many homes in London and in the country.
Together we have lived in flats, in hotels, in farm-houses, and in
lodgings for single gentlemen. In lodgings for single gentlemen we
had many strange experiences which would occupy too much time to
relate, and I will therefore touch but lightly upon this period of
Peter's career. Peter, being a gentlemanly cat, never quarrelled
with ladies, however hard they might be to please, and let them
gird at him as they would. For did not that gracious animal, when
Mrs. Nagsby was accusing him of stealing fowls, say--did he not
arch his bonny back and purr against Mrs. Nagsby's ankles and
endeavor to appease her? In her softer moods she did sometimes
relax, and even allowed Peter to sit by her side as she read the
paper. Peter was held responsible for every article that was lost
in Mrs. Nagsby's apartments, and the amount of money I paid to that
good lady for breakage in the course of six months would have
furnished a small cottage. Mrs. Nagsby was a widow, and the late
lamented Nagsby had supported her by his performances on the
euphonium. This instrument was kept in a case in Mrs. Nagsby's
little room, which was on the ground-floor back, and looked on to a
series of dingy walls. Mrs. Nagsby used to polish up the euphonium
every Saturday morning with a regularity which nothing prevented.
Did it not speak volumes for her affection for the late lamented?
On one of these Saturdays it happened that a German band stopped at
the front door. Mrs. Nagsby could never resist the seductive power
of brass music. She rushed upstairs to the first-floor front to
listen to the performance. Fate ordained it that Mrs. Nagsby should
leave the precious euphonium on the floor in her haste to hear the
band. Fate ordained it also that Peter should come down stairs at
this particular moment and wend his way to Mrs. Nagsby's parlor.
Fate also had ordained it that a mouse which lived in a hole behind
Mrs. Nagsby's easy-chair should issue at this particular moment for
a little bread-crumb expedition. Mrs. Nagsby was a careful
housekeeper, and finding no crumbs about, the mouse roamed into the
silent highway presented by the orifice of the euphonium. It was
natural enough that Peter should follow the mouse. Unfortunately,
Peter's progress was stopped, the girth of his body being too great
to admit him; and my door being open, I at once rushed to the
rescue, and found Peter with his head in the depths of the
euphonium, and making fierce struggles to vacate the position. Mrs.
Nagsby came downstairs and entered her parlor just as I succeeded
in extracting Peter from the musical instrument. Fiercely was I
reproached for Peter's escapade, and humbly did I make his
apologies, little knowing the secret of the plight from which I had
rescued him. Having soothed my landlady, she at length took up the
euphonium and proceeded to apply her eye to the main orifice to see
if Peter had damaged it, handling the euphonium in the manner of a
telescope. I was thinking of the reproaches in prospect, when I was
startled by a loud shriek, to which the euphonium imparted a
metallic vibration, and Mrs. Nagsby dropped the instrument on to
the floor, the good lady herself following it with a thud. A wee
mouse scuttled across her face, disappeared behind the easy chair,
and doubtless rejoined his anxious family. Mrs. Nagsby recovered
after her maid-of-all-work and I had burnt a few sheets of brown
paper under her nostrils; but I had great difficulty in making the
peace.

In vain I pointed out that the responsibility did not remain with
me, or even with Peter. We agreed after some debate that it was the
German band, which was never afterwards patronized by Mrs. Nagsby.

I got into further trouble with Mrs. Nagsby owing to a greyhound
which I had bought at a sale. I had no character with him, for he
had no character. If Mrs. Nagsby had killed him with the meat
hatchet I would have held my peace, for never a day passed but King
Arthur took his name in vain. The first night I brought him home
Mrs. Nagsby gave me permission as a great favor to chain him to the
kitchen table. In the morning two of the table legs had been
mangled, and that is our reason why I called him King Arthur, of
the Round Table. The next night King Arthur was taken upstairs and
attached to the leg of my wash-stand. I was awakened out of my
beauty sleep by a horrible clamor which caused me to think that the
house had fallen in. I presently realized that King Arthur had
mistaken the water-jug for a dragon. In any case it was smashed to
bits, and the noise brought Mrs. Nagsby to my door in anger. I
should be sorry to say what King Arthur cost me in hard cash for
breakages and legs of mutton. Poor Peter! thou wast a saint when
compared with that fiend on four legs.

The _denouement_ came at last, and it arose from King Arthur's
fondness for the ladies. There was nothing remarkable in the
appearance of the old lady who was Mrs. Nagsby's favorite lodger,
who had held the rooms above mine for three years. Rut the lady had
a most beautiful sealskin jacket, trimmed with tails of sable. King
Arthur had unluckily a feminine affection for furs, and I never
dared to take him into any of the fashionable thoroughfares, as he
had a way of following the ladies, not for their own dear sakes,
but for the fur which they might happen to be wearing. Whether they
were only tippets or dyed rabbit-skins, it did not matter to King
Arthur.

Well, one unfortunate afternoon, I was leading my greyhound home. A
few yards in front of us was Mrs. Nagsby's first-floor lady, taking
the sun in all the glories of her sealskin jacket and sable tails.
To my horror I dropped the chain in taking a match-box out of my
pocket, and before I could take any steps to prevent him--_King
Arthur was coursing Mrs. Nagsby's first-floor lodger at his highest
rate of speed!!!_ King Arthur held on his course and literally
took the old lady aback, and began to tear those choice sable
tippets asunder. Nor was the base creature content to rest at the
sable tippets. Before I reached his victim his mouth was full of
sealskin. Let me pass on, merely saying that King Arthur was shot
that night in the mews at the back of Mrs. Nagsby's, a victim to
his own indiscretions.

And now I come to the fatal catastrophe which finally drove me and
Peter from the shelter of Mrs. Nagsby's roof. That lady had a set
of false teeth which she was in the habit of depositing on her
dressing-table when she went to bed. I had learned this from Sarah
when that damsel was in a confidential mood. Peter, I think I have
told you, slept in my room. One very warm night Mrs. Nagsby left
her door open, and her night light was burning as usual. I also
slept with my door open, and Peter, being hot like the rest of us,
left the room for a stroll, and visited Mrs. Nagsby's apartment.
Presently he came back with Mrs. Nagsby's teeth between his own--at
least I suppose so, for I found them on the hearth-rug when I
awoke. I was greatly amused, though a little puzzled to know how I
could replace them. After some reflection I went down to breakfast,
placed the trophy in a saucer, and showed it to Sarah, who screamed
and traitorously ran up and informed her mistress. Mrs. Nagsby came
down rampant, but of course speechless. I was thankful for this;
but the violent woman, after sputtering spasmodically, caught sight
of the missing article in the saucer, and, lost to all sense of
shame, replaced it in position and poured forth a torrent of the
most violent abuse.

Peter and I left.



JEFF THE INQUISITIVE

By General Rush C. Hawkins

Among the gunboats doing duty on the inland waters of North
Carolina in the early spring of 1862, which composed what Commodore
Goldsborough designated his "Pasteboard Fleet," was the
_Louisiana_, commanded by Commander Alexander Murray, who was
noted for his efficiency and good nature.

His treatment of his crew made him one of the most popular officers
in the whole fleet. He entered into all of their sports and
sympathized with the discomforts of forecastle life. He was fond of
animal pets, and always welcomed the arrival of a new one. At the
time of which I am writing, his ship carried quite a collection of
tame birds and four-footed favorites. Among them was a singular
little character, known as "Jeff." He was a perfectly black pig of
the "Racer Razor Back" order, which, at that time, were plentiful
in the coast sections of the more southern of the slave-holding
States. They were called "racers" because of their long legs,
slender bodies, and great capacity for running; and "Razor Backs"
on account of the prominence of the spinal column. The origin of
this particular species of the porcine tribe is unknown, but there
is a tradition to the effect that their progenitors were a part of
the drove that came to the coast of Florida with De Soto when he
started on the march which ended with the discovery of the
Mississippi River. History records the fact that a large number of
animals were brought from Spain for food, and that a considerable
number of them succeeded in getting away from the expedition soon
after the landing was effected.

Our particular specimen of this wandering tribe of natural
marauders was captured by a boat's crew of the _Louisiana_ in
one of the swamps adjacent to Currituck Sound when he was a wee bit
of an orphaned waif, not much larger than an ostrich egg.

He was an ill-conditioned little mite that had probably been
abandoned by a heartless mother, possibly while escaping from the
prospective mess-kettle of a Confederate picket.

In those days Confederate pickets were not very particular as to
the quality or kind of food, and I have a suspicion that even a
"Razor Back" would have been a welcome addition to their meal.

When "Jeff" was brought on board, his pitiful condition excited the
active sympathy of all, from the commander down to the smallest
powder monkey, and numerous were the suggestions made as to the
course of treatment for the new patient. The doctor was consulted,
and after a careful diagnosis, decided there was no organic
disease: want of parental care, want of nourishment and exposure,
were held responsible for "Jeff's" unfavorable condition. It was
decided to put him on a light diet of milk, which proved an
immediate success, for, within forty-eight hours after his first
meal, the patient became as lively as possible. As days and weeks
went on, there appeared an improvement of appetite that was quite
phenomenal, but no accumulation of flesh. His legs and body grew
longer; and, with this lengthening of parts, there came a
development of intellectual acuteness that was particularly
surprising. He attached himself to each individual of the ship. He
had no favorites, but was hail-fellow-well-met with all. He
developed all the playful qualities of a puppy and reasoned out a
number of problems in his own way. His particular admirers declared
that he learned the meaning of the different whistles of the
boatswain: that he knew when the meal pennant was hoisted to the
peak; could tell when the crew was beat to quarters for drill, and
often proved the correctness of this knowledge by scampering off to
take his place by one particular gun division, which seemed to have
taken his fancy.

I can testify personally to only one item in the schedule of his
intellectual achievements. It is a custom in the navy for the
commander of a ship to receive any officer of rank of either branch
of the service at the gangway of the ship. In this act of courtesy
he is always accompanied by the officer of the deck, and often by
others that may happen to be at hand. After the advent of "Jeff,"
whenever I went on board the _Louisiana,_ he was always at the
gangway, and seemingly was deeply interested in the event. It may
be said of him, generally, that he was overflowing with spirits,
and took an active interest in all the daily routine work of his
ship.

He had a most pertinacious way of poking his nose into all sorts of
affairs, not at all after the manner of the usual pig, but more
like a village gossip who wants to know about everything that is
going on in the neighborhood.

In the gradual development of "Jeff's" character, it was discovered
that he had none of the usual well-known traits of the pig. He was
more like a petted and pampered dog, was playful, good-natured, and
expressed pleasure, pain, anger, and desire, with various squeals
and grunts, delivered with a variety of intonations that were very
easily interpreted. He wa