ceremony and sign a paper supposed to be a
certificate._

"July 31. Mr. Clavering takes steamer for Liverpool. _Proved by
newspapers of that date._

"September. Eleanore Leavenworth in her uncle's house in New York,
conducting herself as usual, but pale of face and preoccupied in
manner. _Proved by servants then in her service._ Mr. Clavering in
London; watches the United States mails with eagerness, but receives
no letters. Fits up room elegantly, as for a lady. _Proved by secret
communication from London._

"November. Miss Leavenworth still in uncle's house. No publication
of her marriage ever made. Mr. Clavering in London; shows signs of
uneasiness; the room prepared for lady closed. _Proved as above._

"January 17, 1876. Mr. Clavering, having returned to America,
engages room at Hoffman House, New York.

"March 1 or 2. Mr. Leavenworth receives a letter signed by Henry
Clavering, in which he complains of having been ill-used by one of that
gentleman's nieces. A manifest shade falls over the family at this time.

"March 4. Mr. Clavering under a false name inquires at the door of
Mr. Leavenworth's house for Miss Eleanore Leavenworth. _Proved by
Thomas.'"_

"March 4th?" exclaimed Mr. Gryce at this point. "That was the
night of the murder.-"

"Yes; the Mr. Le Roy Robbins said to have called that evening was
none other than Mr. Clavering."

"March 19. Miss Mary Leavenworth, in a conversation with me,
acknowledges that there is a secret in the family, and is just upon the
point of revealing its nature, when Mr. Clavering enters the house.
Upon his departure she declares her unwillingness ever to mention the
subject again."

Mr. Gryce slowly waved the paper aside. "And from these facts you
draw the inference that Eleanore Leavenworth is the wife of Mr.
Clavering?"

"I do."

"And that, being his wife----"

"It would be natural for her to conceal anything she knew likely to
criminate him."

"Always supposing Clavering himself had done anything criminal!"

"Of course."

"Which latter supposition you now propose to justify!"

"Which latter supposition it is left for _us_ to justify."

A peculiar gleam shot over Mr. Gryce's somewhat abstracted
countenance. "Then you have no new evidence against Mr. Clavering?"

"I should think the fact just given, of his standing in the
relation of unacknowledged husband to the suspected party was
something."

"No positive evidence as to his being the assassin of Mr.
Leavenworth, I mean?"

I was obliged to admit I had none which he would Consider positive.
"But I can show the existence of motive; and I can likewise show it
was not only possible, but probable, he was in the house at the time of
the murder."

"Ah, you can!" cried Mr. Gryce, rousing a little from his
abstraction.

"The motive was the usual one of self-interest. Mr. Leavenworth
stood in the way of Eleanore's acknowledging him as a husband, and he
must therefore be put out of the way."

"Weak!"

"Motives for murders are sometimes weak."

"The motive for this was not. Too much calculation was shown for
the arm to have been nerved by anything short of the most deliberate
intention, founded upon the deadliest necessity of passion or avarice."

"Avarice?"

"One should never deliberate upon the causes which have led to the
destruction of a rich man without taking into account that most common
passion of the human race."

"But----"

"Let us hear what you have to say of Mr. Clavering's presence in
the house at the time of the murder."

I related what Thomas the butler had told me in regard to Mr.
Clavering's call upon Miss Leavenworth that night, and the lack of
proof which existed as to his having left the house when supposed to do
so.

"That is worth remembering," said Mr. Gryce at the conclusion.
"Valueless as direct evidence, it might prove of great value as
corroborative." Then, in a graver tone, he went on to say: "Mr.
Raymond, are you aware that in all this you have been strengthening the
case against Eleanore Leavenworth instead of weakening it?"

I could only ejaculate, in my sudden wonder and dismay.

"You have shown her to be secret, sly, and unprincipled; capable
of wronging those to whom she was most bound, her uncle and her
husband."

"You put it very strongly," said I, conscious of a shocking
discrepancy between this description of Eleanore's character and all
that I had preconceived in regard to it.

"No more so than your own conclusions from this story warrant me
in doing." Then, as I sat silent, murmured low, and as if to himself:
"If the case was dark against her before, it is doubly so with this
supposition established of her being the woman secretly married to Mr.
Clavering."

"And yet," I protested, unable to give up my hope without a
struggle; "you do not, cannot, believe the noble-looking Eleanore
guilty of this horrible crime?"

"No," he slowly said; "you might as well know right here what I
think about that. I believe Eleanore Leavenworth to be an innocent
woman."

"You do? Then what," I cried, swaying between joy at this admission
and doubt as to the meaning of his former expressions, "remains to be
done?"

Mr. Gryce quietly responded: "Why, nothing but to prove your
supposition a false one."



XXV. TIMOTHY COOK

    "Look here upon this picture and on this."
        --Hamlet.

I STARED at him in amazement. "I doubt if it will be so very
difficult," said he. Then, in a sudden burst, "Where is the man Cook?"

"He is below with Q."

"That was a wise move; let us see the boys; have them up."

Stepping to the door I called them.

"I expected, of course, you would want to question them," said I,
coming back.

In another moment the spruce Q and the shock-headed Cook entered the
room.

"Ah," said Mr. Gryce, directing his attention at the latter in his
own whimsical, non-committal way; "this is the deceased Mr. Stebbins'
hired man, is it? Well, you look as though you could tell the truth."

"I usually calculate to do that thing, sir; at all events, I was
never called a liar as I can remember."

"Of course not, of course not," returned the affable detective.
Then, without any further introduction: "What was the first name of
the lady you saw married in your master's house last summer?"

"Bless me if I know! I don't think I heard, sir."

"But you recollect how she looked?"

"As well as if she was my own mother. No disrespect to the lady,
sir, if you know her," he made haste to add, glancing hurriedly at me.
"What I mean is, she was so handsome, I could never forget the look
of her sweet face if I lived a hundred years."

"Can you describe her?"

"I don't know, sirs; she was tall and grand-looking, had the
brightest eyes and the whitest hand, and smiled in a way to make even a
common man like me wish he had never seen her."

"Would you know her in a crowd?"

"I would know her anywhere."

"Very well; now tell us all you can about that marriage."

"Well, sirs, it was something like this. I had been in Mr.
Stebbins' employ about a year, when one morning as I was hoeing in the
garden I saw a gentleman walk rapidly up the road to our gate and come
in. I noticed him particularly, because he was so fine-looking; unlike
anybody in F----, and, indeed, unlike anybody I had ever seen, for that
matter; but I shouldn't have thought much about that if there hadn't
come along, not five minutes after, a buggy with two ladies in it,
which stopped at our gate, too. I saw they wanted to get out, so I went
and held their horse for them, and they got down and went into the
house."

"Did you see their faces?"

"No, sir; not then. They had veils on."

"Very well, go on."

"I hadn't been to work long, before I heard some one calling my
name, and looking up, saw Mr. Stebbins standing in the doorway
beckoning. I went to him, and he-said, 'I want you, Tim; wash your
hands and come into the parlor.' I had never been asked to do that
before, and it struck me all of a heap; but I did what he asked, and
was so taken aback at the looks of the lady I saw standing up on the
floor with the handsome gentleman, that I stumbled over a stool and
made a great racket, and didn't know much where I was or what was going
on, till I heard Mr. Stebbins say 'man and wife'; and then it came
over me in a hot kind of way that it was a marriage I was seeing."

Timothy Cook stopped to wipe his forehead, as if overcome with the
very recollection, and Mr. Gryce took the opportunity to remark:

"You say there were two ladies; now where was the other one at this
time?"

"She was there, sir; but I didn't mind much about her, I was so
taken up with the handsome one and the way she had of smiling when any
one looked at her. I never saw the beat."

I felt a quick thrill go through me.

"Can you remember the color of her hair or eyes?"

"No, sir; I had a feeling as if she wasn't dark, and that is all I
know."

"But you remember her face?"

"Yes, sir!"

Mr. Gryce here whispered me to procure two pictures which I would
find in a certain drawer in his desk, and set them up in different
parts of the room unbeknown to the man.

"You have before said," pursued Mr. Gryce, "that you have no
remembrance of her name. Now, how was that? Weren't you called upon to
sign the certificate?"

"Yes, sir; but I am most ashamed to say it; I was in a sort of
maze, and didn't hear much, and only remember it was a Mr. Clavering
she was married to, and that some one called some one else Elner, or
something like that. I wish I hadn't been so stupid, sir, if it would
have done you any good."

"Tell us about the signing of the certificate," said Mr. Gryce.

"Well, sir, there isn't much to tell. Mr. Stebbins asked me to put
my name down in a certain place on a piece of paper he pushed towards
me, and I put it down there; that is all."

"Was there no other name there when you wrote yours?"

"No, sir. Afterwards Mr. Stebbins turned towards the other lady,
who now came forward, and asked her if she wouldn't please sign it,
too; and she said,' yes,' and came very quickly and did so."

"And didn't you see her face then?"

"No, sir; her back was to me when she threw by her veil, and I
only saw Mr. Stebbins staring at her as she stooped, with a kind of
wonder on his face, which made me think she might have been something
worth looking at too; but I didn't see her myself."

"Well, what happened then?"

"I don't know, sir. I went stumbling out of the room, and didn't
see anything more."

"Where were you when the ladies went away?"

"In the garden, sir. I had gone back to my work."

"You saw them, then. Was the gentleman with them?"

"No, sir; that was the queer part of it all. They went back as they
came, and so did he; and in a few minutes Mr. Stebbins came out where
I was, and told me I was to say nothing about what I had seen, for it
was a secret."

"Were you the only one in the house who knew anything about it?
Weren't there any women around?"

"No, sir; Miss Stebbins had gone to the sewing circle."

I had by this time some faint impression of what Mr. Gryce's
suspicions were, and in arranging the pictures had placed one, that of
Eleanore, on the mantel-piece, and the other, which was an uncommonly
fine photograph of Mary, in plain view on the desk. But Mr. Cook's back
was as yet towards that part of the room, and, taking advantage of the
moment, I returned and asked him if that was all he had to tell us
about this matter.

"Yes, sir."

"Then," said Mr. Gryce, with a glance at Q, "isn't there something
you can give Mr. Cook in payment for his story? Look around, will you?"

Q nodded, and moved towards a cupboard in the wall at the side of
the mantel-piece; Mr. Cook following him with his eyes, as was natural,
when, with a sudden start, he crossed the room and, pausing before the
mantelpiece, looked at the picture of Eleanore which I had put there,
gave a low grunt of satisfaction or pleasure, looked at it again, and
walked away. I felt my heart leap into my throat, and, moved by what
impulse of dread or hope I cannot say, turned my back, when suddenly I
heard him give vent to a startled exclamation, followed by the words:
"Why! here she is; this is her, sirs," and turning around saw him
hurrying towards us with Mary's picture in his hands.

I do not know as I was greatly surprised. I was powerfully excited,
as well as conscious of a certain whirl of thought, and an unsettling
of old conclusions that was very confusing; but surprised? No. Mr.
Gryce's manner had too well prepared me.

"This the lady who was married to Mr. Clavering, my good man? I
guess you are mistaken," cried the detective, in a very incredulous
tone.

"Mistaken? Didn't I say I would know her anywhere? This is the
lady, if she is the president's wife herself." And Mr. Cook leaned over
it with a devouring look that was not without its element of homage.

"I am very much astonished," Mr. Gryce went on, winking at me in a
slow, diabolical way which in another mood would have aroused my
fiercest anger. "Now, if you had said the other lady was the one "--
pointing to the picture on the mantelpiece,"! shouldn't have wondered."

"She? I never saw that lady before; but this one --would you mind
telling me her name, sirs?"

"If what you say is true, her name is Mrs. Clavering."

"Clavering? Yes, that was his name."

"And a very lovely lady," said Mr. Gryce. "Morris, haven't you
found anything yet?"

Q, for answer, brought forward glasses and a bottle.

But Mr. Cook was in no mood for liquor. I think he was struck with
remorse; for, looking from the picture to Q, and from Q to the picture,
he said:

"If I have done this lady wrong by my talk, I '11 never forgive
myself. You told me I would help her to get her rights; if you have
deceived me ----"

"Oh, I haven't deceived you," broke in Q, in his short, sharp way.
"Ask that gentleman there if we are not all interested in Mrs.
Clavering getting her due."

He had designated me; but I was in no mood to reply. I longed to
have the man dismissed, that I might inquire the reason of the great
complacency which I now saw overspreading Mr. Gryce's frame, to his
very finger-ends.

"Mr. Cook needn't be concerned," remarked Mr. Gryce. "If he will
take a glass of warm crink to fortify him for his walk, I think he may
go to the lodgings Mr. Morris has provided for him without fear. Give
the gent a glass, and let him mix for himself."

But it was full ten minutes before we were delivered of the man and
his vain regrets. Mary's image had called up every latent feeling in
his heart, and I could but wonder over a loveliness capable of swaying
the low as well as the high. But at last he yielded to the seductions
of the now wily _Q,_ and departed.

Left alone with Mr. Gryce, I must have allowed some of the confused
emotions which filled my breast to become apparent on my countenance;
for after a few minutes of ominous silence, be exclaimed very grimly,
and yet with a latent touch of that complacency I had before noticed:

"This discovery rather upsets you, doesn't it? Well, it don't me,"
shutting his mouth like a trap. "I expected it."

"Your conclusions must differ very materially from mine," I
returned; "or you would see that this discovery alters the complexion
of the whole affair."

"It does not alter the truth."

"What is the truth?"

Mr. Gryce's very legs grew thoughtful; his voice sank to its deepest
tone. "Do you very much want to know?"

"Want to know the truth? What else are we after?"

"Then," said he, "to my notion, the complexion of things has
altered, but very much for the better. As long as Eleanore was believed
to be the wife, her action in this matter was accounted for; but the
tragedy itself was not. Why should Eleanore or Eleanore's husband wish
the death of a man whose bounty they believed would end with his life?
But with Mary, the heiress, proved the wife!--I tell you, Mr.
Raymond, it all hangs together now. You must never, in reckoning up an
affair of murder like this, forget who it is that most profits by the
deceased man's death."

"But Eleanore's silence? her concealment of certain proofs and
evidences in her own breast--how will you account for that? I can
imagine a woman devoting herself to the shielding of a husband from the
consequences of crime; but a cousin's husband, never."

Mr. Gryce put his feet very close together, and softly grunted.
"Then you still think Mr. Clavering the assassin of Mr. Leavenworth?"

I could only stare at him in my sudden doubt and dread. "Still
think?" I repeated.

"Mr. Clavering the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth?"

"Why, what else is there to think? You don't--you can't--suspect
Eleanore of having deliberately undertaken to help her cousin out of a
difficulty by taking the life of their mutual benefactor?"

"No," said Mr. Gryce; "no, I do not think Eleanore Leavenworth
had any hand in the business."

"Then who--" I began, and stopped, lost in the dark vista that was
opening before me.

"Who? Why, who but the one whose past deceit and present necessity
demanded his death as a relief? Who but the beautiful, money-loving,
man-deceiving goddess----"

I leaped to my feet in my sudden horror and repugnance. "Do not
mention the name! You are wrong; but do not speak the name."

"Excuse me," said he; "but it will have to be spoken many times,
and we may as well begin here and now--who then but Mary Leavenworth;
or, if you like it better, Mrs. Henry Clavering? Are you so much
surprised? It has been my thought from the beginning."



XXVI. MR. GRYCE EXPLAINS HIMSELF

    "Sits the wind in that corner?"
        --Much Ado about Nothing.

I DO not propose to enter into a description of the mingled feelings
aroused in me by this announcement. As a drowning man is said to live
over in one terrible instant the events of a lifetime, so each word
uttered in my hearing by Mary, from her first introduction to me in her
own room, on the morning of the inquest, to our final conversation on
the night of Mr. Clavering's call, swept in one wild phantasmagoria
through my brain, leaving me aghast at the signification which her
whole conduct seemed to acquire from the lurid light which now fell
upon it.

"I perceive that I have pulled down an avalanche of doubts about
your ears," exclaimed my companion from the height of his calm
superiority. "You never thought of this possibility, then, yourself?"

"Do not ask me what I have thought. I only know I will never
believe your suspicions true. That, however much Mary may have been
benefited by her uncle's death, she never had a hand in it; actual
hand, I mean."

"And what makes you so sure of this?"

"And what makes you so sure of the contrary? It is for you to
prove, not for me to prove her innocence."

"Ah," said Mr. Gryce, in his slow, sarcastic way, "you recollect
that principle of law, do you? If I remember rightly, you have not
always been so punctilious in regarding it, or wishing to have it
regarded, when the question was whether Mr. Clavering was the assassin
or not."

"But he is a man. It does not seem so dreadful to accuse a man of
a crime. But a woman! and such a woman! I cannot listen to it; it is
horrible. Nothing short of absolute confession on her part will ever
make me believe Mary Leavenworth, or any other woman, committed this
deed. It was too cruel, too deliberate, too----"

"Read the criminal records," broke in Mr. Gryce.

But I was obstinate. "I do not care for the criminal records. All
the criminal records in the world would never make me believe Eleanore
perpetrated this crime, nor will I be less generous towards her cousin
Mary Leavenworth is a faulty woman, but not a guilty one."

"You are more lenient in your judgment of her than her cousin was,
it appears."

"I do not understand you," I muttered, feeling a new and yet more
fearful light breaking upon me.

"What! have you forgotten, in the hurry of these late events, the
sentence of accusation which we overheard uttered between these ladies
on the morning of the inquest?"

"No, but----"

"You believed it to have been spoken by Mary to Eleanore?"

"Of course; didn't you?"

Oh, the smile which crossed Mr. Gryce's face! "Scarcely. I left
that baby-play for you. I thought one was enough to follow on that
tack."

The light, the light that was breaking upon me! "And do you mean
to say it was Eleanore who was speaking at that time? That I have been
laboring all these weeks under a terrible mistake, and that you could
have righted me with a word, and did not?"

"Well, as to that, I had a purpose in letting you follow your own
lead for a while. In the first place, I was not sure myself which spoke;
though I had but little doubt about the matter. The voices are, as
you must have noticed, very much alike, while the attitudes in which we
found them upon entering were such as to be explainable equally by the
supposition that Mary was in the act of launching a denunciation, or in
that of repelling one. So that, while I did not hesitate myself as to
the true explanation of the scene before me, I was pleased to find you
accept a contrary one; as in this way both theories had a chance of
being tested; as was right in a case of so much mystery. You
accordingly took up the affair with one idea for your starting-point,
and I with another. You saw every fact as it developed through the
medium of Mary's belief in Eleanore's guilt, and I through the
opposite. And what has been the result? With you, doubt,
contradiction, constant unsettlement, and unwarranted resorts to
strange sources for reconcilement between appearances and your own
convictions; with me, growing assurance, and a belief which each and
every development so far has but served to strengthen and make more
probable."

Again that wild panorama of events, looks, and words swept before
me. Mary's reiterated assertions of her cousin's innocence, Eleanore's
attitude of lofty silence in regard to certain matters which might be
considered by her as pointing towards the murderer.

"Your theory must be the correct one," I finally admitted; "it
was undoubtedly Eleanore who spoke. She believes in Mary's guilt, and I
have been blind, indeed, not to have seen it from the first."

"If Eleanore Leavenworth believes in her cousin's criminality, she
must have some good reasons for doing so."

I was obliged to admit that too. "She did not conceal in her bosom
that telltale key,--found who knows where?--and destroy, or seek
to destroy, it and the letter which introduced her cousin to the public
as the unprincipled destroyer of a trusting man's peace, for nothing."
"No, no."

"And yet you, a stranger, a young man who have never seen Mary
Leavenworth in any other light than that in which her coquettish nature
sought to display itself, presume to say she is innocent, in the face
of the attitude maintained from the first by her cousin!"

"But," said I, in my great unwillingness to accept his conclusions,
"Eleanore Leavenworth is but mortal. She may have been mistaken in her
inferences. She has never stated what her suspicion was founded upon;
nor can we know what basis she has for maintaining the attitude you
speak of. Clavering is as likely as Mary to be the assassin, for all we
know, and possibly for all she knows."

"You seem to be almost superstitious in your belief in Clavering's
guilt."

I recoiled. Was I? Could it be that Mr. Harwell's fanciful
conviction in regard to this man had in any way influenced me to the
detriment of my better judgment?

"And you may be right," Mr. Gryce went on. "I do not pretend to be
set in my notions. Future investigation may succeed in fixing something
upon him; though I hardly think it likely. His behavior as the secret
husband of a woman possessing motives for the commission of a crime has
been too consistent throughout."

"All except his leaving her."

"No exception at all; for he hasn't left her."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that, instead of leaving the country, Mr. Clavering has
only made pretence of doing so. That, in place of dragging himself off
to Europe at her command, he has only changed his lodgings, and can now
be found, not only in a house opposite to hers, but in the window of
that house, where he sits day after day watching who goes in and out of
her front door."

I remembered his parting injunction to me, in that memorable
interview we had in my office, and saw myself compelled to put a new
construction upon it.

"But I was assured at the Hoffman House that he had sailed for
Europe, and myself saw the man who professes to have driven him to the
steamer."

"Just so."

"And Mr. Clavering returned to the city after that?"

"In another carriage, and to another house."

"And you tell me that man is all right?"

"No; I only say there isn't the shadow of evidence against him as
the person who shot Mr. Leavenworth."

Rising, I paced the floor, and for a few minutes silence fell
between us. But the clock, striking, recalled me to the necessity of
the hour, and, turning, I asked Mr. Gryce what he proposed to do now.

"There is but one thing I can do," said he.

"And that is?"

"To go upon such lights as I have, and cause the arrest of Miss
Leavenworth."

I had by this time schooled myself to endurance, and was able to
hear this without uttering an exclamation. But I could not let it pass
without making one effort to combat his determination.

"But," said I, "I do not see what evidence you have, positive
enough in its character, to warrant extreme measures. You have yourself
intimated that the existence of motive is not enough, even though taken
with the fact of the suspected party being in the house at the time of
the murder; and what more have you to urge against Miss Leavenworth?"

"Pardon me. I said 'Miss Leavenworth'; I should have said
'Eleanore Leavenworth.'"

"Eleanore? What! when you and all unite in thinking that she alone
of all these parties to the crime is utterly guiltless of wrong?"

"And yet who is the only one against whom positive testimony of
any kind can be brought."

I could but acknowledge that.

"Mr. Raymond," he remarked very gravely; "the public is becoming
clamorous; something must be done to satisfy it, if only for the
moment. Eleanore has laid herself open to the suspicion of the police,
and must take the consequences of her action. I am sorry; she is a
noble creature; I admire her; but justice is justice, and though I
think her innocent, I shall be forced to put her under arrest
unless----"

"But I cannot be reconciled to it. It is doing an irretrievable
injury to one whose only fault is an undue and mistaken devotion to an
unworthy cousin. If Mary is the----."

"Unless something occurs between now and tomorrow morning," Mr.
Gryce went on, as if I had not spoken.

"To-morrow morning?"

"Yes."

I tried to realize it; tried to face the fact that all my efforts
had been for nothing, and failed.

"Will you not grant me one more day?" I asked in my desperation.

"What to do?"

Alas, I did not know. "To confront Mr. Clavering, and force from
him the truth."

"To make a mess of the whole affair!" he growled. "No, sir; the
die is cast. Eleanore Leavenworth knows the one point which fixes this
crime upon her cousin, and she must tell us that point or suffer the
consequences of her refusal."

I made one more effort.

"But why to-morrow? Having exhausted so much time already in our
inquiries, why not take a little more; especially as the trail is
constantly growing warmer? A little more moling----"

"A little more folderol!" exclaimed Mr. Gryce, losing his temper.
"No, sir; the hour for moling has passed; something decisive has got
to be done now; though, to be sure, if I could find the one missing
link I want----"

"Missing link? What is that?"

"The immediate motive of the tragedy; a bit of proof that Mr.
Leavenworth threatened his niece with his displeasure, or Mr. Clavering
with his revenge, would place me on the vantage-point at once; no
arresting of Eleanore then! No, my lady! I would walk right into your
own gilded parlors, and when you asked me if I had found the murderer
yet, say 'yes,' and show you a bit of paper which would surprise you!
But missing links are not so easily found. This has been moled for, and
moled for, as you are pleased to call our system of investigation, and
totally without result. Nothing but the confession of some one of these
several parties to the crime will give us what we want. I will tell you
what I will do," he suddenly cried. "Miss Leavenworth has desired me
to report to her; she is very anxious for the detection of the
murderer, you know, and offers an immense reward. Well, I will gratify
this desire of hers. The suspicions I have, together with my reasons
for them, will make an interesting disclosure. I should not greatly
wonder if they produced an equally interesting confession."

I could only jump to my feet in my horror.

"At all events, I propose to try it. Eleanore is worth that much
risk any way."

"It will do no good," said I. "If Mary is guilty, she will never
confess it. If not----"

"She will tell us who is."

"Not if it is Clavering, her husband."

"Yes; even if it is Clavering, her husband. She has not the
devotion of Eleanore."

That I could but acknowledge. She would hide no keys for the sake of
shielding another: no, if Mary were accused, she would speak. The
future opening before us looked sombre enough. And yet when, in a short
time from that, I found myself alone in a busy street, the thought that
Eleanore was free rose above all others, filling and moving me till my
walk home in the rain that day has become a marked memory of my life.
It was only with nightfall that I began to realize the truly critical
position in which Mary stood if Mr. Gryce's theory was correct. But,
once seized with this thought, nothing could drive it from my mind.
Shrink as I would, it was ever before me, haunting me with the direst
forebodings. Nor, though I retired early, could I succeed in getting
either sleep or rest. All night I tossed on my pillow, saying over to
myself with dreary iteration: "Something must happen, something will
happen, to prevent Mr. Gryce doing this dreadful thing." Then I would
start up and ask what could happen; and my mind would run over various
contingencies, such as,--Mr. Clavering might confess; Hannah might
come back; Mary herself wake up to her position and speak the word I
had more than once seen trembling on her lips. But further thought
showed me how unlikely any of these things were to happen, and it was
with a brain utterly exhausted that I fell asleep in the early dawn, to
dream I saw Mary standing above Mr. Gryce with a pistol in her hand. I
was awakened from this pleasing vision by a heavy knock at the door.
Hastily rising, I asked who was there. The answer came in the shape of
an envelope thrust under the door. Raising it, I found it to be a note.
It was from Mr. Gryce, and ran thus:

"Come at once; Hannah Chester is found."

"Hannah found?"

"So we have reason to think."

When? where? by whom?"

"Sit down, and I will tell you."

Drawing up a chair in a flurry of hope and fear, I sat down by Mr.
Gryce's side.

"She is not in the cupboard," that person dryly assured me, noting
without doubt how my eyes went travelling about the room in my anxiety
and impatience. "We are not absolutely sure that she is anywhere. But
word has come to us that a girl's face believed to be Hannah's has been
seen at the upper window of a certain house in--don't start-- R----,
where a year ago she was in the habit of visiting while at the hotel
with the Misses Leavenworth. Now, as it has already been determined
that she left New York the night of the murder, by the ------ ----
Railroad, though for what point we have been unable to ascertain, we
consider the matter worth inquiring into."

"But--"

"If she is there," resumed Mr. Gryce, "she is secreted; kept very
close. No one except the informant has ever seen her, nor is there any
suspicion among the neighbors of her being in town."

"Hannah secreted at a certain house in R----? Whose house?"

Mr. Gryce honored me with one of his grimmest smiles. "The name of
the lady she's with is given in the communication as Belden; Mrs. Amy
Belden."

"Amy Belden! the name found written on a torn envelope by Mr.
Clavering's servant girl in London?"

"Yes."

I made no attempt to conceal my satisfaction. "Then we are upon
the verge of some discovery; Providence has interfered, and Eleanore
will be saved! But when did you get this word?"

"Last night, or rather this morning; Q brought it."

"It was a message, then, to Q?"

"Yes, the result of his molings while in R----, I suppose."

"Whom was it signed by?"

"A respectable tinsmith who lives next door to Mrs. B."

"And is this the first you knew of an Amy Belden living in R----?"

"Yes."

"Widow or wife?"

"Don't know; don't know anything about her but her name."

"But you have already sent Q to make inquiries?"

"No; the affair is a little too serious for him to manage alone. He
is not equal to great occasions, and might fail just for the lack of a
keen mind to direct him."

"In short----"

"I wish you to go. Since I cannot be there myself, I know of no one
else sufficiently up in the affair to conduct it to a successful issue.
You see, it is not enough to find and identify the girl. The present
condition of things demands that the arrest of so important a witness
should be kept secret. Now, for a man to walk into a strange house in a
distant village, find a girl who is secreted there, frighten her,
cajole her, force her, as the case may be, from her hiding-place to a
detective's office in New York, and all without the knowledge of the
next-door neighbor, if possible, requires judgment, brains, genius.
Then the woman who conceals her I She must have her reasons for doing
so; and they must be known. Altogether, the affair is a delicate one.
Do you think you can manage it?"

"I should at least like to try."

Mr. Gryce settled himself on the sofa. "To think what pleasure I am
losing on your account!" he grumbled, gazing reproachfully at his
helpless limbs. "But to business. How soon can you start?"

"Immediately."

"Good! a train leaves the depot at 12.15. Take that. Once in
R----, it will be for you to decide upon the means of making Mrs.
Belden's acquaintance without arousing her suspicions. Q, who will
follow you, will hold himself in readiness to render you any assistance
you may require. Only this thing is to be understood: as he will
doubtless go in disguise, you are not to recognize him, much less
interfere with him and his plans, till he gives you leave to do so, by
some preconcerted signal. You are to work in your way, and he in his,
till circumstances seem to call for mutual support and countenance. I
cannot even say whether you will see him or not; he may find it
necessary to Keep um. of the way; but you may be sure of one thing,
that he will know where you are, and that the display of, well, let us
say a red silk handkerchief--have you such a thing?"

"I will get one."

"Will be regarded by him as a sign that you desire his presence or
assistance, whether it be shown about your person or at the window of
your room."

"And these are all the instructions you can give me?" I said, as
he paused.

"Yes, I don't know of anything else. You must depend largely upon
your own discretion, and the exigencies of the moment. I cannot tell
you now what to do. Your own wit will be the best guide. Only, if
possible, let me either hear from you or see you by to-morrow at this
time."

And he handed me a cipher in case I should wish to telegraph.



BOOK III. HANNAH



XXVII. AMY BELDEN

    "A merrier man
    Within the limits of becoming mirth,
    I never spent an hour's talk withal."
        --Love's Labour's Last.

I HAD a client in R---- by the name of Monell; and it was from him I
had planned to learn the best way of approaching Mrs. Belden. When,
therefore, I was so fortunate as to meet him, almost on my arrival,
driving on the long road behind his famous trotter Alfred, I regarded
the encounter as a most auspicious beginning of a very doubtful
enterprise.

"Well, and how goes the day?" was his exclamation as, the first
greetings passed, we drove rapidly into town.

"Your part in it goes pretty smoothly," I returned; and thinking I
could never hope to win his attention to my own affairs till I had
satisfied him in regard to his, I told him all I could concerning the
law-suit then pending; a subject so prolific of question and answer,
that we had driven twice round the town before he remembered he had a
letter to post. As it was an important one, admitting of no delay, we
hasted at once to the post-office, where he went in, leaving me outside
to watch the rather meagre stream of goers and comers who at that time
of day make the post-office of a country town their place of
rendezvous. Among these, for some reason, I especially noted one
middle-aged woman; why, I cannot say; her appearance was anything but
remarkable. And yet when she came out, with two letters in her hand,
one in a large and one in might be induced to give a bed to a friend of
mine who is very anxious to be near the post-office on account of a
business telegram he is expecting, and which when it comes will demand
his immediate attention." And Mr. Monell gave me a sly wink of his eye,
little imagining how near the mark he had struck.

"You need not say that. Tell her I have a peculiar dislike to
sleeping in a public house, and that you know of no one better fitted
to accommodate me, for the short time I desire to be in town, than
herself."

"And what will be said of my hospitality in allowing you under
these circumstances to remain in any other house than my own?"

"I don't know; very hard things, no doubt; but I guess your
hospitality can stand it."

"Well, if you persist, we will see what can be done." And driving
up to a neat white cottage of homely, but sufficiently attractive
appearance, he stopped.

"This is her house," said he, jumping to the ground; "let's go in
and see what we can do."

Glancing up at the windows, which were all closed save the two on
the veranda overlooking the street, I thought to myself, "If she has
anybody in hiding here, whose presence in the house she desires to keep
secret, it is folly to hope she will take me in, however well
recommended I may come." But, yielding to the example of my friend, I
alighted in my turn and followed him up the short, grass-bordered walk
to the front door.

"As she has no servant, she will come to the door herself, so be
ready," he remarked as he knocked.

I had barely time to observe that the curtains to the window at my
left suddenly dropped, when a hasty step made itself heard within, and
a quick hand drew open the door; and I saw before me the woman whom I
had observed at the post-office, and whose action with the letters had
struck me as peculiar. I recognized her at first glance, though she was
differently dressed, and had evidently passed through some worry or
excitement that had altered the expression of her countenance, and made
her manner what it was not at that time, strained and a trifle
uncertain. But I saw no reason for thinking she remembered me. On the
contrary, the look she directed towards me had nothing but inquiry in
it, and when Mr. Monell pushed me forward with the remark, "A friend
of mine; in fact my lawyer from New York," she dropped a hurried
old-fashioned curtsey whose only expression vas a manifest desire to
appear sensible of the honor conferred upon her, through the mist of a
certain trouble that confused everything about her,

"We have come to ask a favor, Mrs. Belden; but may we not come in?
"said my client in a round, hearty voice well calculated to recall a
person's thoughts into their proper channel. "I have heard many times
of your cosy home, and am glad of this opportunity of seeing it." And
with a blind disregard to the look of surprised resistance with which
she met his advance, he stepped gallantly into the little room whose
cheery red carpet and bright picture-hung walls showed invitingly
through the half-open door at our left.

Finding her premises thus invaded by a sort of French _coup
d'etat,_ Mrs. Belden made the best of the situation, and pressing me
to enter also, devoted herself to hospitality. As for Mr. Monell, he
quite blossomed out in his endeavors to make himself agreeable; so
much so, that I shortly found myself laughing at his sallies, though my
heart was full of anxiety lest, after all, our efforts should fail of
the success they certainly merited. Meanwhile, Mrs. Belden softened
more and more, joining in the conversation with an ease hardly to be
expected from one in her humble circumstances. Indeed, I soon saw she
was no common woman. There was a refinement in her speech and manner,
which, combined with her motherly presence and gentle air, was very
pleasing. The last woman in the world to suspect of any underhanded
proceeding, if she had not shown a peculiar hesitation when Mr. Monell
broached the subject of my entertainment there.

"I don't know, sir; I would be glad, but," and she turned a very
scrutinizing look upon me, "the fact is, I have not taken lodgers of
late, and I have got out of the way of the whole thing, and am afraid I
cannot make him comfortable. In short, you will have to excuse me."

"But we can't," returned Mr. Monell. "What, entice a fellow into a
room like this"--and he cast a hearty admiring glance round the
apartment which, for all its simplicity, both its warm coloring and
general air of cosiness amply merited, "and then turn a cold shoulder
upon him when he humbly entreats the honor of staying a single night in
the enjoyment of its attractions? No, no, Mrs. Belden; I know you too
well for that. Lazarus himself couldn't come to your door and be turned
away; much less a good-hearted, clever-headed young gentleman like my
friend here."

"You are very good," she began, an almost weak love of praise
showing itself for a moment in her eyes; "but I have no room prepared.
I have been house-cleaning, and everything is topsy-turvy. Mrs. Wright.
now, over the way----"

"My young friend is going to stop here," Mr. Mouell broke in, with
frank positiveness. "If I cannot have him at my own house,--and for
certain reasons it is not advisable,--I shall at least have the
satisfaction of knowing he is in the charge of the best housekeeper in
R----."

"Yes," I put in, but without too great a show of interest; "I
should be sorry, once introduced here, to be obliged to go elsewhere."

The troubled eye wavered away from us to the door.

"I was never called inhospitable," she commenced; "but everything
in such disorder. What time would you like to come?"

"I was in hopes I might remain now," I replied; "I have some
letters to write, and ask nothing better than for leave to sit here and
write them."

At the word letters I saw her hand go to her pocket in a movement
which must have been involuntary, for her countenance did not change,
and she made the quick reply:

"Well, you may. If you can put up with such poor accommodations as
I can offer, it shall not be said I refused you what Mr. Monell is
pleased to call a favor."

And, complete in her reception as she had been in her resistance,
she gave us a pleasant smile, and, ignoring my thanks, bustled out with
Mr. Monell to the buggy, where she received my bag and what was,
doubtless, more to her taste, the compliments he was now more than ever
ready to bestow upon her.

"I will see that a room is got ready for you in a very short space
of time," she said, upon re-entering. "Meanwhile, make yourself at
home here; and if you wish to write, why I think you will find
everything for the purpose in these drawers." And wheeling up a table
to the easy chair in which I sat, she pointed to the small compartments
beneath, with an air of such manifest desire to have me make use of
anything and everything she had, that I found myself wondering over my
position with a sort of startled embarrassment that was not remote from
shame.

"Thank you; I have materials of my own," said I, and hastened to
open my bag and bring out the writing-case, which I always carried with
me.

"Then I will leave you," said she; and with a quick bend and a
short, hurried look out of the window, she hastily quitted the room.

I could hear her steps cross the hall, go up two or three stairs,
pause, go up the rest of the flight, pause again, and then pass on. I
was left on the first floor alone.



XXVIII. A WEIRD EXPERIENCE

    "Flat burglary an ever was committed."
        --Much Ado about Nothing.

THE first thing I did was to inspect with greater care the room in
which I sat.

It was a pleasant apartment, as I have already said; square, sunny,
and well furnished. On the floor was a crimson carpet, on the walls
several pictures, at the windows, cheerful curtains of white,
tastefully ornamented with ferns and autumn leaves; in one corner an
old melodeon, and in the centre of the room a table draped with a
bright cloth, on which were various little knick-knacks which, without
being rich or expensive, were both pretty and, to a certain extent,
ornamental. But it was not these things, which I had seen repeated in
many other country homes, that especially attracted my attention, or
drew me forward in the slow march which I now undertook around the
room. It was the something underlying all these, the evidences which I
found, or sought to find, not only in the general aspect of the room,
but in each trivial object I encountered, of the character,
disposition, and history of the woman with whom I now had to deal. It
was for this reason I studied the daguerreotypes on the mantel-piece,
the books on the shelf, and the music on the rack; for this and the
still further purpose of noting if any indications were to be found of
there being in the house any such person as Hannah.

First then, for the little library, which I was pleased to see
occupied one corner of the room. Composed of a few well-chosen books,
poetical, historical, and narrative, it was of itself sufficient to
account for the evidences of latent culture observable in Mrs. Belden's
conversation. Taking out a well-worn copy of _Byron,_ I opened it.
There were many passages marked, and replacing the book with a mental
comment upon her evident impressibility to the softer emotions, I
turned towards the melodeon fronting me from the opposite wall. It was
closed, but on its neatly-covered top lay one or two hymn-books, a
basket of russet apples, and a piece of half-completed knitting work.

I took up the latter, but was forced to lay it down again without a
notion for what it was intended. Proceeding, I next stopped before a
window opening upon the small yard that ran about the house, and
separated it from the one adjoining. The scene without failed to
attract me, but the window itself drew my attention, for, written with
a diamond point on one of the panes, I perceived a row of letters
which, as nearly as I could make out, were meant for some word or
words, but which utterly failed in sense or apparent connection.
Passing it by as the work of some school-girl, I glanced down at the
work-basket standing on a table at my side. It was full of various
kinds of work, among which I spied a pair of stockings, which were much
too small, as well as in too great a state of disrepair, to belong to
Mrs. Belden; and drawing them carefully out, I examined them for any
name on them. Do not start when I say I saw the letter H plainly marked
upon them. Thrusting them back, I drew a deep breath of relief, gazing,
as I did so, out of the window, when those letters again attracted my
attention.

What could they mean? Idly I began to read them backward, when--
But try for yourself, reader, and judge of my surprise! Elate at the
discovery thus made, I sat down to write my letters. I had barely
finished them, when Mrs. Belden came in with the announcement that
supper was ready. "As for your room," said she, "I have prepared my
own room for your use, thinking you would like to remain on the first
floor." And, throwing open a door at my side, she displayed a
small, but comfortable room, in which I could dimly see a bed, an
immense bureau, and a shadowy looking-glass in a dark, old-fashioned
frame.

"I live in very primitive fashion," she resumed, leading the way
into the dining-room; "but I mean to be comfortable and make others
so."

"I should say you amply succeeded," I rejoined, with an
appreciative glance at her well-spread board.

She smiled, and I felt I had paved the way to her good graces in a
way that would yet redound to my advantage.

Shall I ever forget that supper! its dainties, its pleasant
freedom, its mysterious, pervading atmosphere of unreality: and the
constant sense which every bountiful dish she pressed upon me brought
of the shame of eating this woman's food with such feelings of
suspicion in my heart! Shall I ever forget the emotion I experienced
when I first perceived she had something on her mind, which she longed,
yet hesitated, to give utterance to! Or how she started when a cat
jumped from the sloping roof of the kitchen on to the grass-plot at the
back of the house; or how my heart throbbed when I heard, or thought I
heard, a board creak overhead! We were in a long and narrow room which
seemed, curiously enough, to run crosswise of the house, opening on one
side into the parlor, and on the other into the small bedroom, which
had been allotted to my use.

"You live in this house alone, without fear?" I asked, as Mrs.
Belden, contrary to my desire, put another bit of cold chicken on my
plate. "Have you no marauders in this town: no tramps, of whom a
solitary woman like you might reasonably be afraid?"

"No one will hurt me," said she; "and no one ever came here for
food or shelter but got it."

"I should think, then, that living as you do, upon a railroad, you
would be constantly overrun with worthless beings whose only trade is
to take all they can get without giving a return."

"I cannot turn them away. It is the only luxury I have: to feed the
poor."

"But the idle, restless ones, who neither will work, nor let others
work----"

"Are still the poor."

Mentally remarking, here is the woman to shield an unfortunate who
has somehow become entangled in the meshes of a great crime, I drew
back from the table As I did so, the thought crossed me that, in case
there was any such person in the house as Hannah, she would take the
opportunity of going up-stairs with something for her to eat; and that
she might not feel hampered by my presence, I stepped out on the
veranda with my cigar.

While smoking it, I looked about for Q. I felt that the least token
of his presence in town would be very encouraging at this time. But it
seemed I was not to be afforded even that small satisfaction. If _Q_
was anywhere near, he was lying very low.

Once again seated with Mrs. Belden (who I know came down-stairs with
an empty plate, for going into the kitchen for a drink, I caught her in
the act of setting it down on the table), I made up my mind to wait a
reasonable length of time for what she had to say; and then, if she did
not speak, make an endeavor on my own part to surprise her secret.

But her avowal was nearer and of a different nature from what I
expected, and brought its own train of consequences with it.

"You are a lawyer, I believe," she began, taking down her knitting
work, with a forced display of industry.

"Yes," I said; "that is my profession."

She remained for a moment silent, creating great havoc in her work I
am sure, from the glance of surprise and vexation she afterwards threw
it. Then, in a hesitating voice, remarked:

"Perhaps you may be willing, then, to give me some advice. The
truth is, I am in a very curious predicament; one from which I don't
know how to escape, and yet which demands immediate action. I should
like to tell you about it; may I?"

"You may; I shall be only too happy to give you any advice in my
power."

She drew in her breath with a sort of vague relief, though her
forehead did not lose its frown.

"It can all be said in a few words. I have in my possession a
package of papers which were intrusted to me by two ladies, with the
understanding that I should neither return nor destroy them without the
full cognizance and expressed desire of both parties, given in person
or writing. That they were to remain in my hands till then, and that
nothing or nobody should extort them from me."

"That is easily understood," said I; for she stopped.

"But, now comes word from one of the ladies, the one, too, most
interested in the matter, that, for certain reasons, the immediate
destruction of those papers is necessary to her peace and safety."

"And do you want to know what your duty is in this case?"

"Yes," she tremulously replied.

I rose. I could not help it: a flood of conjectures rushing in
tumult over me.

"It is to hold on to the papers like grim death till released from
your guardianship by the combined wish of both parties.,"

"Is that your opinion as a lawyer?"

"Yes, and as a man. Once pledged in that way, you have no choice.
It would be a betrayal of trust to yield to the solicitations of one
party what you have undertaken to return to both. The fact that grief
or loss might follow your retention of these papers does not release
you from your bond. You have nothing to do with that; besides, you are
by no means sure that the representations of the so-called interested
party are true. You might be doing a greater wrong, by destroying in
this way, what is manifestly considered of value to them both, than by
preserving the papers intact, according to compact."

"But the circumstances? Circumstances alter cases; and in short,
it seems to me that the wishes of the one most interested ought to be
regarded, especially as there is an estrangement between these ladies
which may hinder the other's consent from ever being obtained."

"No," said I; "two wrongs never make a right; nor are we at
liberty to do an act of justice at the expense of an injustice. The
papers must be preserved, Mrs. Belden."

Her head sank very despondingly; evidently it had been her wish to
please the interested party. "Law is very hard," she said; "very
hard."

"This is not only law, but plain duty," I remarked. "Suppose a
case different; suppose the honor and happiness of the other party
depended upon the preservation of the papers; where would your duty be
then?"

"But----"

"A contract is a contract," said I, "and cannot be tampered with.
Having accepted the trust and given your word, you are obliged to
fulfil, to the letter, all its conditions. It would be a breach of
trust for you to return or destroy the papers without the mutual
consent necessary."

An expression of great gloom settled slowly over her features. "I
suppose you are right," said she, and became silent.

Watching her, I thought to myself, "If I were Mr. Gryce, or even Q,
I would never leave this seat till I had probed this matter to the
bottom, learned the names of the parties concerned, and where those
precious papers are hidden, which she declares to be of so much
importance." But being neither, I could only keep her talking upon the
subject until she should let fall some word that might serve as a guide
to my further enlightenment; I therefore turned, with the intention of
asking her some question, when my attention was attracted by the figure
of a woman coming out of the back-door of the neighboring house, who,
for general dilapidation and uncouthness of bearing, was a perfect type
of the style of tramp of whom we had been talking at the supper table.
Gnawing a crust which she threw away as she reached the street, she
trudged down the path, her scanty dress, piteous in its rags and soil,
flapping in the keen spring wind, and revealing ragged shoes red with
the mud of the highway.

"There is a customer that may interest you," said I.

Mrs. Belden seemed to awake from a trance. Rising slowly, she looked
out, and with a rapidly softening gaze surveyed the forlorn creature
before her.

"Poor thing!" she muttered; "but I cannot do much for her
to-night. A good supper is all I can give her."

And, going to the front door, she bade her step round the house to
the kitchen, where, in another moment, I heard the rough creature's
voice rise in one long "Bless you!" that could only have been
produced by the setting before her of the good things with which Mrs.
Belden's larder seemed teeming.

But supper was not all she wanted. After a decent length of time,
employed as I should judge in mastication, I heard her voice rise once
more in a plea for shelter.

"The barn, ma'am, or the wood-house. Any place where I can lie out
of the wind." And she commenced a long tale of want and disease, so
piteous to hear that I was not at all surprised when Mrs. Belden told
me, upon re-entering, that she had consented, notwithstanding her
previous determination, to allow the woman to lie before the kitchen
fire for the night.

"She has such an honest eye," said she; "and charity is my only
luxury."

The interruption of this incident effectually broke up our
conversation. Mrs. Belden went up-stairs, and for some time I was left
alone to ponder over what I had heard, and determine upon my future
course of action. I had just reached the conclusion that she would be
fully as liable to be carried away by her feelings to the destruction
of the papers in her charge, as to be governed by the rules of equity I
had laid down to her, when I heard her stealthily descend the stairs
and go out by the front door. Distrustful of her intentions, I took up
my hat and hastily followed her. She was on her way down the main
street, and my first thought was, that she was bound for some
neighbor's house or perhaps for the hotel itself; but the settled swing
into which she soon altered her restless pace satisfied me that she had
some distant goal in prospect; and before long I found myself passing
the hotel with its appurtenances, even the little schoolhouse, that was
the last building at this end of the village, and stepping out into the
country beyond. What could it mean?

But still her fluttering figure hasted on, the outlines of her form,
with its close shawl and neat bonnet, growing fainter and fainter in
the now settled darkness of an April night; and still I followed,
walking on the turf at the side of the road lest she should hear my
footsteps and look round. At last we reached a bridge. Over this I
could hear her pass, and then every sound ceased. She had paused, and
was evidently listening. It would not do for me to pause too, so
gathering myself into as awkward a shape as possible, I sauntered by
her down the road, but arrived at a certain point, stopped, and began
retracing my steps with a sharp lookout for her advancing figure, till
I had arrived once more at the bridge. She was not there.

Convinced now that she had discovered my motive for being in her
house and, by leading me from it, had undertaken to supply Hannah with
an opportunity for escape, I was about to hasten back to the charge I
had so incautiously left, when a strange sound heard at my left
arrested me. It came from the banks of the puny stream which ran under
the bridge, and was like the creaking of an old door on worn-out hinges.

Leaping the fence, I made my way as best I could down the sloping
field in the direction from which the sound came. It was quite dark,
and my progress was slow; so much so, that I began to fear I had
ventured upon a wild-goose chase, when an unexpected streak of
lightning shot across the sky, and by its glare I saw before me what
seemed, in the momentary glimpse I had of it, an old barn. From the
rush of waters near at hand, I judged it to be somewhere on the edge of
the stream, and consequently hesitated to advance, when I heard the
sound of heavy breathing near me, followed by a stir as of some one
feeling his way over a pile of loose boards; and presently, while I
stood there, a faint blue light flashed up from the interior of the
barn, and I saw, through the tumbled-down door that faced me, the form
of Mrs. Belden standing with a lighted match in her hand, gazing round
on the four walls that encompassed her. Hardly daring to breathe, lest
I should alarm her, I watched her while she turned and peered at the
roof above her, which was so old as to be more than half open to the
sky, at the flooring beneath, which was in a state of equal
dilapidation, and finally at a small tin box which she drew from under
her shawl and laid on the ground at her feet. The sight of that box at
once satisfied me as to the nature of her errand. She was going to hide
what she dared not destroy; and, relieved upon this point, I was about
to take a step forward when the match went out in her hand. While she
was engaged in lighting another, I considered that perhaps it would be
better for me not to arouse her apprehensions by accosting her at this
time, and thus endanger the success of my main scheme; but to wait till
she was gone, before I endeavored to secure the box. Accordingly I
edged my way up to the side of the barn and waited till she should
leave it, knowing that if I attempted to peer in at the door, I ran
great risk of being seen, owing to the frequent streaks of lightning
which now flashed about us on every side. Minute after minute went by,
with its weird alternations of heavy darkness and sudden glare; and
still she did not come. At last, just as I was about to start
impatiently from my hiding-place, she reappeared, and began to withdraw
with faltering steps toward the bridge. When I thought her quite out of
hearing, I stole from my retreat and entered the barn. It was of course
as dark as Erebus, but thanks to being a smoker I was as well provided
with matches as she had been, and having struck one, I held it up; but
the light it gave was very feeble, and as I did not know just where to
look, it went out before I had obtained more than a cursory glimpse of
the spot where I was. I thereupon lit another; but though I confined
my attention to one place, namely, the floor at my feet, it too went
out before I could conjecture by means of any sign seen there where she
had hidden the box. I now for the first time realized the difficulty
before me. She had probably made up her mind, before she left home, in
just what portion of this old barn she would conceal her treasure; but
I had nothing to guide me: I could only waste matches. And I did waste
them. A dozen had been lit and extinguished before I was so much as
sure the box was not under a pile of debris that lay in one corner, and
I had taken the last in my hand before I became aware that one of the
broken boards of the floor was pushed a little out of its proper
position. One match! and that board was to be raised, the space beneath
examined, and the box, if there, lifted safely out. I concluded not to
waste my resources, so kneeling down in the darkness, I groped for the
board, tried it, and found it to be loose. Wrenching at it with all my
strength, I tore it free and cast it aside; then lighting my match
looked into the hole thus made. Something, I could not tell what, stone
or box, met my eye, but while I reached for it, the match flew out of
my hand. Deploring my carelessness, but determined at all hazards to
secure what I had seen, I dived down deep into the hole, and in another
moment had the object of my curiosity in my hands. It was the box!

Satisfied at this result of my efforts, I turned to depart, my one
wish now being to arrive home before Mrs. Belden. Was this possible?
She had several minutes the start of me; I would have to pass her on
the road, and in so doing might be recognized. Was the end worth the
risk? I decided that it was.

Regaining the highway, I started at a brisk pace. For some little
distance I kept it up, neither overtaking nor meeting any one. But
suddenly, at a turn in the road, I came unexpectedly upon Mrs. Belden,
standing in the middle of the path, looking back. Somewhat
disconcerted, I hastened swiftly by her, expecting her to make some
effort to stop me. But she let me pass without a word. Indeed, I doubt
now if she even saw or heard me. Astonished at this treatment, and
still more surprised that she made no attempt to follow me, I looked
back, when I saw what enchained her to the spot, and made her so
unmindful of my presence. The barn behind us was on fire!

Instantly I realized it was the work of my hands; I had dropped a
half-extinguished match, and it had fallen upon some inflammable
substance.

Aghast at the sight, I paused in my turn, and stood staring. Higher
and higher the red flames mounted, brighter and brighter glowed the
clouds above, the stream beneath; and in the fascination of watching
it all, I forgot Mrs. Belden. But a short, agitated gasp in my vicinity
soon recalled her presence to my mind, and drawing nearer, I heard her
exclaim like a person speaking in a dream, "Well, I didn't mean to do
it"; then lower, and with a certain satisfaction in her tone, "But
it's all right, any way; the thing is lost now for good, and Mary will
be satisfied without any one being to blame."

I did not linger to hear more; if this was the conclusion she had
come to, she would not wait there long, especially as the sound of
distant shouts and running feet announced that a crowd of village boys
was on its way to the scene of the conflagration.

The first thing I did, upon my arrival at the house, was to assure
myself that no evil effects had followed my inconsiderate desertion of
it to the mercies of the tramp she had taken in; the next to retire to
my room, and take a peep at the box. I found it to be a neat tin
coffer, fastened with a lock. Satisfied from its weight that it
contained nothing heavier than the papers of which Mrs. Belden had
spoken, I hid it under the bed and returned to the sitting-room. I had
barely taken a seat and lifted a book when Mrs. Belden came in.

"Well!" cried she, taking off her bonnet and revealing a face much
flushed with exercise, but greatly relieved in expression; "this _u_
a night! It lightens, and there is a fire somewhere down street, and
altogether it is perfectly dreadful out. I hope you have not been
lonesome," she continued, with a keen searching of my face which I bore
in the best way I could. "I had an errand to attend to, but didn't
expect to stay so long."

I returned some nonchalant reply, and she hastened from the room to
fasten up the house.

I waited, but she did not come back; fearful, perhaps, of betraying
herself, she had retired to her own apartment, leaving me to take care
of myself as best I might. I own that I was rather relieved at this.
The fact is, I did not feel equal to any more excitement that night,
and was glad to put off further action until the next day. As soon,
then, as the storm was over, I myself went to bed, and, after several
ineffectual efforts, succeeded in getting asleep.



XXIX. THE MISSING WITNESS

    "I fled and cried out death."
        --Milton.

"MR RAYMOND!"

The voice was low and searching; it reached me in my dreams, waked
me, and caused me to look up. Morning had begun to break, and by its
light I saw, standing in the open door leading into the dining-room,
the forlorn figure of the tramp who had been admitted into the house
the night before. Angry and perplexed, I was about to bid her be gone,
when, to my great surprise, she pulled out a red handkerchief from her
pocket, and I recognized Q.

"Read that," said he, hastily advancing and putting a slip of
paper into my hand. And, without another word or look, left the room,
closing the door behind him.

Rising in considerable agitation, I took it to the window, and by
the rapidly increasing light, succeeded in making out the rudely
scrawled lines as follows:

"She is here; I have seen her; in the room marked with a cross in
the accompanying plan. Wait till eight o'clock, then go up. I will
contrive some means of getting Mrs. B---- out of the house."

Sketched below this was the following plan of the upper floor:

Hannah, then, was in the small back room over the dining-room, and I
had not been deceived in thinking I had heard steps overhead, the
evening before. Greatly relieved, and yet at the same time much moved
at the near prospect of being brought face to face with one who we had
every reason to believe was acquainted with the dreadful secret
involved in the Leavenworth murder, I lay down once more, and
endeavored to catch another hour's rest. But I soon gave up the effort
in despair, and contented myself with listening to the sounds of
awakening life which now began to make themselves heard in the house
and neighborhood.

As Q had closed the door after him, I could only faintly hear Mrs.
Belden when she came down-stairs. But the short, surprised exclamation
which she uttered upon reaching the kitchen and finding the tramp gone
and the back-door wide open, came plainly enough to my ears, and for a
moment I was not sure but that Q had made a mistake in thus leaving so
unceremoniously. But he had not studied Mrs. Belden's character in
vain. As she came, in the course of her preparations for breakfast,
into the room adjoining mine, I could hear her murmur to herself:

"Poor thing! She has lived so long in the fields and at the
roadside, she finds it unnatural to be cooped up in the house all
night."

The trial of that breakfast! The effort to eat and appear
unconcerned, to chat and make no mistake,--may I never be called upon
to go through such another! But at last it was over, and I was left
free to await in my own room the time for the dreaded though
much-to-be-desired interview. Slowly the minutes passed; eight o'clock
struck, when, just as the last vibration ceased, there came a loud
knock at the backdoor, and a little boy burst into the kitchen, crying
at the top of his voice: "Papa's got a fit! Oh, Mrs. Belden! papa's
got a fit; do come!"

Rising, as was natural, I hastened towards the kitchen, meeting Mrs.
Belden's anxious face in the doorway.

"A poor wood-chopper down the street has fallen in a fit," she
said. "Will you please watch over the house while I see what I can do
for him? I won't be absent any longer than I can help."

And almost without waiting for my reply, she caught up a shawl,
threw it over her head, and followed the urchin, who was in a state of
great excitement, out into the street.

Instantly the silence of death seemed to fill the house, and a dread
the greatest I had ever experienced settled upon me. To leave the
kitchen, go up those stairs, and confront that girl seemed for the
moment beyond my power; but, once on the stair, I found myself
relieved from the especial dread which had overwhelmed me, and
possessed, instead, of a sort of combative curiosity that led me to
throw open the door which I saw at the top with a certain fierceness
new to my nature, and not altogether suitable, perhaps, to the occasion.

I found myself in a large bedroom, evidently the one occupied by
Mrs. Belden the night before. Barely stopping to note certain evidences
of her having passed a restless night, I passed on to the door leading
into the room marked with a cross in the plan drawn for me by Q. It was
a rough affair, made of pine boards rudely painted. Pausing before it,
I listened. All was still. Raising the latch, I endeavored to enter.
The door was locked. Pausing again, I bent my ear to the keyhole. Not a
sound came from within; the grave itself could not have been stiller.
Awe-struck and irresolute, I looked about me and questioned what I had
best do. Suddenly I remembered that, in the plan Q had given me, I had
seen intimation of another door leading into this same room from the
one on the opposite side of the hall. Going hastily around to it, I
tried it with my hand. But it was as fast as the other. Convinced at
last that nothing was left me but force, I spoke for the first time,
and, calling the girl by name, commanded her to open the door.
Receiving no response, I said aloud with an accent of severity:

"Hannah Chester, you are discovered; if you do not open the door,
we shall be obliged to break it down; save us the trouble, then, and
open immediately."

Still no reply.

Going back a step, I threw my whole weight against the door. It
creaked ominously, but still resisted.

Stopping only long enough to be sure no movement had taken place
within, I pressed against it once more, this time with all my strength,
when it flew from its hinges, and I fell forward into a room so
stifling, chill, and dark that I paused for a moment to collect my
scattered senses before venturing to look around me. It was well I did
so. In another moment, the pallor and fixity of the pretty Irish face
staring upon me from amidst the tumbled clothes of a bed, drawn up
against the wall at my side, struck me with so deathlike a chill that,
had it not been for that one instant of preparation, I should have been
seriously dismayed. As it was, I could not prevent a feeling of sickly
apprehension from seizing me as I turned towards the silent figure
stretched so near, and observed with what marble-like repose it lay
beneath the patchwork quilt drawn across it, asking myself if sleep
could be indeed so like death in its appearance. For that it was a
sleeping woman I beheld, I did not seriously doubt. There were too many
evidences of careless life in the room for any other inference. The
clothes, left just as she had stepped from them in a circle on the
floor; the liberal plate of food placed in waiting for her on the
chair by the door,

--food amongst which I recognized, even in this casual glance, the
same dish which we had had for breakfast

--all and everything in the room spoke of robust life and reckless
belief in the morrow.

And yet so white was the brow turned up to the bare beams of the
unfinished wall above her, so glassy the look of the half-opened eyes,
so motionless the arm lying half under, half over, the edge of the
coverlid that it was impossible not to shrink from contact with a
creature so sunk in unconsciousness. But contact seemed to be
necessary; any cry which I could raise at that moment would be
ineffectual enough to pierce those dull ears. Nerving myself,
therefore, I stooped and lifted the hand which lay with its telltale
scar mockingly uppermost, intending to speak, call, do something,
anything, to arouse her. But at the first touch of her hand on mine an
unspeakable horror thrilled me. It was not only icy cold, but stiff.
Dropping it in my agitation, I started back and again surveyed the
face. Great God! when did life ever look like that? What sleep ever
wore such pallid hues, such accusing fixedness? Bending once more I
listened at the lips. Not a breath, nor a stir. Shocked to the core of
my being, I made one final effort. Tearing down the clothes, I laid my
hand upon her heart. It was pulseless as stone.



XXX. BURNED PAPER

    "I could have better spared a better man."
        --Henry IV.

I DO not think I called immediately for help. The awful shock of
this discovery, coming as it did at the very moment life and hope were
strongest within me; the sudden downfall which it brought of all the
plans based upon this woman's expected testimony; and, worst of all,
the dread coincidence between this sudden death and the exigency in
which the guilty party, whoever it was, was supposed to be at that hour
were much too appalling for instant action. I could only stand and
stare at the quiet face before me, smiling in its peaceful rest as if
death were pleasanter than we think, and marvel over the providence
which had brought us renewed fear instead of relief, complication
instead of enlightenment, disappointment instead of realization. For
eloquent as is death, even on the faces of those unknown and unloved by
us, the causes and consequences of this one were much too important to
allow the mind to dwell upon the pathos of the scene itself. Hannah,
the girl, was lost in Hannah the witness.

But gradually, as I gazed, the look of expectation which I perceived
hovering about the wistful mouth and half-open lids attracted me, and I
bent above her with a more personal interest, asking myself if she were
quite dead, and whether or not immediate medical assistance would be of
any avail. But the more closely I looked, the more certain I became
that she had been dead for some hours; and the dismay occasioned by
this thought, taken with the regrets which I must ever feel, that I had
not adopted the bold course the evening before, and, by forcing my way
to the hiding-place of this poor creature, interrupted, if not
prevented the consummation of her fate, startled me into a realization
of my present situation; and, leaving her side, I went into the next
room, threw up the window, and fastened to the blind the red
handkerchief which I had taken the precaution to bring with me.

Instantly a young man, whom I was fain to believe Q, though he bore
not the least resemblance, either in dress or facial expression to any
renderings of that youth which I had yet seen, emerged from the
tinsmith's house, and approached the one I was in.

Observing him cast a hurried glance in my direction, I crossed the
floor, and stood awaiting him at the head of the stairs.

"Well?" he whispered, upon entering the house and meeting my
glance from below; "have you seen her?"

"Yes," I returned bitterly, "I have seen her!"

He hurriedly mounted to my side. "And she has confessed?"

"No; I have had no talk with her." Then, as I perceived him
growing alarmed at my voice and manner, I drew him into Mrs. Belden's
room and hastily inquired: "What did you mean this morning when you
informed me you had seen this girl? that she was in a certain room
where I might find her?"

"What I said."

"You have, then, been to her room?"

"No; I have only been on the outside of it. Seeing a light, I
crawled up on to the ledge of the slanting roof last night while both
you and Mrs. Belden were out, and, looking through the window, saw her
moving round the room." He must have observed my countenance change,
for he stopped. "What is to pay?" he cried.

I could restrain myself no longer. "Come," I said, "and see for
yourself!" And, leading him to the little room I had just left, I
pointed to the silent form lying within. "You told me I should find
Hannah here; but you did not tell me I should find her in this
condition."

"Great heaven!" he cried with a start: "not dead?"

"Yes," I said, "dead."

It seemed as if he could not realize it. "But it is impossible!"
he returned. "She is in a heavy sleep, has taken a narcotic----"

"It is not sleep," I said, "or if it is, she will never wake. Look!"
And, taking the hand once more in mine, I let it fall in its stone
weight upon the bed.

The sight seemed to convince him. Calming down, he stood gazing at
her with a very strange expression upon his face. Suddenly he moved and
began quietly turning over the clothes that were lying on the floor.

"What are you doing?" I asked. "What are you looking for?"

"I am looking for the bit of paper from which I saw her take what
I supposed to be a dose of medicine last night. Oh, here it is!" he
cried, lifting a morsel of paper that, lying on the floor under the
edge of the bed, had hitherto escaped his notice.

"Let me see!" I anxiously exclaimed.

He handed me the paper, on the inner surface of which I could dimly
discern the traces of an impalpable white powder.

"This is important," I declared, carefully folding the paper
together. "If there is enough of this powder remaining to show that
the contents of this paper were poisonous, the manner and means of the
girl's death are accounted for, and a case of deliberate suicide made
evident."

"I am not so sure of that," he retorted. "If I am any judge of
countenances, and I rather flatter myself I am, this girl had no more
idea she was taking poison than I had. She looked not only bright but
gay; and when she tipped up the paper, a smile of almost silly triumph
crossed her face. If Mrs. Belden gave her that dose to take, telling
her it was medicine----"

"That is something which yet remains to be learned; also whether
the dose, as you call it, was poisonous or not. It may be she died of
heart disease."

He simply shrugged his shoulders, and pointed first at the plate of
breakfast left on the chair, and secondly at the broken-down door.

"Yes," I said, answering his look, "Mrs. Belden has been in here
this morning, and Mrs. Belden locked the door when she went out; but
that proves nothing beyond her belief in the girl's hearty condition."

"A belief which that white face on its tumbled pillow did not seem
to shake?"

"Perhaps in her haste she may not have looked at the girl, but have
set the dishes down without more than a casual glance in her direction?"

"I don't want to suspect anything wrong, but it is such a
coincidence!"

This was touching me on a sore point, and I stepped back. "Well,"
said I, "there is no use in our standing here busying ourselves with
conjectures. There is too much to be done. Come!" and I moved
hurriedly towards the door.

"What are you going to do?" he asked. "Have you forgotten this
is but an episode in the one great mystery we are sent here to unravel?
If this girl has come to her death by some foul play, it is our
business to find it out."

"That must be left for the coroner. It has now passed out of our
hands."

"I know; but we can at least take full note of the room and
everything in it before throwing the affair into the hands of
strangers. Mr. Gryce will expect that much of us, I am sure."

"I have looked at the room. The whole is photographed on my mind. I
am only afraid I can never forget it."

"And the body? Have you noticed its position? the lay of the
bed-clothes around it? the lack there is of all signs of struggle or
fear? the repose of the countenance? the easy fall of the hands?"

"Yes, yes; don't make me look at it any more."

"Then the clothes hanging on the wall? "--rapidly pointing out
each object as he spoke. "Do you see? a calico dress, a shawl,--not
the one in which she was believed to have run away, but an old black
one, probably belonging to Mrs. Belden. Then this chest,"--opening
it,--" containing a few underclothes marked,--let us see, ah, with the
name of the lady of the house, but smaller than any she ever wore;
made for Hannah, you observe, and marked with her own name to prevent
suspicion. And then these other clothes lying on the floor, all new,
all marked in the same way. Then this--Halloo! look here!" he
suddenly cried.

Going over to where he stood I stooped down, when a wash-bowl half
full of burned paper met my eye.

"I saw her bending over something in this corner, and could not
think what it was. Can it be she is a suicide after all? She has
evidently destroyed something here which she didn't wish any one to
see."

"I do not know," I said. "I could almost hope so."

"Not a scrap, not a morsel left to show what it was; how
unfortunate!"

"Mrs. Belden must solve this riddle," I cried.

"Mrs. Belden must solve the whole riddle," he replied; "the secret
of the Leavenworth murder hangs upon it." Then, with a lingering look
towards the mass of burned paper, "Who knows but what that was a
confession?"

The conjecture seemed only too probable.

"Whatever it was," said I, "it is now ashes, and we have got to
accept the fact and make the best of it."

"Yes," said he with a deep sigh; "that's so; but Mr. Gryce will
never forgive me for it, never. He will say I ought to have known it
was a suspicious circumstance for her to take a dose of medicine at the
very moment detection stood at her back."

"But she did not know that; she did not see you."

"We don't know what she saw, nor what Mrs. Belden saw. Women are a
mystery; and though I flatter myself that ordinarily I am a match for
the keenest bit of female flesh that ever walked, I must say that in
this case I feel myself thoroughly and shamefully worsted."

"Well, well," I said, "the end has not come yet; who knows what a
talk with Mrs. Belden will bring out? And, by the way, she will be
coming back soon, and I must be ready to meet her. Everything depends
upon finding out, if I can, whether she is aware of this tragedy or
not. It is just possible she knows nothing about it."

And, hurrying him from the room, I pulled the door to behind me, and
led the way down-stairs.

"Now," said I, "there is one thing you must attend to at once. A
telegram must be sent Mr. Gryce acquainting him with this unlooked-for
occurrence."

"All right, sir," and Q started for the door.

"Wait one moment," said I. "I may not have another opportunity to
mention it. Mrs. Belden received two letters from the postmaster
yesterday; one in a large and one in a small envelope; if you could
find out where they were postmarked----"

Q put his hand in his pocket. "I think I will not have to go far
to find out where one of them came from. Good George, I have lost it!"
And before I knew it, he had returned up-stairs.

That moment I heard the gate click.



XXXI. "Thereby hangs a tale."

    --Taming of the Shrew.

"IT was all a hoax; nobody was ill; I have been
imposed upon, meanly imposed upon!" And Mrs. Belden, flushed and
panting, entered the room where I was, and proceeded to take off her
bonnet; but whilst doing so paused, and suddenly exclaimed: "What is
the matter? How you look at me! Has anything happened?"

"Something very serious has occurred," I replied; "you have been
gone but a little while, but in that time a discovery has been made--"
I purposely paused here that the suspense might elicit from her some
betrayal; but, though she turned pale, she manifested less emotion than
I expected, and I went on--"which is likely to produce very
important consequences."

To my surprise she burst violently into tears. "I knew it, I knew
it!" she murmured. "I always said it would be impossible to keep it
secret if I let anybody into the house; she is so restless. But I
forget," she suddenly said, with a frightened look; "you haven't told
me what the discovery was. Perhaps it isn't what I thought; perhaps----"

I did not hesitate to interrupt her. "Mrs. Belden," I said, "I
shall not try to mitigate the blow. A woman who, in the face of the
most urgent call from law and justice, can receive into her house and
harbor there a witness of such importance as Hannah, cannot stand in
need of any great preparation for hearing that her efforts, have been
too successful, that she has accomplished her design of suppressing
valuable testimony, that law and justice are outraged, and that the
innocent woman whom this girl's evidence might have saved stands for
ever compromised in the eyes of the world, if not in those of the
officers of the law."

Her eyes, which had never left me during this address, flashed wide
with dismay.

"What do you mean?" she cried. "I have intended no wrong; I have
only tried to save people. I--I--But who are you? What have you
got to do with all this? What is it to you what I do or don't do? You
said you were a lawyer. Can it be you are come from Mary Leavenworth to
see how I am fulfilling her commands, and----"

"Mrs. Belden," I said, "it is of small importance now as to who I
am, or for what purpose I am here. But that my words may have the more
effect, I will say, that whereas I have not deceived you, either as to
my name or position, it is true that I am the friend of the Misses
Leavenworth, and that anything which is likely to affect them, is of
interest to me. When, therefore, I say that Eleanore Leavenworth is
irretrievably injured by this gill's death----"

"Death? What do you mean? Death!"

The burst was too natural, the tone too horror-stricken for me to
doubt for another moment as to this woman's ignorance of the true state
of affairs.

"Yes," I repeated, "the girl you have been hiding so long and so
well is now beyond your control. Only her dead body remains, Mrs.
Belden."

I shall never lose from my ears the shriek which she uttered, nor
the wild, "I don't believe it! I don't believe it!" with which she
dashed from the room and rushed up-stairs.

Nor that after-scene when, in the presence of the dead, she stood
wringing her hands and protesting, amid sobs of the sincerest grief and
terror, that she knew nothing of it; that she had left the girl in the
best of spirits the night before; that it was true she had locked her
in, but this she always did when any one was in the house; and that if
she died of any sudden attack, it must have been quietly, for she had
heard no stir all night, though she had listened more than once, being
naturally anxious lest the girl should make some disturbance that would
arouse me.

"But you were in here this morning?" said I.

"Yes; but I didn't notice. I was in a hurry, and thought she was
asleep; so I set the things down where she could get them and came
right away, locking the door as usual."

"It is strange she should have died this night of all others. Was
she ill yesterday?"

"No, sir; she was even brighter than common; more lively. I never
thought of her being sick then or ever. If I had----"

"You never thought of her being sick?" a voice here interrupted.
"Why, then, did you take such pains to give her a dose of medicine last
night?" And Q entered from the room beyond.

"I didn't!" she protested, evidently under the supposition it was
I who had spoken. "Did I, Hannah, did I, poor girl?" stroking the
hand that lay in hers with what appeared to be genuine sorrow and
regret.

"How came she by it, then? Where she did she get it if you didn't
give it to her?"

This time she seemed to be aware that some one besides myself was
talking to her, for, hurriedly rising, she looked at the man with a
wondering stare, before replying.

"I don't know who you are, sir; but I can tell you this, the girl
had no medicine,--took no dose; she wasn't sick last night that I know
of."

"Yet I saw her swallow a powder."

"Saw her!--the world is crazy, or I am--saw her swallow a
powder! How could you see her do that or anything else? Hasn't she
been shut up in this room for twenty-four hours?"

"Yes; but with _a_ window like that in the roof, it isn't so
very difficult to see into the room, madam."

"Oh," she cried, shrinking, "I have a spy in the house, have I?
But I deserve it; I kept her imprisoned in four close walls, and never
came to look at her once all night. I don't complain; but what was it
you say you saw her take? medicine? poison?"

"I didn't say poison."

"But you meant it. You think she has poisoned herself, and that I
had a hand in it!"

"No," I hastened to remark, "he does not think you had a hand in
it. He says he saw the girl herself swallow something which he believes
to have been the occasion of her death, and only asks you now where she
obtained it."

"How can I tell? I never gave her anything; didn't know she had
anything."

Somehow, I believed her, and so felt unwilling to prolong the
present interview, especially as each moment delayed the action which I
felt it incumbent upon us to take. So, motioning Q to depart upon his
errand, I took Mrs. Belden by the hand and endeavored to lead her from
the room. But she resisted, sitting down by the side of the bed with
the expression, "I will not leave her again; do not ask it; here is
my place, and here I will stay," while Q, obdurate for the first time,
stood staring severely upon us both, and would not move, though I urged
him again to make haste, saying that the morning was slipping away, and
that the telegram to Mr. Gryce ought to be sent.

"Till that woman leaves the room, I don't; and unless you promise to
take my place in watching her, I don't quit the house."

Astonished, I left her side and crossed to him.

"You carry your suspicions too far," I whispered, "and I think
you are too rude. We have seen nothing, I am sure, to warrant us in any
such action; besides, she can do no harm here; though, as for watching
her, I promise to do that much if it will relieve your mind."

"I don't want her watched here; take her below. I cannot leave
while she remains."

"Are you not assuming a trifle the master?"

"Perhaps; I don't know. If I am, it is because I have something in
my possession which excuses my conduct."

"What is that? the letter?"

"Yes."

Agitated now in my turn, I held out my hand. "Let me see," I said.

"Not while that woman remains in the room."

Seeing him implacable, I returned to Mrs. Belden.

"I must entreat you to come with me," said I. "This is not a
common death; we shall be obliged to have the coroner here and others.
You had better leave the room and go below."

"I don't mind the coroner; he is a neighbor of mine; his coming
won't prevent my watching over the poor girl until he arrives."

"Mrs. Belden," I said, "your position as the only one conscious of
the presence of this girl in your house makes it wiser for you not to
invite suspicion by lingering any longer than is necessary in the room
where her dead body lies."

"As if my neglect of her now were the best surety of my good
intentions towards her in time past!"

"It will not be neglect for you to go below with me at my earnest
request. You can do no good here by staying; will, in fact, be doing
harm. So listen to me or I shall be obliged to leave you in charge of
this man and go myself to inform the authorities."

This last argument seemed to affect her, for with one look of
shuddering abhorrence at _Q_ she rose, saying, "You have me in
your power," and then, without another word, threw her handkerchief
over the girl's face and left the room. In two minutes more I had the
letter of which _Q_ had spoken in my hands.

"It is the only one I could find, sir. It was in the pocket of the
dress Mrs. Belden had on last night. The other must be lying around
somewhere, but I haven't had time to find it. This will do, though, I
think. You will not ask for the other."

Scarcely noticing at the time with what deep significance he spoke,
I opened the letter. It was the smaller of the two I had seen her draw
under her shawl the day before at the post-office, and read as follows:

    "DEAR, DEAR FRIEND:

    "I am in awful trouble. You who love me must know it. I cannot
    explain, I can only make one prayer. Destroy what you have,
    to-day, instantly, without question or hesitation. The consent
    of any one else has nothing to do with it. You must obey. I am
    lost if you refuse. Do then what I ask, and save

    "ONE WHO LOVES YOU."

It was addressed to Mrs. Belden; there was no signature or date,
only the postmark New York; but I knew the handwriting. It was Mary
Leavenworth's.

"A damning letter!" came in the dry tones which Q seemed to think
fit to adopt on this occasion. "And a damning bit of evidence against
the one who wrote it, and the woman who received it!"

"A terrible piece of evidence, indeed," said I, "if I did not
happen to know that this letter refers to the destruction of something
radically different from what you suspect. It alludes to some papers in
Mrs. Belden's charge; nothing else."

"Are you sure, sir?"

"Quite; but we will talk of this hereafter. It is time you sent
your telegram, and went for the coroner."

"Very well, sir." And with this we parted; he to perform his role
and I mine.

I found Mrs. Belden walking the floor below, bewailing her
situation, and uttering wild sentences as to what the neighbors would
say of her; what the minister would think; what Clara, whoever that
was, would do, and how she wished she had died before ever she had
meddled with the affair.

Succeeding in calming her after a while, I induced her to sit down
and listen to what I had to say. "You will only injure yourself by
this display of feeling," I remarked, "besides unfitting yourself for
what you will presently be called upon to go through." And, laying
myself out to comfort the unhappy woman, I first explained the
necessities of the case, and next inquired if she had no friend upon
whom she could call in this emergency.

To my great surprise she replied no; that while she had kind
neighbors and good friends, there was no one upon whom she could call
in a case like this, either for assistance or sympathy, and that,
unless I would take pity on her, she would have to meet it alone--" As
I have met everything," she said, "from Mr. Belden's death to the loss
of most of my little savings in a town fire last year."

I was touched by this,--that she who, in spite of her weakness and
inconsistencies of character, possessed at least the one virtue of
sympathy with her kind, should feel any lack of friends.
Unhesitatingly, I offered to do what I could for her, providing she
would treat me with the perfect frankness which the case demanded. To
my great relief, she expressed not only her willingness, but her strong
desire, to tell all she knew. "I have had enough secrecy for my whole
life," she said. And indeed I do believe she was so thoroughly
frightened, that if a police-officer had come into the house and asked
her to reveal secrets compromising the good name of her own son, she
would have done so without cavil or question. "I feel as if I wanted
to take my stand out on the common, and, in the face of the whole
world, declare what I have done for Mary Leavenworth. But first," she
whispered, "tell me, for God's sake, how those girls are situated. I
have not dared to ask or write. The papers say a good deal about
Eleanore, but nothing about Mary; and yet Mary writes of her own peril
only, and of the danger she would be in if certain facts were known.
What is the truth? I don't want to injure them, only to take care of
myself."

"Mrs. Belden," I said, "Eleanore Leavenworth has got into her
present difficulty by not telling all that was required of her. Mary
Leavenworth--but I cannot speak of her till I know what you have to
divulge. Her position, as well as that of her cousin, is too anomalous
for either you or me to discuss. What we want to learn from you is, how
you became connected with this affair, and what it was that Hannah knew
which caused her to leave New York and take refuge here."

But Mrs. Belden, clasping and unclasping her hands, met my gaze with
one full of the most apprehensive doubt. "You will never believe me,"
she cried; "but I don't know what Hannah knew. I am in utter ignorance
of what she saw or heard on that fatal night; she never told, and I
never asked. She merely said that Miss Leavenworth wished me to secrete
her for a short time; and I, because I loved Mary Leavenworth and
admired her beyond any one I ever saw, weakly consented, and----"

"Do you mean to say," I interrupted, "that after you knew of the
murder, you, at the mere expression of Miss Leavenworth's wishes,
continued to keep this girl concealed without asking her any questions
or demanding any explanations?"

"Yes, sir; you will never believe me, but it is so. I thought that,
since Mary had sent her here, she must have her reasons; and--and--I
cannot explain it now; it all looks so differently; but I did do as I
have said."

"But that was very strange conduct. You must have had strong reason
for obeying Mary Leavenworth so blindly."

"Oh, sir," she gasped, "I thought I understood it all; that Mary,
the bright young creature, who had stooped from her lofty position to
make use of me and to love me, was in some way linked to the criminal,
and that it would be better for me to remain in ignorance, do as I was
bid, and trust all would come right. I did not reason about it; I only
followed my impulse. I couldn't do otherwise; it isn't my nature. When
I am requested to do anything for a person I love, I cannot refuse."

"And you love Mary Leavenworth; a woman whom you yourself seem to
consider capable of a great crime?"

"Oh, I didn't say that; I don't know as I thought that. She might
be in some way connected with it, without being the actual perpetrator.
She could never be that; she is too dainty."

"Mrs. Belden," I said, "what do you know of Mary Leavenworth which
makes even that supposition possible?"

The white face of the woman before me flushed. "I scarcely know
what to reply," she cried. "It is a long story, and----"

"Never mind the long story," I interrupted. "Let me hear the one
vital reason."

"Well," said she, "it is this; that Mary was in an emergency from
which nothing but her uncle's death could release her."

"Ah, how's that?"

But here we were interrupted by the sound of steps on the porch,
and, looking out, I saw _Q_ entering the house alone. Leaving Mrs.
Belden where she was, I stepped into the hall.

"Well," said I, "what is the matter? Haven't you found the coroner?
Isn't he at home?"

"No, gone away; off in a buggy to look after a man that was found
some ten miles from here, lying in a ditch beside a yoke of oxen."
Then, as he saw my look of relief, for I was glad of this temporary
delay, said, with an expressive wink: "It would take a fellow a long
time to go to him--if he wasn't in a hurry--hours, I think."

"Indeed!" I returned, amused at his manner. "Rough road?"

"Very; no horse I could get could travel it faster than a walk."

"Well," said I, "so much the better for us. Mrs. Belden has a long
story to tell, and----"

"Doesn't wish to be interrupted. I understand."

I nodded and he turned towards the door.

"Have you telegraphed Mr. Gryce?" I asked.

"Yes, sir."

"Do you think he will come?"

"Yes, sir; if he has to hobble on two sticks."

"At what time do you look for him?"

"_You_ will look for him as early as three o'clock. I shall be
among the mountains, ruefully eying my broken-down team." And leisurely
donning his hat he strolled away down the street like one who has the
whole day on his hands and does not know what to do with it.

An opportunity being thus given for Mrs. Belden's story, she at once
composed herself to the task, with the following result.



XXXII MRS. BELDEN'S NARRATIVE

    "Cursed, destructive Avarice,
     Thou everlasting foe to Love and Honor."
        --Trap's Atram.

    "Mischief never thrives
     Without the help of Woman.
        --The Same.

IT will be a year next July since I first saw Mary Leavenworth. J
was living at that time a most monotonous existence. Loving what was
beautiful, hating what was sordid, drawn by nature towards all that was
romantic and uncommon, but doomed by my straitened position and the
loneliness of my widowhood to spend my days in the weary round of plain
sewing, I had begun to think that the shadow of a humdrum old age was
settling down upon me, when one morning, in the full tide of my
dissatisfaction, Mary Leavenworth stepped across the threshold of my
door and, with one smile, changed the whole tenor of my life.

This may seem exaggeration to you, especially when I say that her
errand was simply one of business, she having heard I was handy with my
needle; but if you could have seen her as she appeared that day,
marked the look with which she approached me, and the smile with which
she left, you would pardon the folly of a romantic old woman, who
beheld a fairy queen in this lovely young lady. The fact is, I was
dazzled by her beauty and her charms. And when, a few days after, she
came again, and crouching down on the stool at my feet, said she was so
tired of the gossip and tumult down at the hotel, that it was a relief
to run away and hide with some one who would let her act like the child
she was, I experienced for the moment, I believe, the truest happiness
of my life. Meeting her advances with all the warmth her manner
invited, I found her ere long listening eagerly while I told her,
almost without my own volition, the story of my past life, in the form
of an amusing allegory.

The next day saw her in the same place; and the next; always with
the eager, laughing eyes, and the fluttering, uneasy hands, that
grasped everything they touched, and broke everything they grasped.

But the fourth day she was not there, nor the fifth, nor the sixth,
and I was beginning to feel the old shadow settling back upon me, when
one night, just as the dusk of twilight was merging into evening gloom,
she came stealing in at the front door, and, creeping up to my side,
put her hands over my eyes with such a low, ringing laugh, that I
started.

"You don't know what to make of me!" she cried, throwing aside
her cloak, and revealing herself in the full splendor of evening
attire. "I don't know what to make of myself. Though it seems folly, I
felt that I must run away and tell some one that a certain pair of eyes
have been looking into mine, and that for the first time in my life I
feel myself a woman as well as a queen." And with a glance in which
coyness struggled with pride, she gathered up her cloak around her, and
laughingly cried:

"Have you had a visit from a flying sprite? Has one little ray of
moonlight found its way into your prison for a wee moment, with Mary's
laugh and Mary's snowy silk and flashing diamonds? Say!" and she patted
my cheek, and smiled so bewilderingly, that even now, with all the dull
horror of these after-events crowding upon me, I cannot but feel
something like tears spring to my eyes at the thought of it.

"And so the Prince has come for you?" I whispered, alluding to a
story I had told her the last time she had visited me; a story in
which a girl, who had waited all her life in rags and degradation for
the lordly knight who was to raise her from a hovel to a throne, died
just as her one lover, an honest peasant-lad whom she had discarded in
her pride, arrived at her door with the fortune he had spent all his
days in amassing for her sake.

But at this she flushed, and drew back towards the door. "I don't
know; I am afraid not. I--I don't think anything about that. Princes
are not so easily won," she murmured.

"What! are you going?" I said, "and alone? Let me accompany
you."

But she only shook her fairy head, and replied: "No, no; that
would be spoiling the romance, indeed. I have come upon you like a
sprite, and like a sprite I will go." And, flashing like the moonbeam
she was, she glided out into the night, and floated away down the
street.

When she next came, I observed a feverish excitement in her manner,
which assured me, even plainer than the coy sweetness displayed in our
last interview, that her heart had been touched by her lover's
attentions. Indeed, she hinted as much before she left, saying in a
melancholy tone, when I had ended my story in the usual happy way, with
kisses and marriage, "I shall never marry!" finishing the
exclamation with a long-drawn sigh, that somehow emboldened me to say,
perhaps because I knew she had no mother:

"And why? What reason can there be for such rosy lips saying their
possessor will never marry?"

She gave me one quick look, and then dropped her eyes. I feared I
had offended her, and was feeling very humble, when she suddenly
replied, in an even but low tone, "I said I should never marry,
because the one man who pleases me can never be my husband."

All the hidden romance in my nature started at once into life. "Why
not? What do you mean? Tell me."

"There is nothing to tell," said she; "only I have been so weak
as to"--she would not say, fall in love, she was a proud woman--
"admire a man whom my uncle will never allow me to marry."

And she rose as if to go; but I drew her back. "Whom your uncle
will not allow you to marry!" I repeated. "Why? because he is poor?"

"No; uncle loves money, but not to such an extent as that.
Besides, Mr. Clavering is not poor. He is the owner of a beautiful
place in his own country----"

"Own country?" I interrupted. "Is he not an American?"

"No," she returned; "he is an Englishman."

I did not see why she need say that in just the way she did, but,
supposing she was aggravated by some secret memory, went on to inquire:
"Then what difficulty can there be? Isn't he--" I was going to say
steady, but refrained.

"He is an Englishman," she emphasized in the same bitter tone as
before. "In saying that, I say it all. Uncle will never let me marry
an Englishman."

I looked at her in amazement. Such a puerile reason as this had
never entered my mind.

"He has an absolute mania on the subject," resumed she. "I might
as well ask him to allow me to drown myself as to marry an Englishman."

A woman of truer judgment than myself would have said: "Then, if
that is so, why not discard from your breast all thought of him? Why
dance with him, and talk to him, and let your admiration develop into
love?" But I was all romance then, and, angry at a prejudice I could
neither understand nor appreciate, I said:

"But that is mere tyranny! Why should he hate the English so? And
why, if he does, should you feel yourself obliged to gratify him in a
whim so unreasonable?"

"Why? Shall I tell you, auntie?" she said, flushing and looking
away.

"Yes," I returned; "tell me everything."

"Well, then, if you want to know the worst of me, as you already
know the best, I hate to incur my uncle's displeasure,
because--because--I have always been brought up to regard myself as his
heiress, and I know that if I were to marry contrary to his wishes, he
would instantly change his mind, and leave me penniless."

"But," I cried, my romance a little dampened by this admission,
"you tell me Mr. Clavering has enough to live upon, so you would not
want; and if you love--"

Her violet eyes fairly flashed in her amazement.

"You don't understand," she said; "Mr. Clavering is not poor; but
uncle is rich. I shall be a queen--" There she paused, trembling, and
falling on my breast. "Oh, it sounds mercenary, I know, but it is the
fault of my bringing up. I have been taught to worship money. I would
be utterly lost without it. And yet"--her whole face softening with the
light of another emotion, "I cannot say to Henry Clavering, 'Go! my
prospects are dearer to me than you!' I cannot, oh, I cannot!"

"You love him, then?" said I, determined to get at the truth of
the matter if possible.

She rose restlessly. "Isn't that a proof of love? If you knew me,
you would say it was." And, turning, she took her stand before a
picture that hung on the wall of my sitting-room.

"That looks like me," she said.

It was one of a pair of good photographs I possessed.

"Yes," I remarked, "that is why I prize it."

She did not seem to hear me; she was absorbed in gazing at the
exquisite face before her. "That is a winning face," I heard her say.
"Sweeter than mine. I wonder if she would ever hesitate between love
and money. I do not believe she would," her own countenance growing
gloomy and sad as she said so; "she would think only of the happiness
she would confer; she is not hard like me. Eleanore herself would love
this girl."

I think she had forgotten my presence, for at the mention of her
cousin's name she turned quickly round with a half suspicious look,
saying lightly:

"My dear old Mamma Hubbard looks horrified. She did not know she
had such a very unromantic little wretch for a listener, when she was
telling all those wonderful stories of Love slaying dragons, and living
in caves, and walking over burning ploughshares as if they were tufts
of spring grass?"

"No," I said, taking her with an irresistible impulse of admiring
affection into my arms; "but if I had, it would have made no
difference. I should still have talked about love, and of all it can do
to make this weary workaday world sweet and delightful."

"Would you? Then you do not think me such a wretch?"

What could I say? I thought her the winsomest being in the world,
and frankly told her so. Instantly she brightened into her very gayest
self. Not that I thought then, much less do I think now, she
partiallaly cared for my good opinion; but her nature demanded
admiration, and unconsciously blossomed under it, as a flower under the
sunshine.

"And you will still let me come and tell you how bad I am,--that
is, if I go on being bad, as I doubtless shall to the end of the
chapter? You will not turn me off?"

"I will never turn you off."

"Not if I should do a dreadful thing? Not if I should run away
with my lover some fine night, and leave uncle to discover how his
affectionate partiality had been requited?"

It was lightly said, and lightly meant, for she did not even wait
for my reply. But its seed sank deep into our two hearts for all that.
And for the next few days I spent my time in planning how I should
manage, if it should ever fall to my lot to conduct to a successful
issue so enthralling a piece of business as an elopement. You may
imagine, then, how delighted I was, when one evening Hannah, this
unhappy girl who is now lying dead under my roof, and who was occupying
the position of lady's maid to Miss Mary Leavenworth at that time,
came to my door with a note from her mistress, running thus:

    "Have the loveliest story of the season ready for me tomorrow; and
    let the prince be as handsome as--as some one you have heard of,
    and the princess as foolish as your little yielding pet,

    "MARY."

Which short note could only mean that she was engaged. But the next
day did not bring me my Mary, nor the next, nor the next; and beyond
hearing that Mr. Leavenworth had returned from his trip I received
neither word nor token. Two more days dragged by, when, just as
twilight set in, she came. It had been a week since I had seen her, but
it might have been a year from the change I observed in her countenance
and expression. I could scarcely greet her with any show of pleasure,
she was so unlike her former self.

"You are disappointed, are you not?" said she, looking at me.
"You expected revelations, whispered hopes, and all manner of sweet
confidences; and you see, instead, a cold, bitter woman, who for the
first time in your presence feels inclined to be reserved and
uncommunicative."

"That is because you have had more to trouble than encourage you in
your love," I returned, though not without a certain shrinking, caused
more by her manner than words.

She did not reply to this, but rose and paced the floor, coldly at
first, but afterwards with a certain degree of excitement that proved
to be the prelude to a change in her manner; for, suddenly pausing, she
turned to me and said: "Mr. Clavering has left R----, Mrs. Belden."

"Left!"

"Yes, my uncle commanded me to dismiss him, and I obeyed."

The work dropped from my hands, in my heartfelt disappointment.
"Ah! then he knows of your engagement to Mr. Clavering?"

"Yes; he had not been in the house five minutes before Eleanore
told him."

"Then _she_ knew?"

"Yes," with a half sigh. "She could hardly help it. I was foolish
enough to give her the cue in my first moment of joy and weakness. I
did not think of the consequences; but I might have known. She is so
conscientious."

"I do not call it conscientiousness to tell another's secrets," I
returned.

"That is because you are not Eleanore."

Not having a reply for this, I said, "And so your uncle did not
regard your engagement with favor?"

"Favor! Did I not tell you he would never allow me to marry an
Englishman? He said he would sooner see me buried."

"And you yielded? Made no struggle? Let the hard, cruel man have his
way?"

She was walking off to look again at that picture which had
attracted her attention the time before, but at this word gave me one
little sidelong look that was inexpressibly suggestive.

"I obeyed him when he commanded, if that is what you mean."

"And dismissed Mr. Clavering after having given him your word of
honor to be his wife?"

"Why not, when I found I could not keep my word."

"Then you have decided not to marry him?"

She did not reply at once, but lifted her face mechanically to the
picture.

"My uncle would tell you that I had decided to be governed wholly
by his wishes!" she responded at last with what I felt was
self-scornful bitterness.

Greatly disappointed, I burst into tears. "Oh, Mary!" I cried, "Oh, Mary!"
and instantly blushed, startled that I had called her by her first name.

But she did not appear to notice.

"Have you any complaint to make?" she asked. "Is it not my
manifest duty to be governed by my uncle's wishes? Has he not brought
me up from childhood? lavished every luxury upon me? made me all I
am, even to the love of riches which he has instilled into my soul with
every gift he has thrown into my lap, every word he has dropped into my
ear, since I was old enough to know what riches meant? Is it for me
now to turn my back upon fostering care so wise, beneficent, and free,
just because a man whom I have known some two weeks chances to offer me
in exchange what he pleases to call his love?"

"But," I feebly essayed, convinced perhaps by the tone of sarcasm
in which this was uttered that she was not far from my way of thinking
after all, "if in two weeks you have learned to love this man more
than everything else, even the riches which make your uncle's favor a
thing of such moment--"

"Well," said she, "what then?"

"Why, then I would say, secure your happiness with the man of your
choice, if you have to marry him in secret, trusting to your influence
over your uncle to win the forgiveness he never can persistently deny."

You should have seen the arch expression which stole across her face
at that. "Would it not be better," she asked, creeping to my arms, and
laying her head on my shoulder, "would it not be better for me to make
sure of that uncle's favor first, before undertaking the hazardous
experiment of running away with a too ardent lover?"

Struck by her manner, I lifted her face and looked at it. It was one
amused smile.

"Oh, my darling," said I, "you have not, then dismissed Mr.
Clavering?"

"I have sent him away," she whispered demurely.

"But not without hope?"

She burst into a ringing laugh.

"Oh, you dear old Mamma Hubbard; what a matchmaker you are, to be
sure! You appear as much interested as if you were the lover
yourself."

"But tell me," I urged.

In a moment her serious mood returned. "He will wait for me," said
she.

The next day I submitted to her the plan I had formed for her
clandestine intercourse with Mr. Clavering. It was for them both to
assume names, she taking mine, as one less liable to provoke conjecture
than a strange name, and he that of LeRoy Robbins. The plan pleased
her, and with the slight modification of a secret sign being used on
the envelope, to distinguish her letters from mine, was at once adopted.

And so it was I took the fatal step that has involved me in all this
trouble. With the gift of my name to this young girl to use as she
would and sign what she would, I seemed to part with what was left me
of judgment and discretion. Henceforth, I was only her scheming,
planning, devoted slave; now copying the letters which she brought me,
and enclosing them to the false name we had agreed upon, and now
busying myself in devising ways to forward to her those which I
received from him, without risk of discovery. Hannah was the medium we
employed, as Mary felt it would not be wise for her to come too often
to my house. To this girl's charge, then, I gave such notes as I could
not forward in any other way, secure in the reticence of her nature, as
well as in her inability to read, that these letters addressed to Mrs.
Amy Belden would arrive at their proper destination without mishap.
And. I believe they always did. At all events, no difficulty that I
ever heard of arose out of the use of this girl as a go-between.

But a change was at hand. Mr. Clavering, who had left an invalid
mother in England, was suddenly summoned home. He prepared to go, but,
flushed with love, distracted by doubts, smitten with the fear that,
once withdrawn from the neighborhood of a woman so universally courted
as Mary, he would stand small chance of retaining his position in her
regard, he wrote to her, telling his fears and asking her to marry him
before he went.

"Make me your husband, and I will follow your wishes in all
things," he wrote. "The certainty that you are mine will make parting
possible; without it, I cannot go; no, not if my mother should die
without the comfort of saying good-bye to her only child."

By some chance she was in my house when I brought this letter from
the post-office, and I shall never forget how she started when she read
it. But, from looking as if she had received an insult, she speedily
settled down into a calm consideration of the subject, writing and
delivering into my charge for copying a few lines in which she promised
to accede to his request, if he would agree to leave the public
declaration of the marriage to her discretion, and consent to bid her
farewell at the door of the church or wherever the ceremony of marriage
should take place, never to come into her presence again till such
declaration had been made. Of course this brought in a couple of days
the sure response: "Anything, so you will be mine."

And Amy Belden's wits and powers of planning were all summoned into
requisition for the second time, to devise how this matter could be
arranged without subjecting the parties to the chance of detection. I
found the thing very difficult. In the first place, it was essential
that the marriage should come off within three days, Mr. Clavering
having, upon the receipt of her letter, secured his passage upon a
steamer that sailed on the following Saturday; and, next, both he and
Miss Leavenworth were too conspicuous in their personal appearance to
make it at all possible for them to be secretly married anywhere within
gossiping distance of this place. And yet it was desirable that the
scene of the ceremony should not be too far away, or the time occupied
in effecting the journey to and from the place would necessitate an
absence from the hotel on the part of Miss Leavenworth long enough to
arouse the suspicions of Eleanore; something which Mary felt it wiser
to avoid. Her uncle, I have forgotten to say, was not here--having
gone away again shortly after the apparent dismissal of Mr. Clavering.
F----, then, was the only town I could think of which combined the two
advantages of distance and accessibility. Although upon the railroad,
it was an insignificant place, and had, what was better yet, a very
obscure man for its clergyman, living, which was best of all, not ten
rods from the depot. If they could meet there? Making inquiries, I
found that it could be done, and, all alive to the romance of the
occasion, proceeded to plan the details.

And now I am coming to what might have caused the overthrow of the
whole scheme: I allude to the detection on the part of Eleanore of the
correspondence between Mary and Mr. Clavering. It happened thus.
Hannah, who, in her frequent visits to my house, had grown very fond of
my society, had come in to sit with me for a while one evening. She had
not been in the house, however, more than ten minutes, before there
came a knock at the front door; and going to it I saw Mary, as I
supposed, from the long cloak she wore, standing before me. Thinking
she had come with a letter for Mr. Clavering, I grasped her arm and
drew her into the hall, saying, "Have you got it? I must post it
to-night, or he will not receive it in time."

There I paused, for, the panting creature I had by the arm turning
upon me, I saw myself confronted by a stranger.

"You have made a mistake," she cried. "I am Eleanore Leavenworth,
and I have come for my girl Hannah. Is she here?"

I could only raise my hand in apprehension, and point to the girl
sitting in the corner of the room before her. Miss Leavenworth
immediately turned back.

"Hannah, I want you," said she, and would have left the house
without another word, but I caught her by the arm.

"Oh, miss--" I began, but she gave me such a look, I dropped her
arm.

"I have nothing to say to you!" she cried in a low, thrilling
voice. "Do not detain me." And, with a glance to see if Hannah were
following her, she went out.

For an hour I sat crouched on the stair just where she had left me.
Then I went to bed, but I did not sleep a wink that night. You can
imagine, then, my wonder when, with the first glow of the early morning
light, Mary, looking more beautiful than ever, came running up the
steps and into the room where I was, with the letter for Mr. Clavering
trembling in her hand.

"Oh!" I cried in my joy and relief, "didn't she understand me,
then?"

The gay look on Mary's face turned to one of reckless scorn. "If
you mean Eleanore, yes. She is duly initiated, Mamma Hubbard. Knows
that I love Mr. Clavering and write to him. I couldn't keep it secret
after the mistake you made last evening; so I did the next best thing,
told her the truth."

"Not that you were about to be married?"

"Certainly not. I don't believe in unnecessary communications."

"And you did not find her as angry as you expected?"

"I will not say that; she was angry enough. And yet," continued
Mary, with a burst of self-scornful penitence, "I will not call
Eleanore's lofty indignation anger. She was grieved, Mamma Hubbard,
grieved." And with a laugh which I believe was rather the result of her
own relief than of any wish to reflect on her cousin, she threw her
head on one side and eyed me with a look which seemed to say, "Do I
plague you so very much, you dear old Mamma Hubbard?"

She did plague me, and I could not conceal it. "And will she not
tell her uncle?" I gasped.

The naive expression on Mary's face quickly changed. "No," said she.

I felt a heavy hand, hot with fever, lifted from my heart. "And we
can still go on?"

She held out the letter for reply.

The plan agreed upon between us for the carrying out of our
intentions was this. At the time appointed, Mary was to excuse herself
to her cousin upon the plea that she had promised to take me to see a
friend in the next town. She was then to enter a buggy previously
ordered, and drive here, where I was to join her. We were then to
proceed immediately to the minister's house in F----, where we had
reason to believe we should find everything prepared for us. But in
this plan, simple as it was, one thing was forgotten, and that was the
character of Eleanore's love for her cousin. That her suspicions would
be aroused we did not doubt; but that she would actually follow Mary up
and demand an explanation of her conduct, was what neither she, who
knew her so well, nor I, who knew her so little, ever imagined
possible. And yet that was just what occurred. But let me explain.
Mary, who had followed out the programme to the point of leaving a
little note of excuse on Eleanore's dressing-table, had come to my
house, and was just taking off her long cloak to show me her dress,
when there came a commanding knock at the front door. Hastily pulling
her cloak about her I ran to open it, intending, you may be sure, to
dismiss my visitor with short ceremony, when I heard a voice behind me
say, "Good heavens, it is Eleanore!" and, glancing back, saw Mary
looking through the window-blind upon the porch without.

"What shall we do?" I cried, in very natural dismay.

"Do? why, open the door and let her in; I am not afraid of
Eleanore."

I immediately did so, and Eleanore Leavenworth, very pale, but with
a resolute countenance, walked into the house and into this room,
confronting Mary in very nearly the same spot where you are now
sitting. "I have come," said she, lifting a face whose expression of
mingled sweetness and power I could not but admire, even in that moment
of apprehension, "to ask you without any excuse for my request, if you
will allow me to accompany you upon your drive this morning?"

Mary, who had drawn herself up to meet some word of accusation or
appeal, turned carelessly away to the glass. "I am very sorry," she
said, "but the buggy holds only two, and I shall be obliged to refuse."

"I will order a carriage."

"But I do not wish your company, Eleanore. We are off on a pleasure
trip, and desire to have our fun by ourselves."

"And you will not allow me to accompany you?"

"I cannot prevent your going in another carriage."

Eleanore's face grew yet more earnest in its expression. "Mary,"
said she, "we have been brought up together. I am your sister in
affection if not in blood, and I cannot see you start upon this
adventure with no other companion than this woman. Then tell me, shall
I go with you, as a sister, or on the road behind you as the enforced
guardian of your honor against your will?"

"My honor?"

"You are going to meet Mr. Clavering."

"Well?"

"Twenty miles from home."

"Well?"

"Now is it discreet or honorable in you to do this?"

Mary's haughty lip took an ominous curve. "The same hand that
raised you has raised me," she cried bitterly.

"This is no time to speak of that," returned Eleanore.

Mary's countenance flushed. All the antagonism of her nature was
aroused. She looked absolutely Juno-like in her wrath and reckless
menace. "Eleanore," she cried, "I am going to F---- to marry Mr.
Clavering! _Now_ do you wish to accompany me?"

"I do."

Mary's whole manner changed. leaping forward, she grasped her
cousin's arm and shook it. "For what reason?" she cried. "What do
you intend to do?"

"To witness the marriage, if it be a true one; to step between you
and shame if any element of falsehood should come in to affect its
legality."

Mary's hand fell from her cousin's arm. "I do not understand you,"
said she. "I thought you never gave countenance to what you considered
wrong."

"Nor do I. Any one who knows me will understand that I do not give
my approval to this marriage just because I attend its ceremonial in
the capacity of an unwilling witness."

"Then why go?"

"Because I value your honor above my own peace. Because I love our
common benefactor, and know that he would never pardon me if I let his
darling be married, however contrary her union might be to his wishes,
without lending the support of my presence to make the transaction at
least a respectable one."

"But in so doing you will be involved in a world of deception--
which you hate."

"Any more so than now?"

"Mr. Clavering does not return with me, Eleanore."

"No, I supposed not."

"I leave him immediately after the ceremony."

Eleanore bowed her head.

"He goes to Europe." A pause.

"And I return home."

"There to wait for what, Mary?"

Mary's face crimsoned, and she turned slowly away.

"What every other girl does under such circumstances, I suppose.
The development of more reasonable feelings in an obdurate parent's
heart."

Eleanore sighed, and a short silence ensued, broken by Eleanore's
suddenly falling upon her knees, and clasping her cousin's hand. "Oh,
Mary," she sobbed, her haughtiness all disappearing in a gush of wild
entreaty, "consider what you are doing! Think, before it is too
late, of the consequences which must follow such an act as this.
Marriage founded upon deception can never lead to happiness. Love--
but it is not that. Love would have led you either to have dismissed
Mr. Clavering at once, or to have openly accepted the fate which a
union with him would bring. Only passion stoops to subterfuge like
this. And you," she continued, rising and turning toward me in a sort
of forlorn hope very touching to see, "can you see this young
motherless girl, driven by caprice, and acknowledging no moral
restraint, enter upon the dark and crooked path she is planning for
herself, without uttering one word of warning and appeal? Tell me,
mother of children dead and buried, what excuse you will have for your
own part in this day's work, when she, with her face marred by the
sorrows which must follow this deception, comes to you----"

"The same excuse, probably," Mary's voice broke in, chill and
strained, "which you will have when uncle inquires how you came to
allow such an act of disobedience to be perpetrated in his absence:
that she could not help herself, that Mary would gang her ain gait, and
every one around must accommodate themselves to it,"

It was like a draught of icy air suddenly poured into a room heated
up to fever point. Eleanore stiffened immediately, and drawing back,
pale and composed, turned upon her cousin with the remark:

"Then nothing can move you?"

The curling of Mary's lips was her only reply.

Mr. Raymond, I do not wish to weary you with my feelings, but the
first great distrust I ever felt of my wisdom in pushing this matter so
far came with that curl of Mary's lip. More plainly than Eleanore's
words it showed me the temper with which she was entering upon this
undertaking; and, struck with momentary dismay, I advanced to speak
when Mary stopped me.

"There, now, Mamma Hubbard, don't you go and acknowledge that you
are frightened, for I won't hear it. I have promised to marry Henry
Clavering to-day, and I am going to keep my word--if I don't love him,"
she added with bitter emphasis. Then, smiling upon me in a way which
caused me to forget everything save the fact that she was going to her
bridal, she handed me her veil to fasten. As I was doing this, with
very trembling fingers, she said, looking straight at Eleanore:

"You have shown yourself more interested in my fate than I had any
reason to expect. Will you continue to display this concern all the way
to F----, or may I hope for a few moments of peace in which to dream
upon the step which, according to you, is about to hurl upon me such
dreadful consequences?"

"If I go with you to F----," Eleanore returned, "it is as a
witness, no more. My sisterly duty is done."

"Very well, then," Mary said, dimpling with sudden gayety; "I
suppose I shall have to accept the situation. Mamma Hubbard, I am so
sorry to disappoint you, but the buggy _won't_ hold three. If you
are good you shall be the first to congratulate me when I come home
to-night." And, almost before I knew it, the two had taken their seats
in the buggy that was waiting at the door. "Good-by," cried Mary,
waving her hand from the back; "wish me much joy--of my ride."

I tried to do so, but the words wouldn't come. I could only wave my
hand in response, and rush sobbing into the house.

Of that day, and its long hours of alternate remorse and anxiety, I
cannot trust myself to speak. Let me come at once to the time when,
seated alone in my lamp-lighted room, I waited and watched for the
token of their return which Mary had promised me. It came in the shape
of Mary herself, who, wrapped in her long cloak, and with her beautiful
face aglow with blushes, came stealing into the house just as I was
beginning to despair.

A strain of wild music from the hotel porch, where they were having
a dance, entered with her, producing such a weird effect upon my fancy
that I was not at all surprised when, in flinging off her cloak, she
displayed garments of bridal white and a head crowned with snowy roses.

"Oh, Mary!" I cried, bursting into tears; "you are then----"

"Mrs. Henry Clavering, at your service. I'm a bride, Auntie."

"Without a bridal," I murmured, taking her passionately into my
embrace.

She was not insensible to my emotion. Nestling close to me, she gave
herself up for one wild moment to a genuine burst of tears, saying
between her sobs all manner of tender things; telling me how she loved
me, and how I was the only one in all the world to whom she dared come
on this, her wedding night, for comfort or congratulation, and of how
frightened she felt now it was all over, as if with her name she had
parted with something of inestimable value.

"And does not the thought of having made some one the proudest of
men solace you?" I asked, more than dismayed at this failure of mine
to make these lovers happy.

"I don't know," she sobbed. "What satisfaction can it be for him
to feel himself tied for life to a girl who, sooner than lose a
prospective fortune, subjected him to such a parting?"

"Tell me about it," said I.

But she was not in the mood at that moment. The excitement of the
day had been too much for her. A thousand fears seemed to beset her
mind. Crouching down on the stool at my feet, she sat with her hands
folded and a glare on her face that lent an aspect of strange unreality
to her brilliant attire. "How shall I keep it secret! The thought
haunts me every moment; how can I keep it secret!"

"Why, is there any danger of its being known?" I inquired. "Were
you seen or followed?"

"No," she murmured. "It all went off well, but----"

"Where is the danger, then?"

"I cannot say; but some deeds are like ghosts. They will not be
laid; they reappear; they gibber; they make themselves known whether
we will or not. I did not think of this before. I was mad, reckless,
what you will. But ever since the night has come, I have felt it
crushing upon me like a pall that smothers life and youth and love out
of my heart. While the sunlight remained I could endure it; but now--
oh, Auntie, I have done something that will keep me in constant fear. I
have allied myself to a living apprehension. I have destroyed my
happiness."

I was too aghast to speak.

"For two hours I have played at being gay. Dressed in my bridal
white, and crowned with roses, I have greeted my friends as if they
were wedding-guests, and made believe to myself that all the
compliments bestowed upon me--and they are only too numerous--were just
so many congratulations upon my marriage. But it was no use; Eleanore
knew it was no use. She has gone to her room to pray, while I--I have
come here for the first time, perhaps for the last, to fall at some
one's feet and cry,--' God have mercy upon me!'"

I looked at her in uncontrollable emotion. "Oh, Mary, have I only
succeeded, then, in making you miserable?"

She did not answer; she was engaged in picking up the crown of roses
which had fallen from her hair to the floor.

"If I had not been taught to love money so!" she said at length.
"If, like Eleanore, I could look upon the splendor which has been ours
from childhood as a mere accessory of life, easy to be dropped at the
call of duty or affection! If prestige, adulation, and elegant
belongings were not so much to me; or love, friendship, and domestic
happiness more! If only I could walk a step without dragging the chain
of a thousand luxurious longings after me. Eleanore can. Imperious as
she often is in her beautiful womanhood, haughty as she can be when the
delicate quick of her personality is touched too rudely, I have known
her to sit by the hour in a low, chilly, ill-lighted and ill-smelling
garret, cradling a dirty child on her knee, and feeding with her own
hand an impatient old woman whom no one else would consent to touch.
Oh, oh! they talk about repentance and a change of heart! If some one
or something would only change mine! But there is no hope of that! no
hope of my ever being anything else than what I am: a selfish, wilful,
mercenary girl."

Nor was this mood a mere transitory one. That same night she made a
discovery which increased her apprehension almost to terror. This was
nothing less than the fact that Eleanore had been keeping a diary of
the last few weeks. "Oh," she cried in relating this to me the next
day, "what security shall I ever feel as long as this diary of hers
remains to confront me every time I go into her room? And she will not
consent to destroy it, though I have done my best to show her that it
is a betrayal of the trust I reposed in her. She says it is all she has
to show in the way of defence, if uncle should ever accuse her of
treachery to him and his happiness. She promises to keep it locked up;
but what good will that do! A thousand accidents might happen, any of
them sufficient to throw it into uncle's hands. I shall never feel safe
for a moment while it exists."

I endeavored to calm her by saying that if Eleanore was without
malice, such fears were groundless. But she would not be comforted, and
seeing her so wrought up, I suggested that Eleanore should be asked to
trust it into my keeping till such time as she should feel the
necessity of using it. The idea struck Mary favorably. "O yes," she
cried; "and I will put my certificate with it, and so get rid of all
my care at once." And before the afternoon was over, she had seen
Eleanore and made her request.

It was acceded to with this proviso, that I was neither to destroy
nor give up all or any of the papers except upon their united demand. A
small tin box was accordingly procured, into which were put all the
proofs of Mary's marriage then existing, viz.: the certificate, Mr.
Clavering's letters, and such leaves from Eleanore's diary as referred
to this matter. It was then handed over to me with the stipulation I
have already mentioned, and I stowed it away in a certain closet
upstairs, where it has lain undisturbed till last night.

Here Mrs. Belden paused, and, blushing painfully, raised her eyes to
mine with a look in which anxiety and entreaty were curiously blended.

"I don't know what you will say," she began, "but, led away by my
fears, I took that box out of its hiding-place last evening and,
notwithstanding your advice, carried it from the house, and it is
now----"

"In my possession," I quietly finished.

I don't think I ever saw her look more astounded, not even when I
told her of Hannah's death. "Impossible!" she exclaimed. "I left it
last night in the old barn that was burned down. I merely meant to hide
it for the present, and could think of no better place in my hurry;
for the barn is said to be haunted--a man hung himself there once --
and no one ever goes there. I--I--you cannot have it!" she cried,
"unless----"

"Unless I found and brought it away before the barn was destroyed,"
I suggested.

Her face flushed deeper. "Then you followed me?"

"Yes," said I. Then, as I felt my own countenance redden, hastened
to add: "We have been playing strange and unaccustomed parts, you and
I. Some time, when all these dreadful events shall be a mere dream of
the past, we will ask each other's pardon. But never mind all this now.
The box is safe, and I am anxious to hear the rest of your story."

This seemed to compose her, and after a minute she continued:

Mary seemed more like herself after this. And though, on account of
Mr. Leavenworth's return and their subsequent preparations for
departure, I saw but little more of her, what I did see was enough to
make me fear that, with the locking up of the proofs of her marriage,
she was indulging the idea that the marriage itself had become void.
But I may have wronged her in this.

The story of those few weeks is almost finished. On the eve of the
day before she left, Mary came to my house to bid me good-by. She had a
present in her hand the value of which I will not state, as I did not
take it, though she coaxed me with all her prettiest wiles. But she
said something that night that I have never been able to forget. It was
this. I had been speaking of my hope that before two months had elapsed
she would find herself in a position to send for Mr. Clavering, and
that when that day came I should wish to be advised of it; when she
suddenly interrupted me by saying:

"Uncle will never be won upon, as you call it, while he lives. If I
was convinced of it before, I am sure of it now. Nothing but his death
will ever make it possible for me to send for Mr. Clavering." Then,
seeing me look aghast at the long period of separation which this
seemed to betoken, blushed a little and whispered: "The prospect
looks somewhat dubious, doesn't it? But if Mr. Clavering loves me, he
can wait."

"But," said I, "your uncle is only little past the prime of life
and appears to be in robust health; it will be years of waiting, Mary."

"I don't know," she muttered, "I think not. Uncle is not as strong
as he looks and--" She did not say any more, horrified perhaps at the
turn the conversation was taking. But there was an expression on her
countenance that set me thinking at the time, and has kept me thinking
ever since.

Not that any actual dread of such an occurrence as has since
happened came to oppress my solitude during the long months which now
intervened. I was as yet too much under the spell of her charm to allow
anything calculated to throw a shadow over her image to remain long in
my thoughts. But when, some time in the fall, a letter came to me
personally from Mr. Clavering, filled with a vivid appeal to tell him
something of the woman who, in spite of her vows, doomed him to a
suspense so cruel, and when, on the evening of the same day, a friend
of mine who had just returned from New York spoke of meeting Mary
Leavenworth at some gathering, surrounded by manifest admirers, I began
to realize the alarming features of the affair, and, sitting down, I
wrote her a letter. Not in the strain in which I had been accustomed to
talk to her,--I had not her pleading eyes and trembling, caressing
hands ever before me to beguile my judgment from its proper exercise,
--but honestly and earnestly, telling her how Mr. Clavering felt, and
what a risk she ran in keeping so ardent a lover from his rights. The
reply she sent rather startled me.

"I have put Mr. Robbins out of my calculations for the present, and
advise you to do the same. As for the gentleman himself, I have told
him that when I could receive him I would be careful to notify him.
That day has not yet come.

"But do not let him be discouraged," she added in a postscript.
"When he does receive his happiness, it will be _a_ satisfying one."

_When,
_I thought. Ah, it is that _when_ which is likely to ruin all!
But, intent only upon fulfilling her will, I sat down and wrote a
letter to Mr. Clavering, in which I stated what she had said, and
begged him to have patience, adding that I would surely let him know if
any change took place in Mary or her circumstances. And, having
despatched it to his address in London, awaited the development of
events.

They were not slow in transpiring. In two weeks I heard of the
sudden death of Mr. Stebbins, the minister who had married them; and
while yet laboring under the agitation produced by this shock, was
further startled by seeing in a New York paper the name of Mr.
Clavering among the list of arrivals at the Hoffman House; showing
that my letter to him had failed in its intended effect, and that the
patience Mary had calculated upon so blindly was verging to its end. I
was consequently far from being surprised when, in a couple of weeks or
so afterwards, a letter came from him to my address, which, owing to
the careless omission of the private mark upon the envelope, I opened,
and read enough to learn that, driven to desperation by the constant
failures which he had experienced in all his endeavors to gain access
to her in public or private, _a._ failure which he was not
backward in ascribing to her indisposition to see him, he had made up
his mind to risk everything, even her displeasure; and, by making an
appeal to her uncle, end the suspense under which he was laboring,
definitely and at once. "I want you," he wrote; "dowered or
dowerless, it makes little difference to me. If you will not come of
yourself, then I must follow the example of the brave knights, my
ancestors; storm the castle that holds you, and carry you off by force
of arms."

Neither can I say I was much surprised, knowing Mary as I did, when,
in a few days from this, she forwarded to me for copying, this reply:
"If Mr. Rob-bins ever expects to be happy with Amy Belden, let him
reconsider the determination of which he speaks. Not only would he by
such an action succeed in destroying the happiness of her he professes
to love, but run the greater risk of effectually annulling the
affection which makes the tie between them endurable."

To this there was neither date nor signature. It was the cry of
warning which a spirited, self-contained creature gives when brought to
bay. It made even me recoil, though I had known from the first that her
pretty wilfulness was but the tossing foam floating above the soundless
depths of cold resolve and most deliberate purpose.

What its real effect was upon him and her fate I can only
conjecture. All I know is that in two weeks thereafter Mr. Leavenworth
was found murdered in his room, and Hannah Chester, coming direct to my
door from the scene of violence, begged me to take her in and secrete
her from public inquiry, as I loved and desired to serve Mary
Leavenworth.



XXXIII. UNEXPECTED TESTIMONY

    _Pol._What do you read, my lord?
    _Ham._ Words, words, words.[/b]_

        --Hamlet.

MRS. BELDEN paused, lost in the sombre shadow which these words were
calculated to evoke, and a short silence fell upon the room. It was
broken by my asking for some account of the occurrence she had just
mentioned, it being considered a mystery how Hannah could have found
entrance into her house without the knowledge of the neighbors.

"Well," said she, "it was a chilly night, and I had gone to bed
early (I was sleeping then in the room off this) when, at about a
quarter to one--the last train goes through R---- at 12.50--there
came a low knock on the window-pane at the head of my bed. Thinking
that some of the neighbors were sick, I hurriedly rose on my elbow and
asked who was there. The answer came in low, muffled tones, 'Hannah,
Miss Leavenworth's girl! Please let me in at the kitchen door.'
Startled at hearing the well-known voice, and fearing I knew not what,
I caught up a lamp and hurried round to the door. 'Is any one with you?'
I asked. 'No,' she replied. 'Then come in.' But no sooner had she
done so than my strength failed me, and I had to sit down, for I saw
she looked very pale and strange, was without baggage, and altogether
had the appearance of some wandering spirit. 'Hannah!' I gasped, '
what is it? what has happened? what brings you here in this condition
and at this time of night?' 'Miss Leavenworth has sent me,' she
replied, in the low, monotonous tone of one repeating a lesson by rote.
'She told me to come here; said you would keep me. I am not to go out
of the house, and no one is to know I am here.' 'But why?' I asked,
trembling with a thousand undefined fears; 'what has occurred?' 'I
dare not say,' she whispered; 'I am forbid; I am just to stay here,
and keep quiet.' 'But,' I began, helping her to take off her
shawl,--the dingy blanket advertised for in the papers--'you must tell
me. She surely did not forbid you to tell _me?_' 'Yes she did;
every one,' the girl replied, growing white in her persistence, 'and I
never break my word; fire couldn't draw it out of me.' She looked so
determined, so utterly unlike herself, as I remembered her in the meek,
unobtrusive days of our old acquaintance, that I could do nothing but
stare at her. 'You will keep me,' she said; 'you will not turn me
away?' 'No,' I said, 'I will not turn you away.' 'And tell no one?'
she went on. 'And tell no one,' I repeated.

"This seemed to relieve her. Thanking me, she quietly followed me
up-stairs. I put her into the room in which you found her, because it
was the most secret one in the house; and there she has remained ever
since, satisfied and contented, as far as I could see, till this very
same horrible day."

"And is that all?" I asked. "Did you have no explanation with
her afterwards? Did she never give you any information in regard to
the transactions which led to her flight?"

"No, sir. She kept a most persistent silence. Neither then nor when,
upon the next day, I confronted her with the papers in my hand, and the
awful question upon my lips as to whether her flight had been
occasioned by the murder which had taken place in Mr. Leavenworth's
household, did she do more than acknowledge she had run away on this
account. Some one or something had sealed her lips, and, as she said, '
Fire and torture should never make her speak.'"

Another short pause followed this; then, with my mind still hovering
about the one point of intensest interest to me, I said:

"This story, then, this account which you have just given me of
Mary Leavenworth's secret marriage and the great strait it put her into
--a strait from which nothing but her uncle's death could relieve her
--together with this acknowledgment of Hannah's that she had left home
and taken refuge here on the insistence of Mary Leavenworth, is the
groundwork you have for the suspicions you have mentioned?"

"Yes, sir; that and the proof of her interest in the matter which
is given by the letter I received from her yesterday, and which you say
you have now in your possession."

Oh, that letter!

"I know," Mrs. Belden went on in a broken voice, "that it is
wrong, in a serious case like this, to draw hasty conclusions; but,
oh, sir, how can I help it, knowing what I do?"

I did not answer; I was revolving in my mind the old question: was
it possible, in face of all these later developments, still to believe
Mary Leavenworth's own hand guiltless of her uncle's blood?

"It is dreadful to come to such conclusions," proceeded Mrs. Belden,
"and nothing but her own words written in her own hand would ever have
driven me to them, but----"

"Pardon me," I interrupted; "but you said in the beginning of
this interview that you did not believe Mary herself had any direct
hand in her uncle's murder. Are you ready to repeat that assertion?"

"Yes, yes, indeed. Whatever I may think of her influence in
inducing it, I never could imagine her as having anything to do with
its actual performance. Oh, no! oh, no! whatever was done on that
dreadful night, Mary Leavenworth never put hand to pistol or ball, or
even stood by while they were used; that you may be sure of. Only the
man who loved her, longed for her, and felt the impossibility of
obtaining her by any other means, could have found nerve for an act so
horrible."

"Then you think----"

"Mr. Clavering is the man? I do: and oh, sir, when you consider
that he is her husband, is it not dreadful enough?"

"It is, indeed," said I, rising to conceal how much I was affected
by this conclusion of hers.

Something in my tone or appearance seemed to startle her. "I hope
and trust I have not been indiscreet," she cried, eying me with
something like an incipient distrust. "With this dead girl lying in my
house, I ought to be very careful, I know, but----"

"You have said nothing," was my earnest assurance as I edged
towards the door in my anxiety to escape, if but for a moment, from an
atmosphere that was stifling me. "No one can blame you for anything
you have either said or done to-day. But"--and here I paused and
walked hurriedly back,--" I wish to ask one question more. Have you any
reason, beyond that of natural repugnance to believing a young and
beautiful woman guilty of a great crime, for saying what you have of
Henry Clavering, a gentleman who has hitherto been mentioned by you
with respect?"

"No," she whispered, with a touch of her old agitation.

I felt the reason insufficient, and turned away with something of
the same sense of suffocation with which I had heard that the missing
key had been found in Eleanore Leavenworth's possession. "You must
excuse me," I said; "I want to be a moment by myself, in order to
ponder over the facts which I have just heard; I will soon return ";
and without further ceremony, hurried from the room.

By some indefinable impulse, I went immediately up-stairs, and took
my stand at the western window of the large room directly over Mrs.
Belden. The blinds were closed; the room was shrouded in funereal
gloom, but its sombreness and horror were for the moment unfelt; I was
engaged in a fearful debate with myself. Was Mary Leavenworth the
principal, or merely the accessory, in this crime? Did the determined
prejudice of Mr. Gryce, the convictions of Eleanore, the circumstantial
evidence even of such facts as had come to our knowledge, preclude the
possibility that Mrs. Belden's conclusions were correct? That all the
detectives interested in the affair would regard the question as
settled, I did not doubt; but need it be? Was it utterly impossible to
find evidence yet that Henry Clavering was, after all, the assassin of
Mr. heaven-worth?

Filled with the thought, I looked across the room to the closet
where lay the body of the girl who, according to all probability, had
known the truth of the matter, and a great longing seized me. Oh, why
could not the dead be made to speak? Why should she lie there so
silent, so pulseless, so inert, when a word from her were enough to
decide the awful question? Was there no power to compel those pallid
lips to move?

Carried away by the fervor of the moment, I made my way to her side.
Ah, God, how still! With what a mockery the closed lips and lids
confronted my demanding gaze! A stone could not have been more
unresponsive.

With a feeling that was almost like anger, I stood there, when--
what was it I saw protruding from beneath her shoulders where they
crushed against the bed? An envelope? a letter? Yes.

Dizzy with the sudden surprise, overcome with the wild hopes this
discovery awakened, I stooped in great agitation and drew the letter
out. It was sealed but not directed. Breaking it hastily open, I took a
glance at its contents. Good heavens! it was the work of the girl
herself!--its very appearance was enough to make that evident! Feeling
as if a miracle had happened, I hastened with it into the other room,
and set myself to decipher the awkward scrawl.

This is what I saw, rudely printed in lead pencil on the inside of a
sheet of common writing-paper:

"I am a wicked girl. I have knone things all the time which I had
ought to have told but I didn't dare to he said he would kill me if I
did I mene the tall splendud looking gentulman with the black mustash
who I met coming out of Mister Levenworth's room with a key in his hand
the night Mr. Levenworth was murdered. He was so scared he gave me
money and made me go away and come here and keep every thing secret but
I can't do so no longer. I seem to see Miss Blenor all the time crying
and asking me if I want her sent to prisuu. God knows I 'd rathur die.
And this is the truth and my last words and I pray every body's
forgivness and hope nobody will blame me and that they wont bother Miss
Elenor any more but go and look after the handsome gentulman with the
black mushtash."



BOOK IV. THE PROBLEM SOLVED



XXXIV. MR. GRYCE RESUMES CONTROL

    "It out-herods Herod."
        --Hamlet.

    "A thing devised by the enemy."
        --Richard III

A HALF-HOUR had passed. The train upon which I had every reason to
expect Mr. Gryce had arrived, and I stood in the doorway awaiting with
indescribable agitation the slow and labored approach of the motley
group of men and women whom I had observed leave the depot at the
departure of the cars. Would he be among them? Was the telegram of a
nature peremptory enough to make his presence here, sick as he was, an
absolute certainty? The written confession of Hannah throbbing against
my heart, a heart all elation now, as but a short half-hour before it
had been all doubt and struggle, seemed to rustle distrust, and the
prospect of a long afternoon spent in impatience was rising before me,
when a portion of the advancing crowd turned off into a side street,
and I saw the form of Mr. Gryce hobbling, not on two sticks, but very
painfully on one, coming slowly down the street.

His face, as he approached, was a study.

"Well, well, well," he exclaimed, as we met at the gate; "this is
a pretty how-dye-do, I must say. Hannah dead, eh? and everything
turned topsy-turvy! Humph, and what do you think of Mary Leavenworth
now?"

It would therefore seem natural, in the conversation which followed
his introduction into the house and installment in Mrs. Belden's
parlor, that I should begin my narration by showing him Hannah's
confession; but it was not so. Whether it was that I felt anxious to
have him go through the same alternations of hope and fear it had been
my lot to experience since I came to R----; or whether, in the
depravity of human nature, there lingered within me sufficient
resentment for the persistent disregard he had always paid to my
suspicions of Henry Clavering to make it a matter of moment to me to
spring this knowledge upon him just at the instant his own convictions
seemed to have reached the point of absolute certainty, I cannot say.
Enough that it was not till I had given him a full account of every
other matter connected with my stay in this house; not till I saw his
eye beaming, and his lip quivering with the excitement incident upon
the perusal of the letter from Mary, found in Mrs. Belden's pocket;
not, indeed, until I became assured from such expressions as
"Tremendous! The deepest game of the season! Nothing like it since the
Lafarge affair!" that in another moment he would be uttering some
theory or belief that once heard would forever stand like a barrier
between us, did I allow myself to hand him the letter I had taken from
under the dead body of Hannah.

I shall never forget his expression as he received it; "Good
heavens!" cried he, "what's this?"

"A dying confession of the girl Hannah. I found it lying in her bed
when I went up, a half-hour ago, to take a second look at her."

Opening it, he glanced over it with an incredulous air that
speedily, however, turned to one of the utmost astonishment, as he
hastily perused it, and then stood turning it over and over in his
hand, examining it.

"A remarkable piece of evidence," I observed, not without a certain
feeling of triumph; "quite changes the aspect of affairs!"

"Think so?" he sharply retorted; then, whilst I stood staring at
him in amazement, his manner was so different from what I expected,
looked up and said: "You tell me that you found this in her bed.
Whereabouts in her bed?"

"Under the body of the girl herself," I returned. "I saw one
corner of it protruding from beneath her shoulders, and drew it out."

He came and stood before me. "Was it folded or open, when you first
looked at it?"

"Folded; fastened up in this envelope," showing it to him.

He took it, looked at it for a moment, and went on with his
questions.

"This envelope has a very crumpled appearance, as well as the
letter itself. Were they so when you found them?"

"Yes, not only so, but doubled up as you see."

"Doubled up? You are sure of that? Folded, sealed, and then
doubled up as if her body had rolled across it while alive?"

"Yes."

"No trickery about it? No look as if the thing had been insinuated
there since her death?"

"Not at all. I should rather say that to every appearance she held
it in her hand when she lay down, but turning over, dropped it and then
laid upon it."

Mr. Gryce's eyes, which had been very bright, ominously clouded;
evidently he had been disappointed in my answers, paying the letter
down, he stood musing, but suddenly lifted it again, scrutinized the
edges of the paper on which it was written, and, darting me a quick
look, vanished with it into the shade of the window curtain. His manner
was so peculiar, I involuntarily rose to follow; but he waved me back,
saying:

"Amuse yourself with that box on the table, which you had such an
ado over; see if it contains all we have a right to expect to find in
it. I want to be by myself for a moment."

Subduing my astonishment, I proceeded to comply with his request,
but scarcely had I lifted the lid of the box before me when he came
hurrying back, flung the letter down on the table with an air of the
greatest excitement, and cried:

"Did I say there had never been anything like it since the Lafarge
affair? I tell you there has never been anything like it in any
affair. It is the rummest case on record! Mr. Raymond," and his eyes,
in his excitement, actually met mine for the first time in my
experience of him, "prepare yourself for a disappointment. This
pretended confession of Hannah's is a fraud!"

"A fraud?"

"Yes; fraud, forgery, what you will; the girl never wrote it."

Amazed, outraged almost, I bounded from my chair. "How do you know
that?" I cried.

Bending forward, he put the letter into my hand. "Look at it," said
he; "examine it closely. Now tell me what is the first thing you
notice in regard to it?"

"Why, the first thing that strikes me, is that the words are
printed, instead of written; something which might be expected from
this girl, according to all accounts."

"Well?"

"That they are printed on the inside of a sheet of ordinary
paper----"

"Ordinary paper?"

"Yes."

"That is, a sheet of commercial note of the ordinary quality."

"Of course."

"But is it?"

"Why, yes; I should say so."

"Look at the lines."

"What of them? Oh, I see, they run up close to the top of the page;
evidently the scissors have been used here."

"In short, it is a large sheet, trimmed down to the size of
commercial note?"

"Yes."

"And is that all you see?"

"All but the words."

"Don't you perceive what has been lost by means of this trimming
down?"

"No, unless you mean the manufacturer's stamp in the corner." Mr.
Gryce's glance took meaning. "But I don't see why the loss of that
should be deemed a matter of any importance."

"Don't you? Not when you consider that by it we seem to be
deprived of all opportunity of tracing this sheet back to the quire of
paper from which it was taken?"

"No."

"Humph! then you are more of an amateur than I thought you. Don't
you see that, as Hannah could have had no motive for concealing where
the paper came from on which she wrote her dying words, this sheet must
have been prepared by some one else?"

"No," said I; "I cannot say that I see all that."

"Can't! Well then, answer me this. Why should Hannah, a girl about
to commit suicide, care whether any clue was furnished, in her
confession, to the actual desk, drawer, or quire of paper from which
the sheet was taken, on which she wrote it?"

"She wouldn't."

"Yet especial pains have been taken to destroy that clue."

"But----"

"Then there is another thing. Read the confession itself, Mr.
Raymond, and tell me what you gather from it."

"Why," said I, after complying, "that the girl, worn out with
constant apprehension, has made up her mind to do away with herself,
and that Henry Clavering----"

"Henry Clavering?"

The interrogation was put with so much meaning, I looked up. "Yes,"
said I.

"Ah, I didn't know that Mr. Clavering's name was mentioned there;
excuse me."

"His name is not mentioned, but a description is given so
strikingly in accordance----"

Here Mr. Gryce interrupted me. "Does it not seem a little
surprising to you that a girl like Hannah should have stopped to
describe a man she knew by name?"

I started; it was unnatural surely.

"You believe Mrs. Belden's story, don't you?"

"Yes."

"Consider her accurate in her relation of what took place here a
year ago?"

"I do."

"Must believe, then, that Hannah, the go-between, was acquainted
with Mr. Clavering and with his name?"

"Undoubtedly."

"Then why didn't she use it? If her intention was, as she here
professes, to save Eleanore Leavenworth from the false imputation which
had fallen upon her, she would naturally take the most direct method of
doing it. This description of a man whose identity she could have at
once put beyond a doubt by the mention of his name is the work, not of
a poor, ignorant girl, but of some person who, in attempting to play
the _role_ of one, has signally failed. But that is not all. Mrs.
Belden, according to you, maintains that Hannah told her, upon entering
the house, that Mary Leavenworth sent her here. But in this document,
she declares it to have been the work of Black Mustache."

"I know; but could they not have both been parties to the
transaction?"

"Yes," said he; "yet it is always a suspicious circumstance, when
there is a discrepancy between the written and spoken declaration of a
person. But why do we stand here fooling, when a few words from this
Mrs. Belden, you talk so much about, will probably settle the whole
matter!"

"A few words from Mrs. Belden," I repeated. "I have had thousands
from her to-day, and find the matter no nearer settled than in the
beginning."

"_You_ have had," said he, "but I have not. Fetch her in, Mr.
Raymond."

I rose. "One thing," said I, "before I go. What if Hannah had
found the sheet of paper, trimmed just as it is, and used it without
any thought of the suspicions it would occasion!"

"Ah!" said he, "that is just what we are going to find out."

Mrs. Belden was in a flutter of impatience when I entered the
sitting-room. When did I think the coroner would come? and what did I
imagine this detective would do for us? It was dreadful waiting there
alone for something, she knew not what.

I calmed her as well as I could, telling her the detective had not
yet informed me what he could do, having some questions to ask her
first. Would she come in to see him? She rose with alacrity. Anything
was better than suspense.

Mr. Gryce, who in the short interim of my absence had altered his
mood from the severe to the beneficent, received Mrs. Belden with just
that show of respectful courtesy likely to impress a woman as dependent
as she upon the good opinion of others.

"Ah! and this is the lady in whose house this very disagreeable
event has occurred," he exclaimed, partly rising in his enthusiasm to
greet her. "May I request you to sit," he asked; "if a stranger may
be allowed to take the liberty of inviting a lady to sit in her own
house."

"It does not seem like my own house any longer," said she, but in a
sad, rather than an aggressive tone; so much had his genial way
imposed upon her." Little better than a prisoner here, go and come,
keep silence or speak, just as I am bidden; and all because an unhappy
creature, whom I took in for the most unselfish of motives, has chanced
to die in my house!"

"Just so!" exclaimed Mr. Gryce; "it is very unjust. But perhaps
we can right matters. I have every reason to believe we can. This
sudden death ought to be easily explained. You say you had no poison in
the house?"

"No, sir."

"And that the girl never went out?"

"Never, sir."

"And that no one has ever been here to see her?"

"No one, sir."

"So that she could not have procured any such thing if she had
wished?"

"No, sir."

"Unless," he added suavely, "she had it with her when she came
here?"

"That couldn't have been, sir. She brought no baggage; and as for
her pocket, I know everything there was in it, for I looked."

"And what did you find there?"

"Some money in bills, more than you would have expected such a girl
to have, some loose pennies, and a common handkerchief."

"Well, then, it is proved the girl didn't die of poison, there
being none in the house."

He said this in so convinced a tone she was deceived.

"That is just what I have been telling Mr. Raymond," giving me a
triumphant look.

"Must have been heart disease," he went on, "You say she was
well yesterday?"

"Yes, sir; or seemed so."

"Though not cheerful?"

"I did not say that; she was, sir, very."

"What, ma'am, this girl?" giving me a look. "I don't understand
that. I should think her anxiety about those she had left behind her in
the city would have been enough to keep her from being very cheerful."

"So you would," returned Mrs. Belden; "but it wasn't so. On the
contrary, she never seemed to worry about them at all."

"What! not about Miss Eleanore, who, according to the papers,
stands in so cruel a position before the world? But perhaps she didn't
know anything about that--Miss Leavenworth's position, I mean?"

"Yes, she did, for I told her. I was so astonished I could not keep
it to myself. You see, I had always considered Eleanore as one above
reproach, and it so shocked me to see her name mentioned in the
newspaper in such a connection, that I went to Hannah and read the
article aloud, and watched her face to see how she took it."

"And how did she?"

"I can't say. She looked as if she didn't understand; asked me why
I read such things to her, and told me she didn't want to hear any more;
that I had promised not to trouble her about this murder, and that if
I continued to do so she wouldn't listen."

"Humph! and what else?"

"Nothing else. She put her hand over her ears and frowned in such a
sullen way I left the room."

"That was when?"

"About three weeks ago."

"She has, however, mentioned the subject since?"

"No, sir; not once."

"What! not asked what they were going to do with her mistress?"

"No, sir."

"She has shown, however, that something was preying on her mind--
fear, remorse, or anxiety?"

"No, sir; on the contrary, she has oftener appeared like one
secretly elated."

"But," exclaimed Mr. Gryce, with another sidelong look at me,
"that was very strange and unnatural. I cannot account for it."

"Nor I, sir. I used to try to explain it by thinking her
sensibilities had been blunted, or that she was too ignorant to
comprehend the seriousness of what had happened; but as I learned to
know her better, I gradually changed my mind. There was too much method
in her gayety for that. I could not help seeing she had some future
before her for which she was preparing herself. As, for instance, she
asked me one day if I thought she could learn to play on the piano. And
I finally came to the conclusion she had been promised money if she
kept the secret intrusted to her, and was so pleased with the prospect
that she forgot the dreadful past, and all connected with it. At all
events, that was the only explanation I could find for her general
industry and desire to improve herself, or for the complacent smiles I
detected now and then stealing over her face when she didn't know I was
looking."

Not such a smile as crept over the countenance of Mr. Gryce at that
moment, I warrant.

"It was all this," continued Mrs. Belden, "which made her death
such a shock to me. I couldn't believe that so cheerful and healthy a
creature could die like that, all in one night, without anybody knowing
anything about it. But----"

"Wait one moment," Mr. Gryce here broke in. "You speak of her
endeavors to improve herself. What do you mean by that?"

"Her desire to learn things she didn't know; as, for instance, to
write and read writing. She could only clumsily print when she came
here."

I thought Mr. Gryce would take a piece out of my arm, he griped it
so.

"When she came here! Do you mean to say that since she has been
with you she has learned to write?"

"Yes, sir; I used to set her copies and----"

"Where are these copies?" broke in Mr. Gryce, subduing his voice to
its most professional tone. "And where are her attempts at writing?
I'd like to see some of them. Can't you get them for us?"

"I don't know, sir. I always made it a point to destroy them as
soon as they had answered their purpose. I didn't like to have such
things lying around. But I will go see."

"Do," said he; "and I will go with you. I want to take a look at
things upstairs, any way." And, heedless of his rheumatic feet, he
rose and prepared to accompany her.

"This is getting very intense," I whispered, as he passed me.

The smile he gave me in reply would have made the fortune of a
Thespian Mephistopheles.

Of the ten minutes of suspense which I endured in their absence, I
say nothing. At the end of that time they returned with their hands
full of paper boxes, which they flung down on the table.

"The writing-paper of the household," observed Mr. Gryce; "every
scrap and half-sheet which could be found. But, before you examine it,
look at this." And he held out a sheet of bluish foolscap, on which
were written some dozen imitations of that time-worn copy, "BE GOOD
AND YOU WILL BE HAPPY"; with an occasional "_Beauty soon fades,"_
and "_Evil communications corrupt good manners."_

"What do you think of that?"

"Very neat and very legible."

"That is Hannah's latest. The only specimens of her writing to be
found. Not much like some scrawls we have seen, eh?"

"No."

"Mrs. Belden says this girl has known how to write as good as this
for more than a week. Took great pride in it, and was continually
talking about how smart she was." Leaning over, he whispered in my ear,
"This thing you have in your hand must have been scrawled some time
ago, if she did it." Then aloud: "But let us look at the paper she
used to write on."

Dashing open the covers of the boxes on the table, he took out the
loose sheets lying inside, and scattered them out before me. One glance
showed they were all of an utterly different quality from that used in
the confession. "This is all the paper in the house," said he.

"Are you sure of that?" I asked, looking at Mrs. Belden, who
stood in a sort of maze before us. "Wasn't there one stray sheet
lying around somewhere, foolscap or something like that, which she
might have got hold of and used without your knowing it?"

"No, sir; I don't think so. I had only these kinds; besides, Hannah
had a whole pile of paper like this in her room, and wouldn't have been
apt to go hunting round after any stray sheets."

"But you don't know what a girl like that might do. Look at this
one," said I, showing her the blank side of the confession. "Couldn't
a sheet like this have come from somewhere about the house? Examine it
well; the matter is important."

"I have, and I say, no, I never had a sheet of paper like that in
my house."

Mr. Gryce advanced and took the confession from my hand. As he did
so, he whispered: "What do you think now? Many chances that Hannah
got up this precious document?"

I shook my head, convinced at last; but in another moment turned to
him and whispered back: "But, if Hannah didn't write it, who did? And
how came it to be found where it was?"

"That," said he, "is just what is left for us to learn." And,
beginning again, he put question after question concerning the girl's
life in the house, receiving answers which only tended to show that she
could not have brought the confession with her, much less received it
from a secret messenger. Unless we doubted Mrs. Belden's word, the
mystery seemed impenetrable, and I was beginning to despair of success,
when Mr. Gryce, with an askance look at me, leaned towards Mrs. Belden
and said:

"You received a letter from Miss Mary Leavenworth yesterday, I
hear."

"Yes, sir."

"_This_ letter?" he continued, showing it to her.

"Yes, sir."

"Now I want to ask you a question. Was the letter, as you see it,
the only contents of the envelope in which it came? Wasn't there one
for Hannah enclosed with it?"

"No, sir. There was nothing in my letter for her; but she had a
letter herself yesterday. It came in the same mail with mine."

"Hannah had a letter! "we both exclaimed; "and in the mail?"

"Yes; but it was not directed to her. It was"--casting me a look
full of despair, "directed to me. It was only by a certain mark in the
corner of the envelope that I knew----"

"Good heaven!" I interrupted; "where is this letter? Why didn't
you speak of it before? What do you mean by allowing us to flounder
about here in the dark, when a glimpse at this letter might have set us
right at once?"

"I didn't think anything about it till this minute. I didn't know
it was of importance. I----"

But I couldn't restrain myself. "Mrs. Belden, where is this letter?"
I demanded. "Have you got it?"

"No," said she; "I gave it to the girl yesterday; I haven't seen
it since."

"It must be upstairs, then. let us take another look," and I
hastened towards the door.

"You won't find it," said Mr. Gryce at my elbow. "I have looked.
There is nothing but a pile of burned paper in the corner. By the way,
what could that have been?" he asked of Mrs. Belden.

"I don't know, sir. She hadn't anything to burn unless it was the
letter."

"We will see about that," I muttered, hurrying upstairs and
bringing down the wash-bowl with its contents. "If the letter was the
one I saw in your hand at the post-office, it was in a yellow envelope."

"Yes, sir."

"Yellow envelopes burn differently from white paper. I ought to be
able to tell the tinder made by a yellow envelope when I see it. Ah,
the letter has been destroyed; here is a piece of the envelope," and I
drew out of the heap of charred scraps a small bit less burnt than the
rest, and held it up.

"Then there is no use looking here for what the letter contained,"
said Mr. Gryce, putting the wash-bowl aside. "We will have to ask you,
Mrs. Belden."

"But I don't know. It was directed to me, to be sure; but Hannah
told me, when she first requested me to teach her how to write, that
she expected such a letter, so I didn't open it when it came, but gave
it to her just as it was."

"You, however, stayed by to see her read it?"

"No, sir; I was in too much of a flurry. Mr. Raymond had just come
and I had no time to think of her. My own letter, too, was troubling
me."

"But you surely asked her some questions about it before the day
was out?"

"Yes, sir, when I went up with her tea things; but she had nothing
to say. Hannah could be as reticent as any one I ever knew, when she
pleased. She didn't even admit it was from her mistress."

"Ah! then you thought it was from Miss Leavenworth?"

"Why, yes, sir; what else was I to think, seeing that mark in the
corner? Though, to be sure, it might have been put there by Mr.
Clavering," she thoughtfully added.

"You say she was cheerful yesterday; was she so after receiving
this letter?"

"Yes, sir; as far as I could see. I wasn't with her long; the
necessity I felt of doing something with the box in my charge--but
perhaps Mr. Raymond has told you?"

Mr. Gryce nodded.

"It was an exhausting evening, and quite put Hannah out of my head,
but----"

"Wait!" cried Mr. Gryce, and beckoning me into a corner, he
whispered, "Now comes in that experience of Q's. While you are gone
from the house, and before Mrs. Belden sees Hannah again, he has a
glimpse of the girl bending over something in the corner of her room
which may very fairly be the wash-bowl we found there. After which, he
sees her swallow, in the most lively way, a dose of something from a
bit of paper. Was there anything more?"

"No," said I.

"Very well, then," he cried, going back to Mrs. Belden. "But----"

"But when I went upstairs to bed, I thought of the girl, and going
to her door opened it. The light was extinguished, and she seemed
asleep, so I closed it again and came out."

"Without speaking?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did you notice how she was lying?"

"Not particularly. I think on her back."

"In something of the same position in which she was found this
morning?"

"Yes, sir."

"And that is all you can tell us, either of her letter or her
mysterious death?"

"All, sir."

Mr. Gryce straightened himself up.

"Mrs. Belden," said he, "you know Mr. Clavering's handwriting when
_yon_ see it?"

"I do."

"And Miss Leavenworth's?"

"Yes, sir."

"Now, which of the two was upon the envelope of the letter you gave
Hannah?"

"I couldn't say. It was a disguised handwriting and might have been
that of either; but I think----"

"Well?"

"That it was more like hers than his, though it wasn't like hers
either."

With a smile, Mr. Gryce enclosed the confession in his hand in the
envelope in which it had been found. "You remember how large the
letter was which you gave her?"

"Oh, it was large, very large; one of the largest sort."

"And thick?"

"O yes; thick enough for two letters."

"Large enough and thick enough to contain this?" laying the
confession, folded and enveloped as it was, before her."

"Yes, sir," giving it a look of startled amazement, "large enough
and thick enough to contain that."

Mr. Gryce's eyes, bright as diamonds, flashed around the room, and
finally settled upon a fly traversing my coat-sleeve. "Do you need
to ask now," he whispered, in a low voice, "where, and from whom,
this so-called confession comes?"

He allowed himself one moment of silent triumph, then rising, began
folding the papers on the table and putting them in his pocket.

"What are you going to do?" I asked, hurriedly approaching.

He took me by the arm and led me across the hall into toe
sitting-room. "I am going back to New York, ram going to pursue this
matter. I am going to find out from, whom came the poison which killed
this girl, and by whose hand this vile forgery of a confession was
written."

"But," said I, rather thrown off my balance by all this, "Q
and the coroner will be here presently, won't you wait to see them?"

"No; clues such as are given here must be followed while the trail
is hot; I can't afford to wait."

"If I am not mistaken, they have already come," I remarked, as a
tramping of feet without announced that some one stood at the door.

"That is so," he assented, hastening to let them in.

Judging from common experience, we had every reason to fear that an
immediate stop would be put to all proceedings on our part, as soon as
the coroner was introduced upon the scene. But happily for us and the
interest at stake, Dr. Fink, of R ---- , proved to be a very sensible
man. He had only to hear a true story of the affair to recognize at
once its importance and the necessity of the most cautious action in
the matter. Further, by a sort of sympathy with Mr. Gryce, all the more
remarkable that he had never seen him before, he expressed himself as
willing to enter into our plans, offering not only to allow us the
temporary use of such papers as we desired, but even undertaking to
conduct the necessary formalities of calling a jury and instituting an
inquest in such a way as to give us time for the investigations we
proposed to make.

The delay was therefore short. Mr. Gryce was enabled to take the
6:30 train for New York, and I to follow on the 10 p.m.,--the calling
of a jury, ordering of an autopsy, and final adjournment of the inquiry
till the following Tuesday, having all taken place in the interim.



XXXV. FINE WORK

    "No hinge nor loop
     To hang a doubt on!"
    "But yet the pity of it, Iago!
     Oh, Iago, the pity of it, Iago."
        --Othello.

One sentence dropped by Mr. Gryce before leaving R---- prepared me
for his next move.

"The clue to this murder is supplied by the paper on which the
confession is written. Find from whose desk or portfolio this especial
sheet was taken, and you find the double murderer," he had said.

Consequently, I was not surprised when, upon visiting his house,
early the next morning, I beheld him seated before a table on which lay
a lady's writing-desk and a pile of paper, till told the desk was
Eleanore's. Then I did show astonishment. "What," said I, "are you
not satisfied yet of her innocence?"

"O yes; but one must be thorough. No conclusion is valuable which
is not preceded by a full and complete investigation. Why," he cried,
casting his eyes complacently towards the fire-tongs, "I have even
been rummaging through Mr. Clavering's effects, though the confession
bears the proof upon its face that it could not have been written by
him. It is not enough to look for evidence where you expect to find it.
You must sometimes search for it where you don't. Now," said he,
drawing the desk before him, "I don't anticipate finding anything here
of a criminating character; but it is among the possibilities that I
may; and that is enough for a detective."

"Did you see Miss Leavenworth this morning?" I asked, as he
proceeded to fulfil his intention by emptying the contents of the desk
upon the table.

"Yes; I was unable to procure what I desired without it. And she
behaved very handsomely, gave me the desk with her own hands, and never
raised an objection. To be sure, she had little idea what I was looking
for; thought, perhaps, I wanted to make sure it did not contain the
letter about which so much has been said. But it would have made but
little difference if she had known the truth. This desk contains
nothing _we_ want."

"Was she well; and had she heard of Hannah's sudden death?"
I asked, in my irrepressible anxiety.

"Yes, and feels it, as you might expect her to. But let us see what
we have here," said he, pushing aside the desk, and drawing towards him
the stack of paper I have already referred to. "I found this pile, just
as you see it, in a drawer of the library table at Miss Mary
Leavenworth's house in Fifth Avenue. If I am not mistaken, it will
supply us with the clue we want."

"But----"

"But this paper is square, while that of the confession is of the
size and shape of commercial note? I know; but you remember the sheet
used in the confession was trimmed down. Let us compare the quality."

Taking the confession from his pocket and the sheet from the pile
before him, he carefully compared them, then held them out for my
inspection. A glance showed them to be alike in color.

"Hold them up to the light," said he.

I did so; the appearance presented by both was precisely alike.

"Now let us compare the ruling." And, laying them both down on the
table, he placed the edges of the two sheets together. The lines on the
one accommodated themselves to the lines on the other; and that
question was decided.

His triumph was assured. "I was convinced of it," said he. "From
the moment I pulled open that drawer and saw this mass of paper, I knew
the end was come."

"But," I objected, in my old spirit of combativeness, "isn't there
any room for doubt? This paper is of the commonest kind. Every family
on the block might easily have specimens of it in their library."

"That isn't so," he said. "It is letter size, and that has gone
out. Mr. Leavenworth used it for his manuscript, or I doubt if it would
have been found in his library. But, if you are still incredulous, let
us see what can be done," and jumping up, he carried the confession to
the window, looked at it this way and that, and, finally discovering
what he wanted, came back and, laying it before me, pointed out one of
the lines of ruling which was markedly heavier than the rest, and
another which was so faint as to be almost undistinguishable. "Defects
like these often run through a number of consecutive sheets," said he.
"If we could find the identical half-quire from which this was taken,
I might show you proof that would dispel every doubt," and taking up
the one that lay on top, he rapidly counted the sheets. There were but
eight. "It might have been taken from this one," said he; but, upon
looking closely at the ruling, he found it to be uniformly distinct.
"Humph! that won't do! "came from his lips.

The remainder of the paper, some dozen or so half-quires, looked
undisturbed. Mr. Gryce tapped his fingers on the table and a frown
crossed his face. "Such a pretty thing, if it could have been done!"
he longingly exclaimed. Suddenly he took up the next half-quire.
"Count the sheets," said he, thrusting it towards me, and himself
lifting another.

I did as I was bid. "Twelve."

He counted his and laid it down. "Go on with the rest," he cried.

I counted the sheets in the next; twelve. He counted those in the
one following, and paused. "Eleven!"

"Count again," I suggested.

He counted again, and quietly put them aside. "I made a mistake,"
said he.

But he was not to be discouraged. Taking another half-quire, he went
through with the same operation;--in vain. With a sigh of impatience
he flung it down on the table and looked up. "Halloo!" he cried,
"what is the matter?"

"There are but eleven sheets in this package," I said, placing it in
his hand.

The excitement he immediately evinced was contagious. Oppressed as I
was, I could not resist his eagerness. "Oh, beautiful!" he
exclaimed. "Oh, beautiful! See! the light on the inside, the heavy
one on the outside, and both in positions precisely corresponding to
those on this sheet of Hannah's. What do you think now? Is any further
proof necessary?"

"The veriest doubter must succumb before this," returned I.

With something like a considerate regard for my emotion, he turned
away. "I am obliged to congratulate myself, notwithstanding the
gravity of the discovery that has been made," said he. "It is so neat,
so very neat, and so conclusive. I declare I am myself astonished at
the perfection of the thing. But what a woman that is!" he suddenly
cried, in a tone of the greatest admiration. "What an intellect she
has! what shrewdness! what skill! I declare it is almost a pity to
entrap a woman who has done as well as this--taken a sheet from the
very bottom of the pile, trimmed it into another shape, and then,
remembering the girl couldn't write, put what she had to say into
coarse, awkward printing, Hannah-like. _Splendid_! or would have
been, if any other man than myself had had this thing in charge." And,
all animated and glowing with his enthusiasm, he eyed the chandelier
above him as if it were the embodiment of his own sagacity.

Sunk in despair, I let him go on.

"Could she have done any better?" he now asked. "Watched,
circumscribed as she was, could she have done any better? I hardly
think so; the fact of Hannah's having learned to write after she left
here was fatal. No, she could not have provided against that
contingency."

"Mr. Gryce," I here interposed, unable to endure this any longer;
"did you have an interview with Miss Mary Leavenworth this morning?"

"No," said he; "it was not in the line of my present purpose to
do so. I doubt, indeed, if she knew I was in her house. A servant maid
who has a grievance is a very valuable assistant to a detective. With
Molly at my side, I didn't need to pay my respects to the mistress."

"Mr. Gryce," I asked, after another moment of silent
self-congratulation on his part, and of desperate self-control on mine,
"what do you propose to do now? You have followed your clue to the
end and are satisfied. Such knowledge as this is the precursor of
action."

"Humph! we will see," he returned, going to his private desk and
bringing out the box of papers which we had no opportunity of looking
at while in R----. "First let us examine these documents, and see if
they do not contain some hint which may be of service to us." And
taking out the dozen or so loose sheets which had been torn from
Eleanore's Diary, he began turning them over.

While he was doing this, I took occasion to examine the contents of
the box. I found them to be precisely what Mrs. Belden had led me to
expect,--a certificate of marriage between Mary and Mr. Clavering and a
half-dozen or more letters. While glancing over the former, a short
exclamation from Mr. Gryce startled me into looking up.

"What is it?" I cried.

He thrust into my hand the leaves of Eleanore's Diary. "Read," said
he. "Most of it is a repetition of what you have already heard from
Mrs. Belden, though given from a different standpoint; but there is one
passage in it which, if I am not mistaken, opens up the way to an
explanation of this murder such as we have not had yet. Begin at the
beginning; you won't find it dull."

Dull! Eleanore's feelings and thoughts during that anxious time,
dull!

Mustering up my self-possession, I spread out the leaves in their
order and commenced:

"R----, July 6,-"

"Two days after they got there, you perceive," Mr. Gryce explained.

"--A gentleman was introduced to us to-day upon the _piazza_
whom I cannot forbear mentioning; first, because he is the most
perfect specimen of manly beauty I ever beheld, and secondly, because
Mary, who is usually so voluble where gentlemen are concerned, had
nothing to say when, in the privacy of our own apartment, I questioned
her as to the effect his appearance and conversation had made upon her.
The fact that he is an Englishman may have something to do with this;
Uncle's antipathy to every one of that nation being as well known to
her as to me. But somehow I cannot feel satisfied of this. Her
experience with Charlie Somerville has made me suspicious. What if the.
story of last summer were to be repeated here, with an Englishman for
the hero! But I will not allow myself to contemplate such a
possibility. Uncle will return in a few days, and then all
communication with one who, however prepossessing, is of a family and
race with whom it is impossible for us to unite ourselves, must of
necessity cease. I doubt if I should have thought twice of all this if
Mr. Clavering had not betrayed, upon his introduction to Mary, such
intense and unrestrained admiration.

"July 8. The old story is to be repeated. Mary not only submits to
the attentions of Mr. Clavering, but encourages them. To-day she sat
two hours at the piano singing over to him her favorite songs, and
to-night--But I will not put down every trivial circumstance that
comes under my observation; it is unworthy of me. And yet, how can I
shut my eyes when the happiness of so many I love is at stake!

"July 11. If Mr. Clavering is not absolutely in love with Mary, he
is on the verge of it. He is a very fine-looking man, and too honorable
to be trifled with in this reckless fashion.

"July 13. Mary's beauty blossoms like the rose. She was absolutely
wonderful to-night in scarlet and silver. I think her smile the
sweetest I ever beheld, and in this I am sure Mr. Clavering
passionately agrees with me; he never looked away from her to-night.
But it is not so easy to read _her_ heart. To be sure, she appears
anything but indifferent to his fine appearance, strong sense, and
devoted affection. But did she not deceive us into believing she loved
Charlie Somerville? In her case, blush and smile go for little, I
fear. Would it not be wiser under the circumstances to say, I hope?

"July 17. Oh, my heart! Mary came into my room this evening, and
absolutely startled me by falling at my side and burying her face in my
lap. 'Oh, Eleanore, Eleanore!' she murmured, quivering with what
seemed to me very happy sobs. But when I strove to lift her head to my
breast, she slid from my arms, and drawing herself up into her old
attitude of reserved pride, raised her hand as if to impose silence,
and haughtily left the room. There is but one interpretation to put
upon this. Mr. Clavering has expressed his sentiments, and she is
filled with that reckless delight which in its first flush makes one
insensible to the existence of barriers which have hitherto been deemed
impassable. When will Uncle come?

"July 18. little did I think when I wrote the above that Uncle was
already in the house. He arrived unexpectedly on the last train, and
came into my room just as I was putting away my diary. Looking a little
care-worn, he took me in his arms and then asked for Mary. I dropped my
head, and could not help stammering as I replied that she was in her
own room. Instantly his love took alarm, and leaving me, he hastened to
her apartment, where I afterwards learned he came upon her sitting
abstractedly before her dressing-table with Mr. Clavering's family ring
on her finger. I do not know what followed. An unhappy scene, I fear,
for Mary is ill this morning, and Uncle exceedingly melancholy and
stern.

"Afternoon. We are an unhappy family! Uncle not only refuses to
consider for a moment the question of Mary's alliance with Mr.
Clavering, but even goes so far as to demand his instant and
unconditional dismissal. The knowledge of this came to me in the most
distressing way. Recognizing the state of affairs, but secretly
rebelling against a prejudice which seemed destined to separate two
persons otherwise fitted for each other, I sought Uncle's presence this
morning after breakfast, and attempted to plead their cause. But he
almost instantly stopped me with the remark, 'You are the last one,
Eleanore, who should seek to promote this marriage.' Trembling with
apprehension, I asked him why. 'For the reason that by so doing you
work entirely for your own interest.' More and more troubled, I begged
him to explain himself. 'I mean,' said he, 'that if Mary disobeys me
by marrying this Englishman, I shall disinherit her, and substitute
your name for hers in my will as well as in my affection.'

For a moment everything swam before my eyes. 'You will never make
me so wretched!' I entreated. 'I will make you my heiress, if Mary
persists in her present determination,' he declared, and without
further word sternly left the room. What could I do but fall on my
knees and pray! Of all in this miserable house, I am the most
wretched. To supplant her! But I shall not be called upon to do it;
Mary will give up Mr. Clavering."

"There!" exclaimed Mr. Gryce. "What do you think of that? Isn't
it becoming plain enough what was Mary's motive for this murder? But
go on; let us hear what followed."

With sinking heart, I continued. The next entry is dated July 19,
and runs thus:

"I was right. After a long struggle with Uncle's invincible will,
Mary has consented to dismiss Mr. Clavering. I was in the room when she
made known her decision, and I shall never forget our Uncle's look of
gratified pride as he clasped her in his arms and called her his own
True Heart. He has evidently been very much exercised over this matter,
and I cannot but feel greatly relieved that affairs have terminated so
satisfactorily. But Mary? What is there in her manner that vaguely
disappoints me? I cannot say. I only know that I felt a powerful
shrinking overwhelm me when she turned her face to me and asked if I
were satisfied now. But I conquered my feelings and held out my hand.
She did not take it.

"July 26. How long the days are! The shadow of our late trial is
upon me yet; I cannot shake it off. I seem to see Mr. Clavering's
despairing face wherever I go. How is it that Mary preserves her
cheerfulness? If she does not love him, I should think the respect
which she must feel for his disappointment would keep her from levity
at least.

"Uncle has gone away again. Nothing I could say sufficed to keep
him.

"July 28. It has all come out. Mary has only nominally separated
from Mr. Clavering; she still cherishes the idea of one day uniting
herself to him in marriage. The fact was revealed to me in a strange
way not necessary to mention here; and has since been confirmed by Mary
herself. 'I admire the man,' she declares, 'and have no intention of
giving him up.' 'Then why not tell Uncle so?' I asked. Her only
answer was a bitter smile and a short,--'I leave that for you to do.'

"July 30. Midnight. Worn completely out, but before my blood cools
let me write. Mary is a wife. I have just returned from seeing her give
her hand to Henry Clavering. Strange that I can write it without
quivering when my whole soul is one flush of indignation and revolt.
But let me state the facts. Having left my room for a few minutes this
morning, I returned to find on my dressing-table a note from Mary in
which she informed me that she was going to take Mrs. Belden for a
drive and would not be back for some hours. Convinced, as I had every
reason to be, that she was on her way to meet Mr. Clavering, I only
stopped to put on my hat--"

There the Diary ceased.

"She was probably interrupted by Mary at this point," explained
Mr. Gryce. "But we have come upon the one thing we wanted to know. Mr.
Leavenworth threatened to supplant Mary with Eleanore if she persisted
in marrying contrary to his wishes. She did so marry, and to avoid the
consequences of her act she----"

"Say no more," I returned, convinced at last. "It is only too
clear."

Mr. Gryce rose.

"But the writer of these words is saved," I went on, trying to
grasp the one comfort left me. "No one who reads this Diary will ever
dare to insinuate she is capable of committing a crime."

"Assuredly not; the Diary settles that matter effectually."

I tried to be man enough to think of that and nothing else. To
rejoice in her deliverance, and let every other consideration go; but
in this I did not succeed. "But Mary, her cousin, almost her sister,
is lost," I muttered.

Mr. Gryce thrust his hands into his pockets and, for the first time,
showed some evidence of secret disturbance. "Yes, I am afraid she is;
I really am afraid she is." Then after a pause, during which I felt a
certain thrill of vague hope: "Such an entrancing creature too! It is
a pity, it positively is a pity! I declare, now that the thing is
worked up, I begin to feel almost sorry we have succeeded so well.
Strange, but true. If there was the least loophole out of it," he
muttered. But there isn't. The thing is clear as A, B, C." Suddenly he
rose, and began pacing the floor very thoughtfully, casting his glances
here, there, and everywhere, except at me, though I believe now, as
then, my face was all he saw.

"Would it be a very great grief to you, Mr. Raymond, if Miss Mary
Leavenworth should be arrested on this charge of murder?" he asked,
pausing before a sort of tank in which two or three
disconsolate-looking fishes were slowly swimming about.

"Yes," said I, "it would; a very great grief." "Yet it must be
done," said he, though with a strange lack of his usual decision. "As
an honest official, trusted to bring the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth
to the notice of the proper authorities, I have got to do it."

Again that strange thrill of hope at my heart induced by his
peculiar manner.

"Then my reputation as a detective! I ought surely to consider
that. I am not so rich or so famous that I can afford to forget all
that a success like this may bring me. No, lovely as she is, I have got
to push it through." But even as he said this, he became still more
thoughtful, gazing down into the murky depths of the wretched tank
before him with such an intent-ness I half expected the fascinated
fishes to rise from the water and return his gaze. What was in his mind?

After a little while he turned, his indecision utterly gone. "Mr.
Raymond, come here again at three. I shall then have my report ready
for the Superintendent. I should like to show it to you first, so don't
fail me."

There was something so repressed in his expression, I could not
prevent myself from venturing one question. "Is your mind made up?"
I asked.

"Yes," he returned, but in a peculiar tone, and with a peculiar
gesture.

"And you are going to make the arrest you speak of?"

"Come at three!"



XXXVI. GATHERED THREADS

    "This is the short and the long of it."
        --Merry Wives of Windsor.

PROMPTLY at the hour named, I made my appearance at Mr. Gryce's
door. I found him awaiting me on the threshold.

"I have met you," said he gravely, "for the purpose of requesting
you not to speak during the coming interview. I am to do the talking;
you the listening. Neither are you to be surprised at anything I may do
or say. I am in a facetious mood"--he did not look so--"and may take
it into my head to address you by another name than your own. If I do,
don't mind it. Above all, don't talk: remember that." And without
waiting to meet my look of doubtful astonishment, he led me softly
up-stairs.

The room in which I had been accustomed to meet him was at the top
of the first flight, but he took me past that into what appeared to be
the garret story, where, after many cautionary signs, he ushered me
into a room of singularly strange and unpromising appearance. In the
first place, it was darkly gloomy, being lighted simply by a very dim
and dirty skylight. Next, it was hideously empty; a pine table and two
hard-backed chairs, set face to face at each end of it, being the only
articles in the room. Lastly, it was surrounded by several closed doors
with blurred and ghostly ventilators over their tops which, being
round, looked like the blank eyes of a row of staring mummies.
Altogether it was a lugubrious spot, and in the present state of my
mind made me feel as if something unearthly and threatening lay
crouched in the very atmosphere. Nor, sitting there cold and desolate,
could I imagine that the sunshine glowed without, or that life, beauty,
and pleasure paraded the streets below.

Mr. Gryce's expression, as he took a seat and beckoned me to do the
same, may have had something to do with this strange sensation, it was
so mysteriously and sombrely expectant.

"You'll not mind the room," said he, in so muffled a tone I
scarcely heard him. "It's an awful lonesome spot, I know; but folks
with such matters before them mustn't be too particular as to the
places in which they hold their consultations, if they don't want all
the world to know as much as they do. Smith," and he gave me an
admonitory shake of his finger, while his voice took a more distinct
tone, "I have done the business; the reward is mine; the assassin of
Mr. Leavenworth is found, and in two hours will be in custody. Do you
want to know who it is?" leaning forward with every appearance of
eagerness in tone and expression.

I stared at him in great amazement. Had anything new come to light?
any great change taken place in his conclusions? All this preparation
could not be for the purpose of acquainting me with what I already
knew, yet--

He cut short my conjectures with a low, expressive chuckle. "It was
a long chase, I tell you," raising his voice still more; "a tight go;
a woman in the business too; but all the women in the world can't pull
the wool over the eyes of Ebenezer Gryce when he is on a trail; and the
assassin of Mr. Leavenworth and"--here his voice became actually
shrill in his excitement--"and of Hannah Chester is found.

"Hush!" he went on, though I had neither spoken nor made any
move; "you didn't know Hannah Chester was murdered. Well, she wasn't in
one sense of the word, but in another she was, and by the same hand
that killed the old gentleman. How do I know this? look here! This
scrap of paper was found on the floor of her room; it had a few
particles of white powder sticking to it; those particles were tested
last night and found to be poison. But you say the girl took it
herself, that she was a suicide. You are right, she did take it
herself, and it was a suicide; but who terrified her into this act of
self-destruction? Why, the one who had the most reason to fear her
testimony, of course. But the proof, you say. Well, sir, this girl left
a confession behind her, throwing the onus of the whole crime on a
certain party believed to be innocent; this confession was a forged
one, known from three facts; first, that the paper upon which it was
written was unobtainable by the girl in the place where she was;
secondly, that the words used therein were printed in coarse, awkward
characters, whereas Hannah, thanks to the teaching of the woman under
whose care she has been since the murder, had learned to write very
well; thirdly, that the story told in the confession does not agree
with the one related by the girl herself. Now the fact of a forged
confession throwing the guilt upon an innocent party having been found
in the keeping of this ignorant girl, killed by a dose of poison, taken
with the fact here stated, that on the morning of the day on which she
killed herself the girl received from some one manifestly acquainted
with the customs of the Leavenworth family a letter large enough and
thick enough to contain the confession folded, as it was when found,
makes it almost certain to my mind that the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth
sent this powder and this so-called confession to the girl, meaning her
to use them precisely as she did: for the purpose of throwing off
suspicion from the right track and of destroying herself at the same
time; for, as you know, dead men tell no tales."

He paused and looked at the dingy skylight above us. Why did the air
seem to grow heavier and heavier? Why did I shudder in vague
apprehension? I knew all this before; why did it strike me, then, as
something new?

"But who was this? you ask. Ah, that is the secret; that is the bit
of knowledge which is to bring me fame and fortune. But, secret or not,
I don't mind telling you"; lowering his voice and rapidly raising it
again. "The fact is, _I_ can't keep it to myself; it burns like a
new dollar in my pocket. Smith, my boy, the murderer of Mr.
Leavenworth--but stay, who does the world say it is? Whom do the
papers point at and shake their heads over? A woman! a young,
beautiful, bewitching woman! Ha, ha, ha! The papers are right; it is a
woman; young, beautiful, and bewitching too. But what one? Ah, that's
the question. There is more than one woman in this affair. Since
Hannah's death I have heard it openly advanced that she was the guilty
party in the crime: bah! Others cry it is the niece who was so
unequally dealt with by her uncle in his will: bah! again. But folks
are not without some justification for this latter assertion. Eleanore
Leavenworth did know more of this matter than appeared. Worse than
that, Eleanore Leavenworth stands in a position of positive peril
to-day. If you don't think so, let me show you what the detectives have
against her.

"First, there is the fact that a handkerchief, with her name on it,
was found stained with pistol grease upon the scene of murder; a place
which she explicitly denies having entered for twenty-four hours
previous to the discovery of the dead body.

"Secondly, the fact that she not only evinced terror when
confronted with this bit of circumstantial evidence, but manifested a
decided disposition, both at this time and others, to mislead inquiry,
shirking a direct answer to some questions and refusing all answer to
others.

"Thirdly, that an attempt was made by her to destroy a certain
letter evidently relating to this crime.

"Fourthly, that the key to the library door was seen in her
possession.

"All this, taken with the fact that the fragments of the letter
which this same lady attempted to destroy within an hour after the
inquest were afterwards put together, and were found to contain a
bitter denunciation of one of Mr. Leavenworth's nieces, by a gentleman
we will call _X_ in other words, an unknown quantity--makes out
a dark case against _you,_ especially as after investigations
revealed the fact that a secret underlay the history of the Leavenworth
family. That, unknown to the world at large, and Mr. Leavenworth in
particular, a marriage ceremony had been performed a year before in a
little town called F---- between a Miss Leavenworth and this same _X._
That, in other words, the unknown gentleman who, in the letter partly
destroyed by Miss Eleanore Leavenworth, complained to Mr. Leavenworth
of the treatment received by him from one of his nieces, was in fact
the secret husband of that niece. And that, moreover, this same gentle
man, under an assumed name, called on the night of the murder at the
house of Mr. Leavenworth and asked for Miss Eleanore's.

"Now you see, with all this against her, Eleanore Leavenworth is
lost if it cannot be proved, first that the articles testifying against
her, viz.: the handkerchief, letter, and key, passed after the murder
through other hands, before reaching hers; and secondly, that some one
else had even a stronger reason than she for desiring Mr. Leavenworth's
death at this time.

"Smith, my boy, both of these hypotheses have been established by
me. By dint of moling into old secrets, and following unpromising
clues, I have finally come to the conclusion that not Eleanore
Leavenworth, dark as are the appearances against her, but another
woman, beautiful as she, and fully as interesting, is the true
criminal. In short, that her cousin, the exquisite Mary, is the
murderer of Mr. Leavenworth, and by inference of Hannah Chester also."

He brought this out with such force, and with such a look of triumph
and appearance of having led up to it, that I was for the moment
dumbfounded, and started as if I had not known what he was going to
say. The stir I made seemed to awake an echo. Something like a
suppressed cry was in the air about me. All the room appeared to
breathe horror and dismay. Yet when, in the excitement of this fancy, I
half turned round to look, I found nothing but the blank eyes of those
dull ventilators staring upon me.

"You are taken aback!" Mr. Gryce went on. "I don't wonder. Every
one else is engaged in watching the movements of Eleanore Leavenworth;
I only know where to put my hand upon the real culprit. You shake your
head!" (Another fiction.) "You don't believe me! Think I am
deceived. Ha, ha! Ebenezer Gryce deceived after a month of hard work!
You are as bad as Miss Leavenworth herself, who has so little faith in
my sagacity that she offered me, of all men, an enormous reward if I
would find for her the assassin of her uncle! But that is neither here
nor there; you have your doubts, and you are waiting for me to solve
them. Well, nothing is easier. Know first that on the morning of the
inquest I made one or two discoveries not to be found in the records,
viz.: that the handkerchief picked up, as I have said, in Mr. leaven
worth's library, had notwithstanding its stains of pistol grease, a
decided perfume lingering about it. Going to the dressing-table of the
two ladies, I sought for that perfume, and found it in Mary's room, not
Eleanore's. This led me to examine the pockets of the dresses
respectively worn by them the evening before. In that of Eleanore I
found a handkerchief, presumably the one she had carried at that time.
But in Mary's there was none, nor did I see any lying about her room as
if tossed down on her retiring. The conclusion I drew from this was,
that she, and not Eleanore, had carried the handkerchief into her
uncle's room, a conclusion emphasized by the fact privately
communicated to me by one of the servants, that Mary was in Eleanore's
room when the basket of clean clothes was brought up with this
handkerchief lying on top.

"But knowing the liability we are to mistake in such matters as
these, I made another search in the library, and came across a very
curious thing. Lying on the table was a penknife, and scattered on the
floor beneath, in close proximity to the chair, were two or three
minute portions of wood freshly chipped off from the leg of the table;
all of which looked as if some one of a nervous disposition had been
sitting there, whose hand in a moment of self-forgetfulness had caught
up the knife and unconsciously whittled the table, A little thing, you
say; but when the question is, which of two ladies, one of a calm and
self-possessed nature, the other restless in her ways and excitable in
her disposition, was in a certain spot at a certain time, it is these
little things that become almost deadly in their significance. No one
who has been with these two women an hour can hesitate as to whose
delicate hand made that cut in Mr. Leavenworth's library table.

"But we are not done. I distinctly overheard Eleanore accuse her
cousin of this deed. Now such a woman as Eleanore Leavenworth has
proved herself to be never would accuse a relative of crime without the
strongest and most substantial reasons. First, she must have been sure
her cousin stood in a position of such emergency that nothing but the
death of her uncle could release her from it; secondly, that her
cousin's character was of such a nature she would not hesitate to
relieve herself from a desperate emergency by the most desperate of
means; and lastly, been in possession of some circumstantial evidence
against her cousin, seriously corroborative of her suspicions. Smith,
all this was true of Eleanore Leavenworth. As to the character of her
cousin, she has had ample proof of her ambition, love of money, caprice
and deceit, it having been Mary Leavenworth, and not Eleanore, as was
first supposed, who had contracted the secret marriage already spoken
of. Of the critical position in which she stood, let the threat once
made by Mr. Leavenworth to substitute her cousin's name for hers in
his will in case she had married this _x_ be remembered, as well
as the tenacity with which Mary clung to her hopes of future fortune;
while for the corroborative testimony of her guilt which Eleanore is
supposed to have had, remember that previous to the key having been
found in Eleanore's possession, she had spent some time in her cousin's
room; and that it was at Mary's fireplace the half-burned fragments of
that letter were found,--and you have the outline of a report which in
an hour's time from this will lead to the arrest of Mary Leavenworth
as the assassin of her uncle and benefactor."

A silence ensued which, like the darkness of Egypt, could be felt;
then a great and terrible cry rang through the room, and a man's form,
rushing from I knew not where, shot by me and fell at Mr. Gryce's feet
shrieking out:

"It is a lie! a lie! Mary Leavenworth is innocent as a babe
unborn. I am the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth. I! I! I!"

It was Trueman Harwell.



XXXVII. CULMINATION

    "Saint seducing gold."
        --Romeo and Juliet.

    "When our actions do not, Our fears do make us traitors."
        --Macbeth.

I NEVER saw such a look of mortal triumph on the face of a man as
that which crossed the countenance of the detective.

"Well," said he, "this is unexpected, but not wholly unwelcome. I
am truly glad to learn that Miss Leavenworth is innocent; but I must
hear some few more particulars before I shall be satisfied. Get up, Mr.
Harwell, and explain yourself. If you are the murderer of Mr.
Leavenworth, how comes it that things look so black against everybody
but yourself?"

But in the hot, feverish eyes which sought him from the writhing
form at his feet, there was mad anxiety and pain, but little
explanation. Seeing him making unavailing efforts to speak, I drew near.

"Lean on me," said I, lifting him to his feet.

His face, relieved forever from its mask of repression, turned
towards me with the look of a despairing spirit. "Save! save!" he
gasped. "Save her--Mary--they are sending a report--stop it!"

"Yes," broke in another voice. "If there is a man here who
believes in God and prizes woman's honor, let him stop the issue of
that report." And Henry Clavering, dignified as ever, but in a state of
extreme agitation, stepped into our midst through an open door at our
right.

But at the sight of his face, the man in our arms quivered,
shrieked, and gave one bound that would have overturned Mr. Clavering,
herculean of frame as he was, had not Mr. Gryce interposed.

"Wait!" he cried; and holding back the secretary with one hand--
where was his rheumatism now!--he put the other in his pocket and drew
thence a document which he held up before Mr. Clavering. "It has not
gone yet," said he; "be easy. And you," he went on, turning towards
Trueman Harwell, "be quiet, or----"

His sentence was cut short by the man springing from his grasp.
"Let me go!" he shrieked. "Let me have my revenge on him who, in face
of all I have done for Mary Leavenworth, dares to call her his wife!
Let me--" But at this point he paused, his quivering frame stiffening
into stone, and his clutching hands, outstretched for his rival's
throat, falling heavily back. "Hark!" said he, glaring over Mr.
Clavering's shoulder: "it is she! I hear her! I feel her! She is
on the stairs! she is at the door! she--" a low, shuddering sigh of
longing and despair finished the sentence: the door opened, and Mary
Leavenworth stood before us!

It was a moment to make young hairs turn gray. To see her face, so
pale, so haggard, so wild in its fixed horror, turned towards Henry
Clavering, to the utter ignoring of the real actor in this most
horrible scene! Trueman Harwell could not stand it.

"Ah, ah!" he cried; "look at her! cold, cold; not one glance for
me, though I have just drawn the halter from her neck and fastened it
about my own!"

And, breaking from the clasp of the man who in his jealous rage
would now have withheld him, he fell on his knees before Mary,
clutching her dress with frenzied hands. "You _shall_ look at
me," he cried; "you _shall_ listen to me! I will not lose body
and soul for nothing. Mary, they said you were in peril! I could not
endure that thought, so I uttered the truth,--yes, though I knew what
the consequence would be,--and all I want now is for you to say you
believe me, when I swear that I only meant to secure to you the fortune
you so much desired; that I never dreamed it would come to this; that
it was because I loved you, and hoped to win your love in return that
I----"

But she did not seem to see him, did not seem to hear him. Her eyes
were fixed upon Henry Clavering with an awful inquiry in their depths,
and none but he could move her.

"You do not hear me!" shrieked the poor wretch. "Ice that you
are, you would not turn your head if I should call to you from the
depths of hell!"

But even this cry fell unheeded. Pushing her hands down upon his
shoulders as though she would sweep some impediment from her path, she
endeavored to advance. "Why is that man here?" she cried, indicating
her husband with one quivering hand. "What has he done that he should
be brought here to confront me at this awful time?"

'"I told her to come here to meet her uncle's murderer," whispered
Mr. Gryce into my ear.

But before I could reply to her, before Mr. Clavering himself could
murmur a word, the guilty wretch before her had started to his feet.

"Don't you know? then I will tell you. It is because these
gentlemen, chivalrous and honorable as they consider themselves, think
that you, the beauty and the Sybarite, committed with your own white
hand the deed of blood which has brought you freedom and fortune. Yes,
yes, this man "--turning and pointing at me--" friend as he has made
himself out to be, kindly and honorable as you have doubtless believed
him, but who in every look he has bestowed upon you, every word he has
uttered in your hearing during all these four horrible weeks, has been
weaving a cord for your neck--thinks you the assassin of your uncle,
unknowing that a man stood at your side ready to sweep half the world
from your path if that same white hand rose in bidding. That I----"

"You?" Ah! now she could see him: now she could hear him!

"Yes," clutching her robe again as she hastily recoiled; "didn't
you know it? When in that dreadful hour of your rejection by your
uncle, you cried aloud for some one to help you, didn't you know----"

"Don't!" she shrieked, bursting from him with a look of unspeakable
horror. "Don't say that! Oh!" she gasped, "is the mad cry of a stricken
woman for aid and sympathy the call for a murderer?" And turning away in
horror, she moaned: "Who that ever looks at me now will forget that a
man--such a man!--dared to think that, because I was in mortal
perplexity, I would accept the murder of my best friend as a relief from
it!" Her horror was unbounded. "Oh, what a chastisement for folly!" she
murmured. "What a punishment for the love of money which has always been
my curse!"

Henry Clavering could no longer restrain himself, leaping to her
side, he bent over her. "Was it nothing but folly, Mary? Are you
guiltless of any deeper wrong? Is there no link of complicity between
you two? Have you nothing on your soul but an inordinate desire to
preserve your place in your uncle's will, even at the risk of breaking
my heart and wronging your noble cousin? Are you innocent in this
matter? Tell me!" placing his hand on her head, he pressed it slowly
back and gazed into her eyes; then, without a word, took her to his
breast and looked calmly around him.

"She is innocent!" said he.

It was the uplifting of a stifling pall. No one in the room, unless
it was the wretched criminal shivering before us, but felt a sudden
influx of hope. Even Mary's own countenance caught a glow. "Oh!" she
whispered, withdrawing from his arms to look better into his face,
"and is this the man I have trifled with, injured, and tortured, till
the very name of Mary Leavenworth might well make him shudder? Is this
he whom I married in a fit of caprice, only to forsake and deny?
Henry, do you declare me innocent in face of all you have seen and
heard; in face of that moaning, chattering wretch before us, and my
own quaking flesh and evident terror; with the remembrance on your
heart and in your mind of the letter I wrote yon the morning after the
murder, in which I prayed you to keep away from me, as I was in such
deadly danger the least hint given to the world that I had a secret to
conceal would destroy me? Do you, can you, will you, declare me
innocent before God and the world?"

"I do," said he.

A light such as had never visited her face before passed slowly over
it. "Then God forgive me the wrong I have done this noble heart, for I
can never forgive myself! Wait!" said she, as he opened his lips.
"Before I accept any further tokens of your generous confidence, let me
show you what I am. You shall know the worst of the woman you have
taken to your heart. Mr. Raymond," she cried, turning towards me for
the first time, "in those days when, with such an earnest desire for
my welfare (you see I do not believe this man's insinuations), you
sought to induce me to speak out and tell all I knew concerning this
dreadful deed, I did not do it because of my selfish fears. I knew the
case looked dark against me. Eleanore had told me so. Eleanore
herself--and it was the keenest pang I had to endure--believed me
guilty. She had her reasons. She knew first, from the directed envelope
she had found lying underneath my uncle's dead body on the library
table, that he had been engaged at the moment of death in summoning his
lawyer to make that change in his will which would transfer my claims
to her; secondly, that notwithstanding my denial of the same, I had
been down to his room the night before, for she had heard my door open
and my dress rustle as I passed out. But that was not all; the key that
every one felt to be a positive proof of guilt wherever found, had been
picked up by her from the floor of my room; the letter written by Mr.
Clavering to my uncle was found in my fire; and the handkerchief which
she had seen me take from the basket of clean clothes, was produced at
the inquest stained with pistol grease. I could not account for these
things. A web seemed tangled about my feet. I could not stir without
encountering some new toil. I knew I was innocent; but if I failed to
satisfy my cousin of this, how could I hope to convince the general
public, if once called upon to do so. Worse still, if Eleanore, with
every apparent motive for desiring long life to our uncle, was held in
such suspicion because of a few circumstantial evidences against her,
what would I not have to fear if these evidences were turned against
me, the heiress! The tone and manner of the juryman at the inquest
that asked who would be most benefited by my uncle's will showed but
too plainly. When, therefore, Eleanore, true to her heart's generous
instincts, closed her lips and refused to speak when speech would have
been my ruin, I let her do it, justifying myself with the thought that
she had deemed me capable of crime, and so must bear the consequences.
Nor, when I saw how dreadful these were likely to prove, did I relent.
Fear of the ignominy, suspense, and danger which confession would
entail sealed my lips. Only once did I hesitate. That was when, in the
last conversation we had, I saw that, notwithstanding appearances, you
believed in Eleanore's innocence, and the thought crossed me you might
be induced to believe in mine if I threw myself upon your mercy. But
just then Mr. Clavering came; and as in a flash I seemed to realize
what my future life would be, stained by suspicion, and, instead of
yielding to my impulse, went so far in the other direction as to
threaten Mr. Clavering with a denial of our marriage if he approached
me again till all danger was over.

"Yes, he will tell you that was my welcome to him when, with heart
and brain racked by long suspense, he came to my door for one word of
assurance that the peril I was in was not of my own making. That was
the greeting I gave him after a year of silence every moment of which
was torture to him. But he forgives me; I see it in his eyes; I hear
it in his accents; and you--oh, if in the long years to come you can
forget what I have made Eleanore suffer by my selfish fears; if with
the shadow of her wrong before you, you can by the grace of some sweet
hope think a little less hardly of me, do. As for this man--torture
could not be worse to me than this standing with him in the same
room--let him come forward and declare if I by look or word have given
him reason to believe I understood his passion, much less returned it."

"Why ask!" he gasped. "Don't you see it was your indifference
which drove me mad? To stand before you, to agonize after you, to
follow you with thoughts in every move you made; to know my soul was
welded to yours with bands of steel no fire could melt, no force
destroy, no strain dissever; to sleep under the same roof, sit at the
same table, and yet meet not so much as one look to show me you
understood! It was that which made my life a hell. I was determined
you should understand. If I had to leap into a pit of flame, you should
know what I was, and what my passion for you was. And you do. You
comprehend it all now. Shrink as you will from my presence, cower as
you may to the weak man you call husband, you can never forget the love
of Trueman Harwell; never forget that love, love, love, was the force
which led me down into your uncle's room that night, and lent me will
to pull the trigger which poured all the wealth you hold this day into
your lap. Yes," he went on, towering in his preternatural despair till
even the noble form of Henry Clavering looked dwarfed beside him,
"every dollar that chinks from your purse shall talk of me. Every
gew-gaw which flashes on that haughty head, too haughty to bend to me,
shall shriek my name into your ears. Fashion, pomp, luxury,--you will
have them all; but till gold loses its glitter and ease its attraction
you will never forget the hand that gave them to you!"

With a look whose evil triumph I cannot describe, he put his hand
into the arm of the waiting detective, and in another moment would have
been led from the room; when Mary, crushing down the swell of emotions
that was seething in her breast, lifted her head and said:

"No, Trueman Harwell; I cannot give you even that thought for your
comfort. Wealth so laden would bring nothing but torture. I cannot
accept the torture, so must release the wealth. From this day, Mary
Clavering owns nothing but what comes to her from the husband she has
so long and so basely wronged." And raising her hands to her ears, she
tore out the diamonds which hung there, and flung them at the feet of
the unfortunate man.

It was the final wrench of the rack. With a yell such as I never
thought to listen to from the lips of a man, he flung up his arms,
while all the lurid light of madness glared on his face. "And I have
given my soul to hell for a shadow!" he moaned, "for a shadow!"

"Well, that is the best day's work I ever did! Your
congratulations, Mr. Raymond, upon the success of the most daring game
ever played in a detective's office."

I looked at the triumphant countenance of Mr. Gryce in amazement.
"What do you mean?" I cried; "did you plan all this?"

"Did I plan it?" he repeated. "Could I stand here, seeing how things
have turned out, if I had not? Mr. Raymond, let us be comfortable. You
are a gentleman, but we can well shake hands over this. I have never
known such a satisfactory conclusion to a bad piece of business in all
my professional career."

We did shake hands, long and fervently, and then I asked him to
explain himself.

"Well," said he, "there has always been one thing that plagued me,
even in the very moment of my strongest suspicion against this woman,
and that was, the pistol-cleaning business. I could not reconcile it
with what I knew of womankind. I could not make it seem the act of a
woman. Did you ever know a woman who cleaned a pistol? No. They can
fire them, and do; but after firing them, they do not clean them. Now
it is a principle which every detective recognizes, that if of a
hundred leading circumstances connected with a crime, ninety-nine of
these are acts pointing to the suspected party with unerring certainty,
but the hundredth equally important act one which that person could not
have performed, the whole fabric of suspicion is destroyed. Recognizing
this principle, then, as I have said, I hesitated when it came to the
point of arrest. The chain was complete; the links were fastened; but
one link was of a different size and material from the rest; and in
this argued a break in the chain. I resolved to give her a final
chance. Summoning Mr. Clavering, and Mr. Harwell, two persons whom I
had no reason to suspect, but who were the only persons beside herself
who could have committed this crime, being the only persons of
intellect who were in the house or believed to be, at the time of the
murder, I notified them separately that the assassin of Mr. Leavenworth
was not only found, but was about to be arrested in my house, and that
if they wished to hear the confession which would be sure to follow,
they might have the opportunity of doing so by coming here at such an
hour. They were both too much interested, though for very different
reasons, to refuse; and I succeeded in inducing them to conceal
themselves in the two rooms from which you saw them issue, knowing that
if either of them had committed this deed, he had done it for the love
of Mary Leavenworth, and consequently could not hear her charged with
crime, and threatened with arrest, without betraying himself. I did not
hope much from the experiment; least of all did I anticipate that Mr.
Harwell would prove to be the guilty man--but live and learn, Mr.
Raymond, live and learn."



XXXVIII. A FULL CONFESSION

    "Between the acting of a dreadful thing,
    And the first motion, all the interim is
    Like a phantasma or a hideous dream;
    The genius and the mortal instruments
    Are then in council; and the state of a man,
    Like to a little Kingdom, suffers then
    The nature of an insurrection."
        --Julius Caesar.

I AM not a bad man; I am only an intense one. Ambition, love,
jealousy, hatred, revenge--transitory emotions with some, are
terrific passions with me. To be sure, they are quiet and concealed
ones, coiled serpents that make no stir till aroused; but then, deadly
in their spring and relentless in their action. Those who have known me
best have not known this. My own mother was ignorant of it. Often and
often have I heard her say: "If Trueman only had more sensibility!
If Trueman were not so indifferent to everything! In short, if Trueman
had more power in him!"

It was the same at school. No one understood me. They thought me
meek; called me Dough-face. For three years they called me this, then
I turned upon them. Choosing out their ringleader, I felled him to the
ground, laid him on his back, and stamped upon him. He was handsome
before my foot came down; afterwards--Well, it is enough he never
called me Dough-face again. In the store I entered soon after, I met
with even less appreciation. Regular at my work and exact in my
performance of it, they thought me a good machine and nothing more.
What heart, soul, and feeling could a man have who never sported, never
smoked, and never laughed? I could reckon up figures correctly, but
one scarcely needed heart or soul for that. I could even write day by
day and month by month without showing a flaw in my copy; but that
only argued I was no more than they intimated, a regular automaton. I
let them think so, with the certainty before me that they would one day
change their minds as others had done. The fact was, I loved nobody
well enough, not even myself, to care for any man's opinion. Life was
well-nigh a blank to me; a dead level plain that had to be traversed
whether I would or not. And such it might have continued to this day if
I had never met Mary Leavenworth. But when, some nine months since, I
left my desk in the counting-house for a seat in Mr. Leavenworth's
library, a blazing torch fell into my soul whose flame has never gone
out, and never will, till the doom before me is accomplished.

She was so beautiful! When, on that first evening, I followed my new
employer into the parlor, and saw this woman standing up before me in
her half-alluring, half-appalling charm, I knew, as by a lightning
flash, what my future would be if I remained in that house. She was in
one of her haughty moods, and bestowed upon me little more than a
passing glance. But her indifference made slight impression upon me
then. It was enough that I was allowed to stand in her presence and
look unrebuked upon her loveliness. To be sure, it was like gazing into
the flower-wreathed crater of an awakening volcano. Fear and
fascination were in each moment I lingered there; but fear and
fascination made the moment what it was, and I could not have withdrawn
if I would.

And so it was always. Unspeakable pain as well as pleasure was in
the emotion with which I regarded her. Yet for all that I did not
cease to study her hour by hour and day by day; her smiles, her
movement, her way of turning her head or lifting her eyelids. I had a
purpose in this. I wished to knit her beauty so firmly into the warp
and woof of my being that nothing could ever serve to tear it away. For
I saw then as plainly as now that, coquette though she was, she would
never stoop to me. No; I might lie down at her feet and let her
trample over me; she would not even turn to see what it was she had
stepped upon. I might spend days, months, years, learning the alphabet
of her wishes; she would not thank me for my pains or even raise the
lashes from her cheek to look at me as I passed. I was nothing to her,
could not be anything unless--and this thought came slowly--I could
in some way become her master.

Meantime I wrote at Mr. Leavenworth's dictation and pleased him. My
methodical ways were just to his taste. As for the other member of the
family, Miss Eleanore Leavenworth--she treated me just as one of her
proud but sympathetic nature might be expected to do. Not familiarly,
but kindly; not as a friend, but as a member of the household whom she
met every day at table, and who, as she or any one else could see, was
none too happy or hopeful.

Six months went by. I had learned two things; first, that Mary
Leavenworth loved her position as prospective heiress to a large
fortune above every other earthly consideration; and secondly, that
she was in the possession of a secret which endangered that position.
What this was, I had for some time no means of knowing. But when later
I became convinced it was one of love, I grew hopeful, strange as it
may seem. For by this time I had learned Mr. Leavenworth's disposition
almost as perfectly as that of his niece, and knew that in a matter of
this kind he would be uncompromising; and that in the clashing of
these two wills something might occur which would give me a hold upon
her. The only thing that troubled me was the fact that I did not know
the name of the man in whom she was interested. But chance soon favored
me here. One day--a month ago now--I sat down to open Mr.
Leavenworth's mail as usual. One letter--shall I ever forget it? ran
thus:

"HOFFMAN HOUSE,

"March I, 1876."

MR. HORATIO LEAVENWORTH:

"DEAR SIR,--You have a niece whom yon love and trust, one, too, who
seems worthy of all the love and trust that you or any other man can
give her; so beautiful, so charming, so tender is she in face, form,
manner, and conversation. But, dear sir, every rose has its thorn, and
your rose is no exception to this rule. Lovely as she is, charming as
she is, tender as she is, she is not only capable of trampling on the
rights of one who trusted her, but of bruising the heart and breaking
the spirit of him to whom she owes all duty, honor, and observance.

"If you don't believe this, ask her to her cruel, bewitching face,
who and what is her humble servant, and yours.

"Henry Ritchie Clavering."

If a bombshell had exploded at my feet, or the evil one himself
appeared at my call, I would not have been more astounded. Not only was
the name signed to these remarkable words unknown to me, but the
epistle itself was that of one who felt himself to be her master: a
position which, as you know, I was myself aspiring to occupy. For a few
minutes, then, I stood a prey to feelings of the bitterest wrath and
despair; then I grew calm, realizing that with this letter in my
possession I was virtually the arbitrator of her destiny. Some men
would have sought her there and then and, by threatening to place it in
her uncle's hand, won from her a look of entreaty, if no more; but I
--well, my plans went deeper than that. I knew she would have to be in
extremity before I could hope to win her. She must feel herself
slipping over the edge of the precipice before she would clutch at the
first thing offering succor. I decided to allow the letter to pass into
my employer's hands. But it had been opened! How could I manage to give
it to him in this condition without exciting his suspicion? I knew of
but one way; to let him see me open it for what he would consider the
first time. So, waiting till he came into the room, I approached him
with the letter, tearing off the end of the envelope as I came. Opening
it, I gave a cursory glance at its contents and tossed it down on the
table before him.

"That appears to be of a private character," said I, "though there
is no sign to that effect on the envelope."

He took it up while I stood there. At the first word he started,
looked at me, seemed satisfied from my expression that I had not read
far enough to realize its nature, and, whirling slowly around in his
chair, devoured the remainder in silence. I waited a moment, then
withdrew to my own desk. One minute, two minutes passed in silence; he
was evidently rereading the letter; then he hurriedly rose and left
the room. As he passed me I caught a glimpse of his face in the mirror.
The expression I saw there did not tend to lessen the hope that was
rising in my breast.

By following him almost immediately up-stairs I ascertained that he
went directly to Mary's room, and when in a few hours later the family
collected around the dinner table, I perceived, almost without looking
up, that a. great and insurmountable barrier had been raised between
him and his favorite niece.

Two days passed; days that were for me one long and unrelieved
suspense. Had Mr. Leavenworth answered that letter? Would it all end
as it had begun, without the appearance of the mysterious Clavering on
the scene? I could not tell.

Meanwhile my monotonous work went on, grinding my heart beneath its
relentless wheel. I wrote and wrote and wrote, till it seemed as if my
life blood went from me with every drop of ink I used. Always alert and
listening, I dared not lift my head or turn my eyes at any unusual
sound, lest I should seem to be watching. The third night I had a dream;
I have already told Mr. Raymond what it was, and hence will not
repeat it here. One correction, however, I wish to make in regard to
it. In my statement to him I declared that the face of the man whom I
saw lift his hand against my employer was that of Mr. Clavering. I lied
when I said this. The face seen by me in my dream was my own. It was
that fact which made it so horrible to me. In the crouching figure
stealing warily down-stairs, I saw as in a glass the vision of my own
form. Otherwise my account of the matter was true.

This vision had a tremendous effect upon me. Was it a premonition?
a forewarning of the way in which I was to win this coveted creature
for my own? Was the death of her uncle the bridge by which the
impassable gulf between us might be spanned? I began to think it might
be; to consider the possibilities which could make this the only path
to my elysium; even went so far as to picture her lovely face bending
gratefully towards me through the glare of a sudden release from some
emergency in which she stood. One thing was sure; if that was the way
I must go, I had at least been taught how to tread it; and all through
the dizzy, blurred day that followed, I saw, as I sat at my work,
repeated visions of that stealthy, purposeful figure stealing down the
stairs and entering with uplifted pistol into the unconscious presence
of my employer. I even found myself a dozen times that day turning my
eyes upon the door through which it was to come, wondering how long it
would be before my actual form would pause there. That the moment was
at hand I did not imagine. Even when I left him that night after
drinking with him the glass of sherry mentioned at the inquest, I had
no idea the hour of action was so near. But when, not three minutes
after going upstairs, I caught the sound of a lady's dress rustling
through the hall, and listening, heard Mary Leavenworth pass my door
on her way to the library, I realized that the fatal hour was come;
that something was going to be said or done in that room which would
make this deed necessary. What? I determined to ascertain. Casting
about in my mind for the means of doing so, I remembered that the
ventilator running up through the house opened first into the
passage-way connecting Mr. Leavenworth's bedroom and library, and,
secondly, into the closet of the large spare room adjoining mine.
Hastily unlocking the door of the communication between the rooms, I
took my position in the closet. Instantly the sound of voices reached
my ears; all was open below, and standing there, I was as much an
auditor of what went on between Mary and her uncle as if I were in the
library itself. And what did I hear? Enough to assure me my suspicions
were correct; that it was a moment of vital interest to her; that Mr.
Leavenworth, in pursuance of a threat evidently made some time since,
was in the act of taking steps to change his will, and that she had
come to make an appeal to be forgiven her fault and restored to his
favor. What that fault was, I did not learn. No mention was made of Mr.
Clavering as her husband. I only heard her declare that her action had
been the result of impulse, rather than love; that she regretted it,
and desired nothing more than to be free from all obligations to one
she would fain forget, and be again to her uncle what she was before
she ever saw this man. I thought, fool that I was, it was a mere
engagement she was alluding to, and took the insanest hope from these
words; and when, in a moment later I heard her uncle reply, in his
sternest tone, that she had irreparably forfeited her claims to his
regard and favor, I did not need her short and bitter cry of shame and
disappointment, or that low moan for some one to help her, for me to
sound his death-knell in my heart. Creeping back to my own room, I
waited till I heard her reascend, then I stole forth. Calm as I had
ever been in my life, I went down the stairs just as I had seen myself
do in my dream, and knocking lightly at the library door, went in. Mr.
Leavenworth was sitting in his usual place writing.

"Excuse me," said I as he looked up, "I have lost my
memorandum-book, and think it possible I may have dropped it in the
passage-way when I went for the wine." He bowed, and I hurried past him
into the closet. Once there, I proceeded rapidly into the room beyond,
procured the pistol, returned, and almost before I realized what I was
doing, had taken up my position behind him, aimed, and fired. The
result was what you know. Without a groan his head fell forward on his
hands, and Mary Leavenworth was the virtual possessor of the thousands
she coveted.

My first thought was to procure the letter he was writing.
Approaching the table, I tore it out from under his hands, looked at
it, saw that it was, as I expected, a summons to his lawyer, and thrust
it into my pocket, together with the letter from Mr. Clavering, which I
perceived lying spattered with blood on the table before me. Not till
this was done did I think of myself, or remember the echo which that
low, sharp report must have made in the house. Dropping the pistol at
the side of the murdered man, I stood ready to shriek to any one who
entered that Mr. Leavenworth had killed himself. But I was saved from
committing such a folly. The report had not been heard, or if so, had
evidently failed to create an alarm. No one came, and I was left to
contemplate my work undisturbed and decide upon the best course to be
taken to avoid detection. A moment's study of the wound made in his
head by the bullet convinced me of the impossibility of passing the
affair off as a suicide, or even the work of a burglar. To any one
versed in such matters it was manifestly a murder, and a most
deliberate one. My one hope, then, lay in making it as mysterious as it
was deliberate, by destroying all due to the motive and manner of the
deed. Picking up the pistol, I carried it into the other room with the
intention of cleaning it, but finding nothing there to do it with, came
back for the handkerchief I had seen lying on the floor at Mr.
Leavenworth's feet. It was Miss Eleanore's, but I did not know it till
I had used it to clean the barrel; then the sight of her initials in
one corner so shocked me I forgot to clean the cylinder, and only
thought of how I could do away with this evidence of her handkerchief
having been employed for a purpose so suspicious. Not daring to carry
it from the room, I sought for means to destroy it; but finding none,
compromised the matter by thrusting it deep down behind the cushion of
one of the chairs, in the hope of being able to recover and burn it the
next day. This done, I reloaded the pistol, locked it up, and prepared
to leave the room. But here the horror which usually follows such deeds
struck me like a thunderbolt and made me for the first time uncertain
in my action. I locked the door on going out, something I should never
have done. Not till I reached the top of the stairs did I realize my
folly; and then it was too late, for there before me, candle in hand,
and surprise written on every feature of her face, stood Hannah, one of
the servants, looking at me.

"Lor, sir, where have you been?" she cried, but strange to say,
in a low tone. "You look as if you had seen a ghost." And her eyes
turned suspiciously to the key which I held in my hand.

I felt as if some one had clutched me round the throat. Thrusting
the key into my pocket, I took a step towards her. "I will tell you
what I have seen if you will come down-stairs," I whispered; "the
ladies will be disturbed if we talk here," and smoothing my brow as
best I could, I put out my hand and drew her towards me. What my motive
was I hardly knew; the action was probably instinctive; but when I
saw the look which came into her face as I touched her, and the
alacrity with which she prepared to follow me, I took courage,
remembering the one or two previous tokens I had had of this girl's
unreasonable susceptibility to my influence; a susceptibility which I
now felt could be utilized and made to serve my purpose.

Taking her down to the parlor floor, I drew her into the depths of
the great drawing-room, and there told her in the least alarming way
possible what had happened to Mr. Leavenworth. She was of course
intensely agitated, but she did not scream;--the novelty of her
position evidently bewildering her--and, greatly relieved, I went on
to say that I did not know who committed the deed, but that folks would
declare it was I if they knew I had been seen by her on the stairs with
the library key in my hand. "But I won't tell," she whispered,
trembling violently in her fright and eagerness. "I will keep it to
myself. I will say I didn't see anybody." But I soon convinced her that
she could never keep her secret if the police once began to question
her, and, following up my argument with a little cajolery, succeeded
after a long while in winning her consent to leave the house till the
storm should be blown over. But that given, it was some little time
before I could make her comprehend that she must depart at once and
without going back after her things. Not till I brightened up her wits
by a promise to marry her some day if she only obeyed me now, did she
begin to look the thing in the face and show any evidence of the real
mother wit she evidently possessed. "Mrs. Belden would take me in,"
said she, "if I could only get to R----. She takes everybody in who
asks, her; and she would keep me, too, if I told her Miss Mary sent
me. But I can't get there to-night."

I immediately set to work to convince her that she could. The
midnight train did not leave the city for a half-hour yet, and the
distance to the depot could be easily walked by her in fifteen minutes.
But she had no money! I easily supplied that. And she was afraid she
couldn't find her way! I entered into minutest directions. She still
hesitated, but at length consented to go, and with some further
understanding of the method I was to employ in communicating with her,
we went down-stairs. There we found a hat and shawl of the cook's which
I put on her, and in another moment we were in the carriage yard.
"Remember, you are to say nothing of what has occurred, no matter what
happens," I whispered in parting injunction as she turned to leave me.
"Remember, you are to come and marry me some day," she murmured in
reply, throwing her arms about my neck. The movement was sudden, and it
was probably at this time she dropped the candle she had unconsciously
held clenched in her hand till now. I promised her, and she glided out
of the gate.

Of the dreadful agitation that followed the disappearance of this
girl I can give no better idea than by saying I not only committed the
additional error of locking up the house on my re-entrance, but omitted
to dispose of the key then in my pocket by flinging it into the street
or dropping it in the hall as I went up. The fact is, I was so absorbed
by the thought of the danger I stood in from this girl, I forgot
everything else. Hannah's pale face, Hannah's look of terror, as she
turned from my side and flitted down the street, were continually
before me. I could not escape them; the form of the dead man lying
below was less vivid. It was as though I were tied in fancy to this
woman of the white face fluttering down the midnight streets. That she
would fail in something--come back or be brought back--that I should
find her standing white and horror-stricken on the front steps when I
went down in the morning, was like a nightmare to me. I began to think
no other result possible; that she never would or could win her way
unchallenged to that little cottage in a distant village; that I had
but sent a trailing flag of danger out into the world with this
wretched girl;--danger that would come back to me with the first burst
of morning light!

But even those thoughts faded after a while before the realization
of the peril I was in as long as the key and papers remained in my
possession. How to get rid of them! I dared not leave my room again,
or open my window. Some one might see me and remember it. Indeed I was
afraid to move about in my room. Mr. Leavenworth might hear me. Yes, my
morbid terror had reached that point--I was fearful of one whose ears I
myself had forever closed, imagined him in his bed beneath and wakeful
to the least sound.

But the necessity of doing something with these evidences of guilt
finally overcame this morbid anxiety, and drawing the two letters from
my pocket--I had not yet undressed--I chose out the most dangerous of
the two, that written by Mr. Leavenworth himself, and, chewing it till
it was mere pulp, threw it into a corner; but the other had blood on
it, and nothing, not even the hope of safety, could induce me to put it
to my lips. I was forced to lie with it clenched in my hand, and the
flitting image of Hannah before my eyes, till the slow morning broke. I
have heard it said that a year in heaven seems like a day; I can
easily believe it. I know that an hour in hell seems an eternity!

But with daylight came hope. Whether it was that the sunshine
glancing on the wall made me think of Mary and all I was ready to do
for her sake, or whether it was the mere return of my natural stoicism
in the presence of actual necessity, I cannot say. I only know that I
arose calm and master of myself. The problem of the letter and key had
solved itself also. Hide them? I would not try to! Instead of that I
would put them in plain sight, trusting to that very fact for their
being overlooked. Making the letter up into lighters, I carried them
into the spare room and placed them in a vase. Then, taking the key in
my hand, went down-stairs, intending to insert it in the lock of the
library door as I went by. But Miss Eleanore descending almost
immediately behind me made this impossible. I succeeded, however, in
thrusting it, without her knowledge, among the filagree work of the
gas-fixture in the second hall, and thus relieved, went down into the
breakfast room as self-possessed a man as ever crossed its threshold.
Mary was there, looking exceedingly pale and disheartened, and as I met
her eye, which for a wonder turned upon me as I entered, I could almost
have laughed, thinking of the deliverance that had come to her, and of
the time when I should proclaim myself to be the man who had
accomplished it.

Of the alarm that speedily followed, and my action at that time and
afterwards, I need not speak in detail. I behaved just as I would have
done if I had had no hand in the murder. I even forbore to touch the
key or go to the spare room, or make any movement which I was not
willing all the world should see. For as things stood, there was not a
shadow of evidence against me in the house; neither was I, a
hard-working, uncomplaining secretary, whose passion for one of his
employer's nieces was not even mistrusted by the lady herself, a person
to be suspected of the crime which threw him out of a fair situation.
So I performed all the duties of my position, summoning the police, and
going for Mr. Veeley, just as I would have done if those hours between
me leaving Mr. Leavenworth for the first time and going down to
breakfast in the morning had been blotted from my consciousness.

And this was the principle upon which I based my action at the
inquest. Leaving that half-hour and its occurrences out of the
question, I resolved to answer such questions as might be put me as
truthfully as I could; the great fault with men situated as I was
usually being that they lied too much, thus committing themselves on
unessential matters. But alas, in thus planning for my own safety, I
forgot one thing, and that was the dangerous position in which I should
thus place Mary Leavenworth as the one benefited by the crime. Not
till the inference was drawn by a juror, from the amount of wine found
in Mr. Leavenworth's glass in the morning, that he had come to his
death shortly after my leaving him, did I realize what an opening I had
made for suspicion in her direction by admitting that I had heard a
rustle on the stair a few minutes after going up. That all present
believed it to have been made by Eleanore, did not reassure me. She was
so completely disconnected with the crime I could not imagine suspicion
holding to her for an instant. But Mary--If a curtain had been let
down before me, pictured with the future as it has since developed, I
could not have seen more plainly what her position would be, if
attention were once directed towards her. So, in the vain endeavor to
cover up my blunder, I began to lie. Forced to admit that a shadow of
disagreement had been lately visible between Mr. Leavenworth and one of
his nieces, I threw the burden of it upon Eleanore, as the one best
able to bear it. The consequences were more serious than I anticipated.
Direction had been given to suspicion which every additional evidence
that now came up seemed by some strange fatality to strengthen. Not
only was it proved that Mr. Leavenworth's own pistol had been used in
the assassination, and that too by a person then in the house, but I
myself was brought to acknowledge that Eleanore had learned from me,
only a little while before, how to load, aim, and fire this very
pistol--a coincidence mischievous enough to have been of the devil's
own making.

Seeing all this, my fear of what the ladies would admit when
questioned became very great. Let them in their innocence acknowledge
that, upon my ascent, Mary had gone to her uncle's room for the purpose
of persuading him not to carry into effect the action he contemplated,
and what consequences might not ensue! I was in a torment of
apprehension. But events of which I had at that time no knowledge had
occurred to influence them. Eleanore, with some show of reason, as it
seems, not only suspected her cousin of the crime, but had informed her
of the fact, and Mary, overcome with terror at finding there was more
or less circumstantial evidence supporting the suspicion, decided to
deny whatever told against herself, trusting to Eleanore's generosity
not to be contradicted. Nor was her confidence misplaced. Though, by
the course she took, Eleanore was forced to deepen the prejudice
already rife against herself, she not only forbore to contradict her
cousin, but when a true answer would have injured her, actually refused
to return any, a lie being something she could not utter, even to save
one especially endeared to her.

This conduct of hers had one effect upon me. It aroused my
admiration and made me feel that here was a woman worth helping if
assistance could be given without danger to myself. Yet I doubt if my
sympathy would have led me into doing anything, if I had not perceived,
by the stress laid upon certain well-known matters, that actual danger
hovered about us all while the letter and key remained in the house.
Even before the handkerchief was produced, I had made up my mind to
attempt their destruction; but when that was brought up and shown, I
became so alarmed I immediately rose and, making my way under some
pretence or other to the floors above, snatched the key from the
gas-fixture, the lighters from the vase, and hastening with them down
the hall to Mary Leavenworth's room, went in under the expectation of
finding a fire there in which to destroy them. But, to my heavy
disappointment, there were only a few smoldering ashes in the grate,
and, thwarted in my design, I stood hesitating what to do, when I heard
some one coming up-stairs. Alive to the consequences of being found in
that room at that time, I cast the lighters into the grate and started
for the door. But in the quick move I made, the key flew from my hand
and slid under a chair. Aghast at the mischance, I paused, but the
sound of approaching steps increasing, I lost all control over myself
and fled from the room. And indeed I had no time to lose. I had barely
reached my own door when Eleanore Leavenworth, followed by two
servants, appeared at the top of the staircase and proceeded towards
the room I had just left. The sight reassured me; she would see the
key, and take some means of disposing of it; and indeed I always
supposed her to have done so, for no further word of key or letter ever
came to my ears. This may explain why the questionable position in
which Eleanore soon found herself awakened in me no greater anxiety. I
thought the suspicions of the police rested upon nothing more tangible
than the peculiarity of her manner at the inquest and the discovery of
her handkerchief on the scene of the tragedy. I did not know they
possessed what might be called absolute proof of her connection with
the crime. But if I had, I doubt if my course would have been any
different. Mary's peril was the one thing capable of influencing me,
and she did not appear to be in peril. On the contrary, every one, by
common consent, seemed to ignore all appearance of guilt on her part.
If Mr. Gryce, whom I soon learned to fear, had given one sign of
suspicion, or Mr. Raymond, whom I speedily recognized as my most
persistent though unconscious foe, had betrayed the least distrust of
her, I should have taken warning. But they did not, and, lulled into a
false security by their manner, I let the days go by without suffering
any fears on her account. But not without many anxieties for myself.
Hannah's existence precluded all sense of personal security. Knowing
the determination of the police to find her, I trod the verge of an
awful suspense continually.

Meantime the wretched certainty was forcing itself upon me that I
had lost, instead of gained, a hold on Mary Leavenworth. Not only did
she evince the utmost horror of the deed which had made her mistress of
her uncle's wealth, but, owing, as I believed, to the influence of Mr.
Raymond, soon gave evidence that she was losing, to a certain extent,
the characteristics of mind and heart which had made me hopeful of
winning her by this deed of blood. This revelation drove me almost
insane. Under the terrible restraint forced upon me, I walked my weary
round in a state of mind bordering on frenzy. Many and many a time have
I stopped in my work, wiped my pen and laid it down with the idea that
I could not repress myself another moment, but I have always taken it
up again and gone on with my task. Mr. Raymond has sometimes shown his
wonder at my sitting in my dead employer's chair. Great heaven! it was
my only safeguard. By keeping the murder constantly before my mind, I
was enabled to restrain myself from any inconsiderate action.

At last there came a time when my agony could be no longer
suppressed. Going down the stairs one evening with Mr. Raymond, I saw a
strange gentleman standing in the reception room, looking at Mary
Leavenworth in a way that would have made my blood boil, even if I had
not heard him whisper these words: "But you are my wife, and know it,
whatever you may say or do!"

It was the lightning-stroke of my life. After what I had done to
make her mine, to hear another claim her as already his own, was
stunning, maddening! It forced a demonstration from me. I had either
to yell in my fury or deal the man beneath some tremendous blow in my
hatred. I did not dare to shriek, so I struck the blow. Demanding his
name from Mr. Raymond, and hearing that it was, as I expected,
Clavering, I flung caution, reason, common sense, all to the winds, and
in a moment of fury denounced him as the murderer of Mr. Leavenworth.

The next instant I would have given worlds to recall my words. What
had I done but drawn attention to myself in thus accusing a man against
whom nothing could of course be proved! But recall now was impossible.
So, after a night of thought, I did the next best thing: gave a
superstitious reason for my action, and so restored myself to my former
position without eradicating from the mind of Mr. Raymond that vague
doubt of the man which my own safety demanded. But I had no intention
of going any further, nor should I have done so if I had not observed
that for some reason Mr. Raymond was willing to suspect Mr. Clavering.
But that once seen, revenge took possession of me, and I asked myself
if the burden of this crime could be thrown on this man. Still I do not
believe that any active results would have followed this
self-questioning if I had not overheard a whispered conversation
between two of the servants, in which I learned that Mr. Clavering had
been seen to enter the house on the night of the murder, but was not
seen to leave it. That determined me. With such a fact for a
starting-point, what might I not hope to accomplish? Hannah alone
stood in my way. While she remained alive I saw nothing but ruin before
me. I made up my mind to destroy her and satisfy my hatred of Mr.
Clavering at one blow. But how? By what means could I reach her
without deserting my post, or make away with her without exciting fresh
suspicion? The problem seemed insolvable; but Trueman Harwell had not
played the part of a machine so long without result. Before I had
studied the question a day, light broke upon it, and I saw that the
only way to accomplish my plans was to inveigle her into destroying
herself.

No sooner had this thought matured than I hastened to act upon it.
Knowing the tremendous risk I ran, I took every precaution. Locking
myself up in my room, I wrote her a letter in printed characters--she
having distinctly told me she could not read writing--in which I played
upon her ignorance, foolish fondness, and Irish superstition, by
telling her I dreamed of her every night and wondered if she did of me;
was afraid she didn't, so enclosed her _a._ little charm, which,
if she would use according to directions, would give her the most
beautiful visions. These directions were for her first to destroy my
letter by burning it, next to take in her hand the packet I was careful
to enclose, swallow the powder accompanying it, and go to bed. The
powder was a deadly dose of poison and the packet was, as you know, a
forged confession falsely criminating Henry Clavering. Enclosing all
these in an envelope in the corner of which I had marked a cross, I
directed it, according to agreement, to Mrs. Belden, and sent it.

Then followed the greatest period of suspense I had yet endured.
Though I had purposely refrained from putting my name to the letter, I
felt that the chances of detection were very great. Let her depart in
the least particular from the course I had marked out for her, and
fatal results must ensue. If she opened the enclosed packet, mistrusted
the powder, took Mrs. Belden into her confidence, or even failed to
burn my letter, all would be lost. I could not be sure of her or know
the result of my scheme except through the newspapers. Do you think I
kept watch of the countenances about me? devoured the telegraphic
news, or started when the bell rang? And when, a few days since, I
read that short paragraph in the paper which assured me that my efforts
had at least produced the death of the woman I feared, do you think I
experienced any sense of relief?

But of that why speak? In six hours had come the summons from Mr.
Gryce, and--let these prison walls, this confession itself, tell the
rest. I am no longer capable of speech or action.



XXXIX. THE OUTCOME OF A GREAT CRIME

    "Leave her to Heaven
    And to those thorns that
    In her bosom lodge
    To prick and sting her."
        --Hamlet,

    "For she is wise, if I can judge of her;
    And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true;
    And true she is, as she has proved herself;
    And therefore like herself, wise, fair, and true,
    Shall she be placed in my constant soul."
        --Merchant of Venice.

"OH, ELEANORE!" I cried, as I made my way into her presence, "are
you prepared for very good news? News that will brighten these pale
cheeks and give the light back to these eyes, and make life hopeful and
sweet to you once more? Tell me," I urged, stooping over her where she
sat, for she looked ready to faint.

"I don't know," she faltered; "I fear your idea of good news and
mine may differ. No news can be good but----"

"What?" I asked, taking her hands in mine with a smile that ought
to have reassured her, it was one of such profound happiness. "Tell
me; do not be afraid."

But she was. Her dreadful burden had lain upon her so long it had
become a part of her being. How could she realize it was founded on a
mistake; that she had no cause to fear the past, present, or future?

But when the truth was made known to her; when, With all the fervor
and gentle tact of which I was capable, I showed her that her
suspicions had been groundless, and that Trueman Harwell, and not Mary,
was accountable for the evidences of crime which had led her into
attributing to her cousin the guilt of her uncle's death, her first
words were a prayer to be taken to the one she had so wronged. "Take
me to her! Oh, take me to her! I cannot breathe or think till I have
begged pardon of her on my knees. Oh, my unjust accusation! My unjust
accusation!"

Seeing the state she was in, I deemed it wise to humor her. So,
procuring a carriage, I drove with her to her cousin's home.

"Mary will spurn me; she will not even look at me; and she will be
right!" she cried, as we rolled away up the avenue. "An outrage
like this can never be forgiven. But God knows I thought myself
justified in my suspicions. If you knew--"

"I do know," I interposed. "Mary acknowledges that the
circumstantial evidence against her was so overwhelming, she was almost
staggered herself, asking if she could be guiltless with such proofs
against her. But----"

"Wait, oh, wait; did Mary say that?"

"Yes."

"To-day?"

"Yes."

"Mary must be changed."

I did not answer; I wanted her to see for herself the extent of
that change. But when, in a few minutes later, the carriage stopped and
I hurried with her into the house which had been the scene of so much
misery, I was hardly prepared for the difference in her own countenance
which the hall light revealed. Her eyes were bright, her cheeks were
brilliant, her brow lifted and free from shadow; so quickly does the
ice of despair melt in the sunshine of hope.

Thomas, who had opened the door, was sombrely glad to see his
mistress again. "Miss Leavenworth is in the drawing-room," said he.

I nodded, then seeing that Eleanore could scarcely move for
agitation, asked her whether she would go in at once, or wait till she
was more composed.

"I will go in at once; I cannot wait." And slipping from my
grasp, she crossed the hall and laid her hand upon the drawing-room
curtain, when it was suddenly lifted from within and Mary stepped out.

"Mary!"

"Eleanore!"

The ring of those voices told everything. I did not need to glance
their way to know that Eleanore had fallen at her cousin's feet, and
that her cousin had affrightedly lifted her. I did not need to hear:
"My sin against you is too great; you cannot forgive me!" followed by
the low: "My shame is great enough to lead me to forgive anything!"
to know that the lifelong shadow between these two had dissolved like a
cloud, and that, for the future, bright days of mutual confidence and
sympathy were in store.

Yet when, a half-hour or so later, I heard the door of the reception
room, into which I had retired, softly open, and looking up, saw Mary
standing on the threshold, with the light of true humility on her face,
I own that I was surprised at the softening which had taken place in
her haughty beauty. "Blessed is the shame that purifies," I inwardly
murmured, and advancing, held out my hand with a respect and sympathy I
never thought to feel for her again.

The action seemed to touch her. Blushing deeply, she came and stood
by my side. "I thank you," said she. "I have much to be grateful for;
how much I never realized till to-night; but I cannot speak of it
now. What I wish is for you to come in and help me persuade Eleanore to
accept this fortune from my hands. It is hers, you know; was willed to
her, or would have been if--"

"Wait," said I, in the trepidation which this appeal to me on such
a subject somehow awakened. "Have you weighed this matter well? Is it
your determined purpose to transfer your fortune into your cousin's
hands?"

Her look was enough without the low, "Ah, how can you ask me?"
that followed it.

Mr. Clavering was sitting by the side of Eleanore when we entered
the drawing-room. He immediately rose, and drawing me to one side,
earnestly said:

"Before the courtesies of the hour pass between us, Mr. Raymond,
allow me to tender you my apology. You have in your possession a
document which ought never to have been forced upon you. Founded upon a
mistake, the act was an insult which I bitterly regret. If, in
consideration of my mental misery at that time, you can pardon it, I
shall feel forever indebted to you; if not----"

"Mr. Clavering, say no more. The occurrences of that day belong to
a past which I, for one, have made up my mind to forget as soon as
possible. The future promises too richly for us to dwell on bygone
miseries."

And with a look of mutual understanding and friendship we hastened
to rejoin the ladies.

Of the conversation that followed, it is only necessary to state the
result. Eleanore, remaining firm in her refusal to accept property so
stained by guilt, it was finally agreed upon that it should be devoted
to the erection and sustainment of some charitable institution of
magnitude sufficient to be a recognized benefit to the city and its
unfortunate poor. This settled, our thoughts returned to our friends,
especially to Mr. Veeley.

"He ought to know," said Mary. "He has grieved like a father over us."
And, in her spirit of penitence, she would have undertaken the
unhappy task of telling him the truth.

But Eleanore, with her accustomed generosity, would not hear of
this. "No, Mary," said she; "you have suffered enough. Mr. Raymond
and I will go."

And leaving them there, with the light of growing hope and
confidence on their faces, we went out again into the night, and so
into a dream from which I have never waked, though the shine of her
dear eyes have been now the load-star of my life for many happy, happy
months.








This etext was produced by Col Choat.





A Lady's Visit to the Gold Diggings of Australia in 1852-53
by Mrs Charles (Ellen) Clacy





CONTENTS


Chapter  I.      INTRODUCTORY REMARKS
Chapter  II.     THE VOYAGE OUT
Chapter  III.    STAY IN MELBOURNE
Chapter  IV.     CAMPING UP--MELBOURNE TO THE BLACK FOREST
Chapter  V.      CAMPING UP--BLACK FOREST TO EAGLE HAWK GULLY
Chapter  VI.     THE DIGGINGS
Chapter  VII.    EAGLE HAWK GULLY
Chapter  VIII.   AN ADVENTURE
Chapter  IX.     HARRIETTE WALTERS
Chapter  X.      IRONBARK GULLY
Chapter  XI.     FOREST CREEK
Chapter  XII.    RETURN TO MELBOURNE
Chapter  XIII.   BALLARAT
Chapter  XIV.    NEW SOUTH WALES
Chapter  XV.     SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Chapter  XVI.    MELBOURNE AGAIN
Chapter  XVII.   HOMEWARD BOUND
Chapter  XVIII.  CONCLUSION
APPENDIX.        WHO SHOULD EMIGRATE?






Chapter I.



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS


It may be deemed presumptuous that one of my age and sex should venture
to give to the public an account of personal adventures in a land which
has so often been descanted upon by other and abler pens; but when I
reflect on the many mothers, wives, and sisters in England, whose
hearts are ever longing for information respecting the dangers and
privations to which their relatives at the antipodes are exposed,
I cannot but hope that the presumption of my undertaking may be
pardoned in consideration of the pleasure which an accurate description
of some of the Australian Gold Fields may perhaps afford to many; and
although the time of my residence in the colonies was short, I had the
advantage (not only in Melbourne, but whilst in the bush) of constant
intercourse with many experienced diggers and old colonists--thus
having every facility for acquiring information respecting Victoria and
the other colonies.

It was in the beginning of April, 185-, that the excitement
occasioned by the published accounts of the Victoria "Diggings,"
induced my brother to fling aside his Homer and Euclid for the various
"Guides" printed for the benefit of the intending gold-seeker, or to
ponder over the shipping columns of the daily papers. The love of
adventure must be contagious, for three weeks after (so rapid were our
preparations) found myself accompanying him to those auriferous
regions. The following pages will give an accurate detail of my
adventures there--in a lack of the marvellous will consist their
principal faults but not even to please would I venture to turn
uninteresting truth into agreeable fiction. Of the few statistics which
occur, I may safely say, as of the more personal portions, that they
are strictly true.




Chapter II.



THE VOYAGE OUT


Everything was ready--boxes packed, tinned, and corded; farewells
taken, and ourselves whirling down by rail to Gravesend--too much
excited--too full of the future to experience that sickening of the
heart, that desolation of the feelings, which usually accompanies an
expatriation, however voluntary, from the dearly loved shores of one's
native land. Although in the cloudy month of April, the sun shone
brightly on the masts of our bonny bark, which lay in full sight of the
windows of the "Old Falcon," where we had taken up our temporary
quarters. The sea was very rough, but as we were anxious to get
on board without farther delay, we entrusted our valuable lives in a
four-oared boat, despite the dismal prognostications of our worthy
host. A pleasant row that was, at one moment covered over with
salt-water--the next riding on the top of a wave, ten times the size
of our frail conveyance--then came a sudden concussion--in veering
our rudder smashed into a smaller boat, which immediately filled and
sank, and our rowers disheartened at this mishap would go no farther.
The return was still rougher--my face smarted dreadfully from the
cutting splashes of the salt-water; they contrived, however, to land us
safely at the "Old Falcon," though in a most pitiable plight; charging
only a sovereign for this delightful trip--very moderate, considering
the number of salt-water baths they had given us gratis. In the evening
a second trial proved more successful, and we reached our vessel
safely.

A first night on board ship has in it something very strange, and the
first awakening in the morning is still more so. To find oneself in a
space of some six feet by eight, instead of a good-sized room, and
lying in a cot, scarce wide enough to turn round in, as a
substitute for a four-post bedstead, reminds you in no very agreeable
manner that you have exchanged the comforts of Old England for the
"roughing it" of a sea life. The first sound that awoke me was the
"cheerily" song of the sailors, as the anchor was heaved--not again,
we trusted, to be lowered till our eyes should rest on the waters of
Port Philip. And then the cry of "raise tacks and sheets" (which I, in
nautical ignorance, interpreted "hay-stacks and sheep") sent many a
sluggard from their berths to bid a last farewell to the banks of the
Thames.

In the afternoon we parted company with our steam-tug, and next
morning, whilst off the Isle of Wight, our pilot also took his
departure. Sea-sickness now became the fashion, but, as I cannot speak
from experience of its sensations, I shall altogether decline the
subject. On Friday, the 30th, we sighted Stark Point; and as the last
speck of English land faded away in the distance, an intense feeling of
misery crept over me, as I reflected that perchance I had left those
most dear to return to them no more. But I forget; a description of
private feelings is, to uninterested readers, only so much
twaddle, besides being more egotistical than even an account of
personal adventures could extenuate; so, with the exception of a few
extracts from my "log," I shall jump at once from the English Channel
to the more exciting shores of Victoria.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, lat. 45 degrees 57 minutes N., long. 11 degrees 45
minutes W.--Whilst off the Bay of Biscay, for the first time I had the
pleasure of seeing the phosphoric light in the water, and the effect was
indeed too beautiful to describe. I gazed again and again, and, as the
darkness above became more dense, the silence of evening more profound,
and the moving lights beneath more brilliant, I could have believed them
the eyes of the Undines, who had quitted their cool grottos beneath the
sea to gaze on the daring ones who were sailing above them. At times one
of these stars of the ocean would seem to linger around our vessel, as
though loth to leave the admiring eyes that watched its glittering
progress.* * * * *

SUNDAY, 9, lat. 37 degrees 53 minutes N., long. 15 degrees 32 minutes W.--
Great excitement throughout the ship. Early in the morning a
homeward-bound sail hove in sight, and as the sea was very calm, our
captain kindly promised to lower a boat and send letters by her. What a
scene then commenced; nothing but scribes and writing-desks met the view,
and nought was heard but the scratching of pens, and energetic demands for
foreign letter-paper, vestas, or sealing-wax; then came a rush on deck, to
witness the important packet delivered to the care of the first mate,
and watch the progress of the little bark that was to bear among so
many homes the glad tidings of our safety. On she came--her stunsails
set--her white sails glittering in the sun--skimming like a sea-bird
over the waters. She proved to be the Maltese schooner 'Felix,' bound
for Bremen. Her captain treated the visitors from our ship with the
greatest politeness, promised to consign our letters to the first pilot
he should encounter off the English coast, and sent his very last
oranges as a present to the ladies, for which we sincerely thanked him;
the increasing heat of the weather made them acceptable indeed.

WEDNESDAY, 12, lat. 33 degrees 19 minutes N., long. 17 degrees 30
minutes W.--At about noon we sighted Madeira. At first it appeared little
more than a dark cloud above the horizon; gradually the sides of the rocks
became clearly discernible, then the wind bore us onward, and soon all
traces of the sunny isle were gone.

FRIDAY, 28, lat. 4 degrees 2 minutes N., long. 21 degrees 30 minutes W.--
Another opportunity of sending letters, but as this was the second time of
so doing, the excitement was proportionately diminished. This vessel was
bound for the port of Liverpool, from the coast of Africa; her cargo (so
said those of our fellow-travellers who boarded her), consisted of ebony
and gold-dust, her only passengers being monkeys and parrots.

SUNDAY, JUNE 6, long. 24 degrees 38 minutes W.--Crossed the Line, to the
great satisfaction of all on board, as we had been becalmed more than a
week, and were weary of gazing upon the unruffled waters around us, or
watching the sails as they idly flapped to and fro. Chess, backgammon,
books and cards, had ceased to beguile the hours away, and the only
amusement left was lowering a boat and rowing about within a short
distance of the ship, but this (even by those not pulling at the oars)
was considered too fatiguing work, for a tropical sun was above us, and
the heat was most intense. Our only resource was to give ourselves up
to a sort of DOLCE FAR NIENTE existence, and lounge upon the
deck, sipping lemonade or lime-juice, beneath a large awning which
extended from the fore to the mizen masts.

TUESDAY, AUGUST 17, lat. 39 degrees 28 minutes S., long. 136 degrees 31
minutes E.--Early this morning one of the sailors died, and before noon
the last services of the Church of England were read over his body; this
was the first and only death that occurred during our long passage, and
the solemnity of committing his last remains to their watery grave cast a
saddening influence over the most thoughtless. I shall never forget the
moment when the sewn-up hammock, with a gaily coloured flag wrapped round
it, was launched into the deep; those who can witness with indifference a
funeral on land, would, I think, find it impossible to resist the
thrilling awe inspired by such an event at sea.

FRIDAY, 20, lat. 38 degrees 57 minutes S., long. 140 degrees 5 minutes
E.--Sighted Moonlight Head, the next day Cape Otway; and in the afternoon
of Sunday, the 22nd, we entered the Heads, and our pilot came on board. He
was a smart, active fellow, and immediately anchored us within the bay
(a heavy gale brewing); and then, after having done colonial justice to a
substantial dinner, he edified us with the last Melbourne news. "Not a
spare room or bed to be had--no living at all under a pound a-day--
every one with ten fingers making ten to twenty pounds a-week." "Then
of course no one goes to the diggings?" "Oh, that pays better still--
the gold obliged to be quarried--a pound weight of no value." The
excitement that evening can scarcely be imagined, but it somewhat
abated next morning on his telling us to diminish his accounts some 200
per cent.

MONDAY, 23.--The wind high, and blowing right against us. Compelled to
remain at anchor, only too thankful to be in such safe quarters.

TUESDAY, 24.--Got under weigh at half-past seven in the morning, and
passed the wrecks of two vessels, whose captains had attempted to come
in without a pilot, rather than wait for one--the increased number of
vessels arriving, causing the pilots to be frequently all engaged. The
bay, which is truly splendid, was crowded with shipping. In a few hours
our anchor was lowered for the last time--boats were put off
towards our ship from Liardet's Beach--we were lowered into the first
that came alongside--a twenty minutes' pull to the landing-place--
another minute, and we trod the golden shores of Victoria.




Chapter III.



STAY IN MELBOURNE


At last we are in Australia. Our feet feel strange as they tread upon
TERRA FIRMA, and our SEA-LEGS (to use a sailor's phrase) are not so
ready to leave us after a four months' service, as we should have
anticipated; but it matters little, for we are in the colonies, walking
with undignified, awkward gait, not on a fashionable promenade, but
upon a little wooden pier.

The first sounds that greet our ears are the noisy tones of some
watermen, who are loitering on the building of wooden logs and boards,
which we, as do the good people of Victoria, dignify with the
undeserved title of PIER. There they stand in their waterproof caps and
skins--tolerably idle and exceedingly independent--with one eye on
the look out for a fare, and the other cast longingly towards the open
doors of Liardet's public-house, which is built a few yards from the
landing-place, and alongside the main road to Melbourne.

"Ah, skipper! times isn't as they used to was," shouted one, addressing
the captain of one of the vessels then lying in the bay, who was rowing
himself to shore, with no other assistant or companion than a
sailor-boy. The captain, a well-built, fine-looking specimen of an
English seaman, merely laughed at this impromptu salutation.

"I say, skipper, I don't quite like that d----d stroke of yours."

No answer; but, as if completely deaf to these remarks, as well as the
insulting tone in which they were delivered, the "skipper" continued
giving his orders to his boy, and then leisurely ascended the steps. He
walked straight up to the waterman, who was lounging against the
railing.

"So, my fine fellow, you didn't quite admire that stroke of
mine. Now, I've another stroke that I think you'll admire still less,"
and with one blow he sent him reeling against the railing on the
opposite side.

The waterman slowly recovered his equilibrium, muttering, "that was a
safe dodge, as the gentleman knew he was the heaviest man of the two."

"Then never let your tongue say what your fist can't defend," was the
cool retort, as another blow sent him staggering to his original place,
amidst the unrestrained laughter of his companions, whilst the captain
unconcernedly walked into Liardet's, whither we also betook ourselves,
not a little surprised and amused by this our first introduction to
colonial customs and manners.

The fact is, the watermen regard the masters of the ships in the bay as
sworn enemies to their business; many are runaway sailors, and
therefore, I suppose, have a natural antipathy that way; added to
which, besides being no customers themselves, the "skippers," by the
loan of their boats, often save their friends from the exorbitant
charges these watermen levy.

Exorbitant they truly are. Not a boat would they put off for the
nearest ship in the bay for less than a pound, and before I quitted
those regions, two and three times that sum was often demanded for only
one passenger. We had just paid at the rate of only three shillings and
sixpence each, but this trifling charge was in consideration of the
large party--more than a dozen--who had left our ship in the same
boat together.

Meanwhile we have entered Liardet's EN ATTENDANT the Melbourne omnibus,
some of our number, too impatient to wait longer, had already started
on foot. We were shown into a clean, well-furnished sitting-room, with
mahogany dining-table and chairs, and a showy glass over the
mantelpicce. An English-looking barmaid entered. "Would the company
like some wine or spirits?" Some one ordered sherry, of which I only
remember that it was vile trash at eight shillings a bottle.

And now the cry of "Here's the bus," brought us quickly outside again,
where we found several new arrivals also waiting for it. I had hoped,
from the name, or rather misname, of the conveyance, to gladden my eyes
with the sight of something civilized. Alas, for my disappointment!
There stood a long, tumble-to-pieces-looking waggon, not covered
in, with a plank down each side to sit upon, and a miserable narrow
plank it was. Into this vehicle were crammed a dozen people and an
innumerable host of portmanteaus, large and small, carpet-bags,
baskets, brown-paper parcels, bird-cage and inmate, &c., all of which,
as is generally the case, were packed in a manner the most calculated
to contribute the largest amount of inconvenience to the live portion
of the cargo. And to drag this grand affair into Melbourne were
harnessed thereto the most wretched-looking objects in the shape of
horses that I had ever beheld.

A slight roll tells us we are off.

"And is THIS the beautiful scenery of Australia?" was my first
melancholy reflection. Mud and swamp--swamp and mud--relieved here
and there by some few trees which looked as starved and miserable as
ourselves. The cattle we passed appeared in a wretched condition, and
the human beings on the road seemed all to belong to one family, so
truly Vandemonian was the cast of their countenances.

"The rainy season's not over," observed the driver, in an
apologetic tone. Our eyes and uneasy limbs most FEELINGLY corroborated
his statement, for as we moved along at a foot-pace, the rolling of the
omnibus, owing to the deep ruts and heavy soil, brought us into most
unpleasant contact with the various packages before-mentioned. On we
went towards Melbourne--now stopping for the unhappy horses to take
breath--then passing our pedestrian messmates, and now arriving at a
small specimen of a swamp; and whilst they (with trowsers tucked high
above the knee and boots well saturated) step, slide and tumble
manfully through it, we give a fearful roll to the left, ditto, ditto
to the right, then a regular stand-still, or perhaps, by way of
variety, are all but jolted over the animals' heads, till at length all
minor considerations of bumps and bruises are merged in the anxiety to
escape without broken bones.

"The Yarra," said the conductor. I looked straight ahead, and
innocently asked "Where?" for I could only discover a tract of marsh or
swamp, which I fancy must have resembled the fens of Lincolnshire, as
they were some years ago, before draining was introduced into
that county. Over Princes Bridge we now passed, up Swanston Street,
then into Great Bourke Street, and now we stand opposite the
Post-office--the appointed rendezvous with the walkers, who are there
awaiting us. Splashed, wet and tired, and also, I must confess, very
cross, right thankful was I to be carried over the dirty road and be
safely deposited beneath the wooden portico outside the Post-office.
Our ride to Melbourne cost us only half-a-crown a piece, and a shilling
for every parcel. The distance we had come was between two and three
miles.

The non-arrival of the mail-steamer left us now no other care save the
all-important one of procuring food and shelter. Scouts were
accordingly despatched to the best hotels; they returned with long
faces--"full." The second-rate, and in fact every respectable inn and
boarding or lodging-house were tried but with no better success. Here
and there a solitary bed could be obtained, but for our digging party
entire, which consisted of my brother, four shipmates, and myself, no
accommodation could be procured, and we wished, if possible, to
keep together. "It's a case," ejaculated one, casting his eyes to the
slight roof above us as if calculating what sort of night shelter it
would afford. At this moment the two last searchers approached, their
countenances not quite so woe-begone as before. "Well?" exclaimed we
all in chorus, as we surrounded them, too impatient to interrogate at
greater length. Thank Heavens! they had been successful! The
house-keeper of a surgeon, who with his wife had just gone up to Forest
Creek, would receive us to board and lodge for thirty shillings a week
each; but as the accommodation was of the indifferent order, it was not
as yet UNE AFFAIRE ARRANGEE. On farther inquiry, we found the
indifferent accommodation consisted in their being but one small
sleeping-room for the gentlemen, and myself to share the bed and
apartment of the temporary mistress. This was vastly superior to
gipsying in the dirty streets, so we lost no time in securing our new
berths, and ere very long, with appetites undiminished by these petty
anxieties, we did ample justice to the dinner which our really kind
hostess quickly placed before us.

The first night on shore after so long a voyage could scarcely
seem otherwise than strange, one missed the eternal rocking at which so
many grumble on board ship. Dogs (Melbourne is full of them) kept up an
incessant barking; revolvers were cracking in all directions until
daybreak, giving one a pleasant idea of the state of society; and last,
not least, of these annoyances was one unmentionable to ears polite,
which would alone have sufficed to drive sleep away from poor wearied
me. How I envied my companion, as accustomed to these disagreeables,
she slept soundly by my side; but morning at length dawned, and I fell
into a refreshing slumber.

The next few days were busy ones for all, though rather dismal to me,
as I was confined almost entirely within doors, owing to the awful
state of the streets; for in the colonies, at this season of the year,
one may go out prepared for fine weather, with blue sky above, and dry
under foot, and in less than an hour, should a COLONIAL shower come on,
be unable to cross some of the streets without a plank being placed
from the middle of the road to the pathway, or the alternative of
walking in water up to the knees.

This may seem a doleful and overdrawn picture of my first
colonial experience, but we had arrived at a time when the colony
presented its worst aspect to a stranger. The rainy season had been
unusually protracted this year, in fact it was not yet considered
entirely over, and the gold mines had completely upset everything and
everybody, and put a stop to all improvements about the town or
elsewhere.

Our party, on returning to the ship the day after our arrival,
witnessed the French-leave-taking of all her crew, who during the
absence of the captain, jumped overboard, and were quickly picked up
and landed by the various boats about. This desertion of the ships by
the sailors is an every-day occurrence; the diggings themselves, or the
large amount they could obtain for the run home from another master,
offer too many temptations. Consequently, our passengers had the
amusement of hauling up from the hold their different goods and
chattels; and so great was the confusion, that fully a week elapsed
before they were all got to shore. Meanwhile we were getting initiated
into colonial prices--money did indeed take to itself wings and fly
away. Fire-arms were at a premium; one instance will suffice--my
brother sold a six-barrelled revolver for which he had given
sixty shillings at Baker's, in Fleet Street, for sixteen pounds, and
the parting with it at that price was looked upon as a great favour.
Imagine boots, and they very second-rate ones, at four pounds a pair.
One of our between-deck passengers who had speculated with a small
capital of forty pounds in boots and cutlery, told me afterwards that
he had disposed of them the same evening he had landed, at a net profit
of ninety pounds--no trifling addition to a poor man's purse. Labour
was at a very high price, carpenters, boot and shoemakers, tailors,
wheelwrights, joiners, smiths, glaziers, and, in fact, all useful
trades, were earning from twenty to thirty shillings a day--the very
men working on the roads could get eleven shillings PER DIEM, and, many
a gentleman in this disarranged state of affairs, was glad to fling old
habits aside and turn his hand to whatever came readiest. I knew one in
particular, whose brother is at this moment serving as colonel in the
army in India, a man more fitted for a gay London life than a residence
in the colonies. The diggings were too dirty and uncivilized for his
taste, his capital was quickly dwindling away beneath the
expenses of the comfortable life he led at one of the best hotels in
town, so he turned to what as a boy he had learnt for amusement, and
obtained an addition to his income of more than four hundred pounds a
year as house carpenter. In the morning you might see him trudging off
to his work, and before night might meet him at some ball or soiree
among the elite of Melbourne.

I shall not attempt an elaborate description of the town of Melbourne,
or its neighbouring villages. A subject so often and well discussed
might almost be omitted altogether. The town is very well laid out; the
streets (which are all straight, running parallel with and across one
another) are very wide, but are incomplete, not lighted, and many are
unpaved. Owing to the want of lamps, few, except when full moon, dare
stir out after dark. Some of the shops are very fair; but the goods all
partake too largely of the flash order, for the purpose of suiting the
tastes of successful diggers, their wives and families; it is ludicrous
to see them in the shops--men who, before the gold-mines were
discovered, toiled hard for their daily bread, taking off half-a-dozen
thick gold rings from their fingers, and trying to pull on to
their rough, well-hardened hands the best white kids, to be worn at
some wedding party; whilst the wife, proud of the novel ornament,
descants on the folly of hiding them beneath such useless articles as
gloves.

The two principal streets are Collins Street and Elizabeth Street. The
former runs east and west, the latter crossing it in the centre.
Melbourne is built on two hills, and the view from the top of Collins
Street East, is very striking on a fine day when well filled with
passengers and vehicles. Down the eye passes till it reaches Elizabeth
Street at the foot; then up again, and the moving mass seems like so
many tiny black specks in the distance, and the country beyond looks
but a little piece of green. A great deal of confusion arises from the
want of their names being painted on the corners of the streets: to a
stranger, this is particularly inconvenient, the more so, as being
straight, they appear all alike on first acquaintance. The confusion is
also increased by the same title, with slight variation, being applied
to so many, as, for instance, Collins Street East; Collins Street West;
Little Collins Street East; Little Collins Street West, &c. &c.
Churches and chapels for all sects and denominations meet the eye; but
the Established Church has, of all, the worst provision for its
members, only two small churches being as yet completed; and Sunday
after Sunday do numbers return from St. Peter's, unable to obtain even
standing room beneath the porch. For the gay, there are two circuses
and one theatre, where the "ladies" who frequent it smoke short
tobacco-pipes in the boxes and dress-circle.

The country round is very pretty, particularly Richmond and
Collingwood; the latter will, I expect, soon become part of Melbourne
itself. It is situated at the fashionable--that is, EAST--end of
Melbourne, and the buildings of the city and this suburban village are
making rapid strides towards each other. Of Richmond, I may remark that
it does possess a "Star and Garter," though a very different affair to
its namesake at the antipodes, being only a small public-house. On the
shores of the bay, at nice driving distances, are Brighton and St.
Kilda. Two or three fall-to-pieces bathing-machines are at present the
only stock in trade of these watering-places; still, should some
would-be fashionables among my readers desire to emigrate, it may
gratify them to learn that they need not forego the pleasure of
visiting Brighton in the season.

When I first arrived, as the weather was still very cold and wet, my
greatest source of discomfort arose from the want of coal-fires, and
the draughts, which are innumerable, owing to the slight manner in
which the houses are run up; in some the front entrance opens direct
into the sitting-rooms, very unpleasant, and entirely precluding the
"not at home" to an unwelcome visitor. Wood fires have at best but a
cheerless look, and I often longed for the bright blaze and merry
fireside of an English home. Firewood is sold at the rate of fifty
shillings for a good-sized barrow-full.

The colonists (I here speak of the old-established ones) are naturally
very hospitable, and disposed to receive strangers with great kindness;
but the present ferment has made them forget everything in the glitter
of their own mines, and all comfort is laid aside; money is the idol,
and making it is the one mania which absorbs every other thought.

The walking inhabitants are of themselves a study: glance into
the streets--all nations, classes, and costumes are represented there.
Chinamen, with pigtails and loose trowsers; Aborigines, with a solitary
blanket flung over them; Vandemonian pickpockets, with cunning eyes and
light fingers--all, in truth, from the successful digger in his blue
serge shirt, and with green veil still hanging round his wide-awake, to
the fashionably-attired, newly-arrived "gent" from London, who stares
around him in amazement and disgust. You may see, and hear too, some
thoroughly colonial scenes in the streets. Once, in the middle of the
day, when passing up Elizabeth Street, I heard the unmistakeable sound
of a mob behind, and as it was gaining upon me, I turned into the
enclosed ground in front of the Roman Catholic cathedral, to keep out
of the way of the crowd. A man had been taken up for horse-stealing and
a rare ruffianly set of both sexes were following the prisoner and the
two policemen who had him in charge. "If but six of ye were of my
mind," shouted one, "it's this moment you'd release him." The crowd
took the hint, and to it they set with right good will, yelling,
swearing, and pushing, with awful violence. The owner of the
stolen horse got up a counter demonstration, and every few yards, the
procession was delayed by a trial of strength between the two parties.
Ultimately the police conquered; but this is not always the case, and
often lives are lost and limbs broken in the struggle, so weak is the
force maintained by the colonial government for the preservation of
order.

Another day, when passing the Post-office, a regular tropical shower of
rain came on rather suddenly, and I hastened up to the platform for
shelter. As I stood there, looking out into Great Bourke Street, a man
and, I suppose, his wife passed by. He had a letter in his hand for the
post; but as the pathway to the receiving-box looked very muddy, he
made his companion take it to the box, whilst he himself, from beneath
his umbrella, complacently watched her getting wet through. "Colonial
politeness," thought I, as the happy couple walked on.

Sometimes a jovial wedding-party comes dashing through the streets;
there they go, the bridegroom with one arm round his lady's waist, the
other raising a champagne-bottle to his lips; the gay vehicles
that follow contain company even more unrestrained, and from them
noisier demonstrations of merriment may be heard. These diggers'
weddings are all the rage, and bridal veils, white kid gloves, and,
above all, orange blossoms are generally most difficult to procure at
any price.

At times, you may see men, half-mad, throwing sovereigns, like
halfpence, out of their pockets into the streets; and I once saw a
digger, who was looking over a large quantity of bank-notes,
deliberately tear to pieces and trample in the mud under his feet every
soiled or ragged one he came to, swearing all the time at the
gold-brokers for "giving him dirty paper money for pure Alexander gold;
he wouldn't carry dirt in his pocket; not he; thank God! he'd plenty to
tear up and spend too."

Melbourne is very full of Jews; on a Saturday, some of the streets are
half closed. There are only two pawnbrokers in the town.

The most thriving trade there, is keeping an hotel or public-house,
which always have a lamp before their doors. These at night serve as a
beacon to the stranger to keep as far from them as possible,
they being, with few exceptions, the resort, after dark, of the most
ruffianly characters.

        *  *  *  *  *

On the 2nd of September, the long-expected mail steamer arrived, and
two days after we procured our letters from the Post-office. I may here
remark, that the want of proper management in this department is the
greatest cause of inconvenience to fresh arrivals, and to the
inhabitants of Melbourne generally. There is but ONE SMALL WINDOW,
whence letters directed to lie at the office are given out; and as the
ships from England daily discharged their living cargoes into
Melbourne, the crowd round this inefficient delivering-place rendered
getting one's letters the work, not of hours, but days. Newspapers,
particularly pictorial ones, have, it would appear, a remarkable
facility for being lost EN ROUTE. Several numbers of the "Illustrated
London News" had been sent me, and, although the letters posted with
them arrived in safety, the papers themselves never made their
appearance. I did hear that, when addressed to an uncolonial name, and
with no grander direction than the Post-office itself, the
clerks are apt to apropriate them--this is, perhaps, only a wee bit of
Melbourne scandal.

The arrival of our letters from England left nothing now to detain us,
and made us all anxious to commence our trip to the diggings, although
the roads were in an awful condition. Still we would delay no longer,
and the bustle of preparation began. Stores of flour, tea, and sugar,
tents and canvas, camp-ovens, cooking utensils, tin plates and
pannikins, opossum rugs and blankets, drays, carts and horses, cradles,
&c. &c., had to be looked at, bought and paid for.

On board ship, my brother had joined himself to a party of four young
men, who had decided to give the diggings a trial. Four other of our
shipmates had also joined themselves into a digging-party, and when
they heard of our intended departure, proposed travelling up together
and separating on our arrival. This was settled, and a proposal made
that between the two sets they should raise funds to purchase a dray
and horses, and make a speculation in flour, tea, &c., on which an
immense profit was being made at the diggings. It would also
afford the convenience of taking up tents, cradles, and other articles
impossible to carry up without. The dray cost one hundred pounds, and
the two strong cart-horses ninety and one hundred pounds respectively.
This, with the goods themselves, and a few sundries in the shape of
harness and cords, made only a venture of about fifty pounds a-piece.
While these arrangements were rapidly progressing, a few other parties
wished to join ours for safety on the road, which was agreed to, and
the day fixed upon for the departure was the 7th of September. Every
one, except myself, was to walk, and we furthermore determined to "camp
out" as much as possible, and thus avoid the vicinity of the inns and
halting-places on the way, which are frequently the lurking-places of
thieves and bushrangers.

        *  *  *  *  *

On the Sunday previous to the day on which our journey was to commence,
I had a little adventure, which pleased me at the time, though, but for
the sequel, not worth mentioning here. I had walked with my brother and
a friend to St. Peter's Church; but we were a few minutes behind
time, and therefore could find no unoccupied seat. Thus disappointed,
we strolled over Princes Bridge on to the other side of the Yarra.
Between the bridge and the beach, on the south side of the river, is a
little city of tents, called Little Adelaide. They were inhabited by a
number of families, that the rumour of the Victoria gold-mines had
induced to leave South Australia, and whose finances were unequal to
the high prices in Melbourne.

Government levies a tax of five shillings a week on each tent, built
upon land as wild and barren as the bleakest common in England. We did
not wander this morning towards Little Adelaide; but followed the Yarra
in its winding course inland, in the direction of the Botanical
Gardens.

Upon a gentle rise beside the river, not far enough away from Melbourne
to be inconvenient, but yet sufficiently removed from its mud and
noise, were pitched two tents, evidently new, with crimson paint still
gay upon the round nobs of the centre posts, and looking altogether
more in trim for a gala day in Merry England than a trip to the
diggings. The sun was high above our heads, and the day
intensely hot; so much so, that I could not resist the temptation of
tapping at the canvas door to ask for a draught of water. A gentleman
obeyed the summons, and on learning the occasion of this unceremonious
visit, politely accommodated me with a camp-stool and some delicious
fresh milk--in Melbourne almost a luxury. Whilst I was imbibing this
with no little relish, my friends were entering into conversation with
our new acquaintance. The tents belonged to a party just arrived by the
steamer from England, with everything complete for the diggings, to
which they meant to proceed in another week, and where I had the
pleasure of meeting them again, though under different and very
peculiar circumstances. The tent which I had invaded was inhabited by
two, the elder of whom, a powerfully-built man of thirty, formed a
strong contrast to his companion, a delicate-looking youth, whose
apparent age could not have exceeded sixteen years.

After a short rest, we returned to Melbourne, well pleased with our
little adventure.

The next day was hardly long enough for our numerous preparations, and
it was late before we retired to rest. Six was the hour
appointed for the next morning's breakfast. Excited with anticipating
the adventures to commence on the morrow, no wonder that my dreams
should all be GOLDEN ones.




Chapter IV.



CAMPING UP--MELBOURNE TO THE BLACK FOREST


The anxiously-expected morning at length commenced, and a
dismal-looking morning it was--hazy and damp, with a small drizzling
rain, which, from the gloomy aspect above, seemed likely to last. It
was not, however, sufficient to damp our spirits, and the appointed
hour found us all assembled to attack the last meal that we anticipated
to make for some time to come beneath the shelter of a ceiling. At
eight o'clock our united party was to start from the "Duke of York"
hotel, and as that hour drew nigh, the unmistakeable signs of
"something up," attracted a few idlers to witness our departure. In
truth, we were a goodly party, and created no little sensation among
the loungers--but I must regularly introduce our troop to my readers.

First then, I must mention two large drays, each drawn by a pair of
stout horses--one the property of two Germans, who were bound for
Forest Creek, the other belonged to ourselves and shipmates. There were
three pack-horses--one (laden with a speculation in bran) belonged to
a queer-looking sailor, who went by the name of Joe, the other two were
under the care of a man named Gregory, who was going to rejoin his
mates at Eagle Hawk Gully. As his destination was the farthest, and he
was well acquainted with the roads, he ought to have been elected
leader, but from some mis-management that dignity was conferred upon a
stout old gentleman, who had taken a pleasure-trip to Mount Alexander,
the previous summer.

Starting is almost always a tedious affair, nor was this particular
case an exception. First one had forgotten something--another broke a
strap, and a new one had to be procured--then the dray was not
properly packed, and must be righted--some one else wanted an
extra "nobbler"--then a fresh, and still a fresh delay, so that
although eight was the appointed hour, it was noon ere we bade farewell
to mine host of the "Duke of York."

At length the word of command was spoken. Foremost came the gallant
captain (as we had dubbed him), and with him two ship doctors, in
partnership together, who carried the signs of their profession along
with them in the shape of a most surgeon-like mahogany box. Then came
the two Germans, complacently smoking their meerschaums, and attending
to their dray and horses, which latter, unlike their masters, were of a
very restless turn of mind. After these came a party of six, among whom
was Gregory and two lively Frenchmen, who kept up an incessant
chattering. Joe walked by himself, leading his pack-horse, then came
our four shipmates, two by two, and last, our own particular five.

Most carried on their backs their individual property--blankets,
provisions for the road, &c., rolled in a skin, and fastened over the
shoulders by leathern straps. This bundle goes by the name of "swag,"
and is the digger's usual accompaniment--it being too great a
luxury to place upon a dray or pack-horse anything not absolutely
necessary. This will be easily understood when it is known that
carriers, during the winter, obtained 120 pounds and sometimes 150 pounds
a ton for conveying goods to Bendigo (about one hundred miles from
Melbourne). Nor was the sum exorbitant, as besides the chance of a few
weeks' stick in the mud, they run great risk of injuring their horses or
bullocks; many a valuable beast has been obliged to be shot where it
stood, it being found impossible to extricate it from the mud and swamp.
At the time we started, the sum generally demanded was about 70 pounds per
ton. On the price of carriage up, depended of course the price of
provisions at the diggings.

The weight of one of these "swags" is far from light; the provender for
the road is itself by no means trifling, though that of course
diminishes by the way, and lightens the load a little. Still there are
the blankets, fire-arms, drinking and eating apparatus, clothing,
chamois-leather for the gold that has yet to be dug, and numberless
other cumbersome articles necessary for the digger. In every
belt was stuck either a large knife or a tomahawk; two shouldered their
guns (by the bye, rather imprudent, as the sight of fire-arms often
brings down an attack); some had thick sticks, fit to fell a bullock;
altogether, we seemed well prepared to encounter an entire army of
bushrangers. I felt tolerably comfortable perched upon our dray, amid a
mass of other soft lumber; a bag of flour formed an easy support to
lean against; on either side I was well walled in by the canvas and
poles of our tent; a large cheese made a convenient footstool. My
attire, although well suited for the business on hand, would hardly
have passed muster in any other situation. A dress of common dark blue
serge, a felt wide-awake, and a waterproof coat wrapped round me, made
a ludicrous assortment.

Going along at a foot-pace we descended Great Bourke Street, and made
our first halt opposite the Post-office, where one of our party made a
last effort to obtain a letter from his lady-love, which was, alas!
unsuccessful. But we move on again--pass the Horse Bazaar--turn into
Queen Street--up we go towards Flemington, leaving the
Melbourne cemetery on our right, and the flag-staff a little to the
left; and now our journey may be considered fairly begun.

Just out of Melbourne, passing to the east of the Benevolent Asylum, we
went over a little rise called Mount Pleasant, which, on a damp sort of
a day, with the rain beating around one, seemed certainly a misnomer.
After about two miles, we came to a branch-road leading to Pentridge,
where the Government convict establishment is situated. This we left on
our right, and through a line of country thickly wooded (consisting of
red and white gum, stringy bark, cherry and other trees), we arrived at
Flemington, which is about three miles and a half from town.

Flemington is a neat little village or town-ship, consisting of about
forty houses, a blacksmith's shop, several stores, and a good inn,
built of brick and stone, with very fair accommodation for travellers,
and a large stable and stock-yards.

After leaving Flemington, we passed several nice-looking homesteads;
some are on a very large scale, and belong to gentlemen connected
with Melbourne, who prefer "living out of town." On reaching the
top of the hill beyond Flemington there is a fine view of Melbourne,
the bay, William's Town, and the surrounding country, but the miserable
weather prevented us at this time from properly enjoying it. Sunshine
was all we needed to have made this portion of our travels truly
delightful.

The road was nicely level, fine trees sheltered it on either side,
whilst ever and anon some rustic farm-house was passed, or coffee-shop,
temporarily erected of canvas or blankets, offered refreshment (such as
it was), and the latest news of the diggings to those who had no
objection to pay well for what they had. This Flemington road (which is
considered the most Pleasant in Victoria, or at least anywhere near
Melbourne) is very good as far as Tulip Wright's, which we now
approached.

Wright's public-house is kept by the man whose name it bears; it is a
rambling ill-built, but withal pleasing-looking edifice, built chiefly
of weather-board and shingle, with a verandah all round. The whole is
painted white, and whilst at some distance from it a passing ray
of sunshine gave it a most peculiar effect. In front of the principal
entrance is a thundering large lamp, a most conspicuous looking object.
Wright himself was formerly in the police, and being a sharp fellow,
obtained the cognomen of "Tulip," by which both he and his house have
always been known; and so inseparable have the names become, that,
whilst "Tulip Wright's" is renowned well-nigh all over the colonies,
the simple name of the owner would create some inquiries. The state of
accommodation here may be gathered from the success of some of the
party who had a PENCHANT for "nobblers" of brandy. "Nothing but bottled
beer in the house." "What could we have for dinner?" inquired one,
rather amused at this Hobson's choice state of affairs. "The eatables
was only cold meat; and they couldn't cook nothink fresh," was the curt
reply. "Can we sleep here?" "Yes--under your drays." As we literally
determined to "camp out" on the journey, we passed on, without
partaking of their "cold eatables," or availing ourselves of their
permission to sleep under our own drays, and, leaving the road
to Sydney on our right, and the one to Keilor straight before us, we
turned short off to the left towards the Deep Creek.

Of the two rejected routes I will give a very brief account.

The right-hand road leads to Sydney, VIA Kilmore, and many going to the
diggings prefer using this road as far as that township. The country
about here is very flat, stony and destitute of timber; occasionally
the journey is varied by a water-hole or surface-spring. After several
miles, a public-house called the "Lady of the Lake" is reached, which
is reckoned by many the best country inn on this or any other road in
the colonies. The accommodation is excellent, and the rooms well
arranged, and independent of the house. There are ten or twelve rooms
which, on a push, could accommodate fifty or sixty people; six are
arranged in pairs for the convenience of married persons, and the
fashionable trip during the honey-moon (particularly for diggers'
weddings) is to the "Lady of the Lake." Whether Sir Walter's poem be
the origin of the sign, or whether the swamps in the rear, I cannot
say, but decidedly there is no lake and no lady, though I have
heard of a buxom lass, the landlord's daughter, who acts as barmaid,
and is a great favourite. This spot was the scene last May of a
horrible murder, which has added no little to the notoriety of the
neighbourhood.

After several miles you at length arrive at Kilmore, which is a large
and thriving township, containing two places of worship, several stores
and inns. There is a resident magistrate with his staff of officials,
and a station for a detachment of mounted police. Kilmore is on the
main overland road from Melbourne to Sydney, and, although not on the
confines of the two colonies, is rather an important place, from being
the last main township until you reach the interior of New South Wales.
The Government buildings are commodious and well arranged. There are
several farms and stations in the neighbourhood, but the country round
is flat and swampy.

The middle road leads you direct to Keilor, and you must cross the Deep
Creek in a dangerous part, as the banks thereabouts are very steep, the
stream (though narrow) very rapid, and the bottom stony. In 1851, the
bridge (an ordinary log one) was washed down by the floods, and
for two months all communication was cut off. Government have now put a
punt, which is worked backwards and forwards every half-hour from six
in the morning till six at night, at certain fares, which are doubled
after these hours. These fares are: for a passenger, 6d.; a horse or
bullock, 1s.; a two-wheeled vehicle, ls. 6d.; a loaded dray, 2s. The
punt is tolerably well managed, except when the man gets intoxicated--
not an unfrequent occurrence. When there was neither bridge nor punt,
those who wished to cross were obliged to ford it; and so strong has
been the current, that horses have been carried down one or two hundred
yards before they could effect a landing. Keilor is a pretty little
village with a good inn, several nice cottages, and a store or two. The
country round is hilly and barren--scarcely any herbage and that
little is rank and coarse; the timber is very scarce. This road to the
diggings is not much used.

But to return to ourselves. The rain and bad roads made travelling so
very wearisome, that before we had proceeded far it was unanimously
agreed that we should halt and pitch our first encampment.
"Pitch our first encampment! how charming!" exclaims some romantic
reader, as though it were an easily accomplished undertaking. Fixing a
gipsy-tent at a FETE CHAMPETRE, with a smiling sky above, and all
requisites ready to hand, is one thing, and attempting to sink poles
and erect tents out of blankets and rugs in a high wind and pelting
rain, is (if I may be allowed the colonialism) "a horse of quite
another colour." Some sort of sheltering-places were at length
completed; the horses were taken from the dray and tethered to some
trees within sight, and then we made preparations for satisfying the
unromantic cravings of hunger--symptoms of which we all, more or less,
began to feel. With some difficulty a fire was kindled and kept alight
in the hollow trunk of an old gum tree. A damper was speedily made,
which, with a plentiful supply of steaks and boiled and roasted eggs,
was a supper by no means to be despised. The eggs had been procured at
four shillings a dozen from a farm-house we had passed.

It was certainly the most curious tea-table at which I had ever
assisted. Chairs, of course, there were none, we sat or lounged
upon the ground as best suited our tired limbs; tin pannicans (holding
about a pint) served as tea-cups, and plates of the same metal in lieu
of china; a teapot was dispensed with; but a portly substitute was
there in the shape of an immense iron kettle, just taken from the fire
and placed in the centre of our grand tea-service, which being new, a
lively imagination might mistake for silver. Hot spirits, for those
desirous of imbibing them, followed our substantial repast; but fatigue
and the dreary weather had so completely damped all disposition to
conviviality, that a very short space of time found all fast asleep
except the three unfortunates on the watch, which was relieved every
two hours.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8.--I awoke rather early this morning, not
feeling over-comfortable from having slept in my clothes all night,
which it is necessary to do on the journey, so as never to be
unprepared for any emergency. A small corner of my brother's tent had
been partitioned off for my BED-ROOM; it was quite dark, so my first
act on waking was to push aside one of the blankets, still wet,
which had been my roof during the night, and thus admit air and light
into my apartments. Having made my toilette--after a fashion--I
joined my companions on the watch, who were deep in the mysteries of
preparing something eatable for breakfast. I discovered that their
efforts were concentrated on the formation of a damper, which seemed to
give them no little difficulty. A damper is the legitimate, and, in
fact, only bread of the bush, and should be made solely of flour and
water, well mixed and kneaded into a cake, as large as you like, but
not more than two inches in thickness, and then placed among the hot
ashes to bake. If well-made, it is very sweet and a good substitute for
bread. The rain had, however, spoiled our ashes, the dough would
neither rise nor brown, so in despair we mixed a fresh batch of flour
and water, and having fried some rashers of fat bacon till they were
nearly melted, we poured the batter into the pan and let it fry till
done. This impromptu dish gave general satisfaction and was pronounced
a cross between a pancake and a heavy suet pudding.

Breakfast over, our temporary residences were pulled down, the
drays loaded, and our journey recommenced.

We soon reached the Deep Creek, and crossed by means of a punt, the
charges being the same as the one at Keilor. Near here is a station
belonging to Mr. Ryleigh, which is a happy specimen of a squatter's
home--everything being managed in a superior manner. The house itself
is erected on a rise and surrounded by an extensive garden, vinery and
orchard, all well stocked and kept; some beautifully enclosed paddocks
reach to the Creek, and give an English park-like appearance to the
whole. The view from here over the bay and Brighton is splendid; you
can almost distinguish Geelong. About a quarter of a mile off is a
little hamlet with a neat Swiss-looking church, built over a
school-room on a rise of ground; it has a most peculiar effect, and is
the more singular as the economizing the ground could not be a
consideration in the colony; on the left of the church is a pretty
little parsonage, whitewashed, with slate roof and green-painted
window-frames.

I still fancy, though our redoubtable captain most strenuously
denied it, that we had in some manner gone out of our way; however that
may be, the roads seemed worse and worse as we proceeded, and our pace
became more tedious as here and there it was up-hill work till at
length we reached the Keilor plains. It was almost disheartening to
look upon that vast expanse of flat and dreary land except where the
eye lingered on the purple sides of Mount Macedon, which rose far
distant in front of us. On entering the plains we passed two or three
little farm-houses, coffee-shops, &c., and encountered several parties
coming home for a trip to Melbourne. For ten miles we travelled on
dismally enough, for it rained a great deal, and we were constantly
obliged to halt to get the horses rested a little. We now passed a
coffee-shop, which although only consisting of a canvas tent and little
wooden shed, has been known to accommodate above forty people of a
night. As there are always plenty of bad characters lounging in the
neighbourhood of such places, we kept at a respectful distance, and did
not make our final halt till full two miles farther on our road. Tents
were again pitched, but owing to their not being fastened over
securely, many of us got an unwished-for shower-bath during the
night; but this is nothing--at the antipodes one soon learns to laugh
at such trifles.

THURSDAY, 9.--This morning we were up betimes, some of our party being
so sanguine as to anticipate making the "Bush Inn" before evening. As
we proceeded, this hope quickly faded away. The Keilor plains seemed
almost impassable, and what with pieces of rock here, and a water-hole
there, crossing them was more dangerous than agreeable. Now one passed
a broken-down dray; then one's ears were horrified at the oaths an
unhappy wight was venting at a mud-hole into which he had stumbled. A
comical object he looked, as, half-seas-over, he attempted to pull on a
mud-covered boot, which he had just extricated from the hole where it
and his leg had parted company. A piece of wood, which his imagination
transformed into a shoe-horn, was in his hand. "Put it into the
larboard side," (suiting the action to the word), "there it goes--damn
her, she won't come on! Put it into the starboard side there it goes--
well done, old girl," and he triumphantly rose from the ground, and
reeled away.

With a hearty laugh, we proceeded on our road, and after passing
two or three coffee-tents, we arrived at Gregory's Inn. The landlord is
considered the best on the road, and is a practical example of what
honesty and industry may achieve. He commenced some nine months before
without a shilling--his tarpaulin tent and small stock of tea, sugar,
coffee, &c., being a loan. He has now a large weather-board house,
capable of making up one hundred beds, and even then unable to
accommodate all his visitors, so numerous are they, from the good name
he bears. Here we got a capital cold dinner of meat, bread, cheese,
coffee, tea, &c., for three shillings a-piece, and, somewhat refreshed,
went forwards in better spirits, though the accounts we heard there of
the bad roads in the Black Forest would have disheartened many.

Mount Macedon now formed quite a beautiful object on our right: a
little below that mountain appeared a smaller one, called the Bald
Hill, from its peak being quite barren, and the soil of a white
limestone and quartzy nature, which gives it a most peculiar and
splendid appearance when the sun's rays are shining upon it. As
we advanced, the thickly-wooded sides of Mount Macedon became more
distinct, and our proximity to a part of the country which we knew to
be auriferous, exercised an unaccountable yet pleasureable influence
over our spirits, which was perhaps increased by the loveliness of the
spot where we now pitched our tents for the evening. It was at the foot
of the Gap. The stately gum-tree, the shea-oak, with its gracefully
drooping foliage, the perfumed yellow blossom of the mimosa, the
richly-wooded mountain in the background, united to form a picture too
magnificent to describe. The ground was carpeted with wild flowers; the
sarsaparilla blossoms creeping everywhere; before us slowly rippled a
clear streamlet, reflecting a thousand times the deepening tints which
the last rays of the setting sun flung over the surrounding scenery;
the air rang with the cawing of the numerous cockatoos and parrots of
all hues and colours who made the woods resound with their tones,
whilst their restless movements and gay plumage gave life and piquancy
to the scene.

This night our beds were composed of the mimosa, which has a perfume
like the hawthorn. The softest-looking branches were selected,
cut down, and flung upon the ground beneath the tents, and formed a bed
which, to my wearied limbs, appeared the softest and most luxuriant
upon which I had slept since my arrival in the colonies.

FRIDAY, 10.--With some reluctance I aroused myself from a very heavy
slumber produced by the over fatigue of the preceding day. I found
every one preparing to start; kindly considerate, my companions thought
a good sleep more refreshing for me than breakfast, and had deferred
awakening me till quite obliged, so taking a few sailors' biscuits in
my pocket to munch on the way, I bade farewell to a spot whose natural
beauties I have never seen surpassed.

Proceeding onwards, we skirted the Bald Hill, and entering rather a
scrubby tract, crossed a creek more awkward for our drays than
dangerous to ourselves; we then passed two or three little
coffee-shops, which being tents are always shifting their quarters,
crossed another plain, very stony and in places swampy, which
terminated in a thickly-wooded tract of gum and wattle trees. Into this
wood we now entered. After about five miles uncomfortable
travelling we reached the "Bush Inn."

I must here observe that no DISTINCT road is ever cut out, but the
whole country is cut up into innumerable tracks by the carts and drays,
and which are awfully bewildering to the new-comer as they run here and
there, now crossing a swamp, now a rocky place, here a creek, there a
hillock, and yet, in many cases, all leading BONA FIDE to the same
place.

The "Bush Inn" (the genuine one, for there are two) consists of a
large, well-built, brick and weather-board house, with bed-rooms for
private families. There is a detached weather-board, and stone kitchen,
and tap-room, with sleeping-lofts above, a large yard with sheds and
good stabling. A portion of the house and stables is always engaged for
the use of the escort. About two hundred yards off is the "New Bush
Inn," somewhat similar to the other, not quite so large, with an
attempt at a garden. The charges at these houses are enormous. Five and
six shillings per meal, seven-and-sixpence for a bottle of ale, and one
shilling for half a glass or "nobbler" of brandy. About half a
mile distant is a large station belonging to Mr. Watson; the houses,
huts and yards are very prettily laid out, and, in a few years he will
have the finest vineyard in the neighbourhood. Two miles to the east is
the residence of Mr. Poullett, Commissioner of Crown Lands, which is
very pleasantly situated on the banks of an ever-running stream. The
paddock, which is a large one (10 square miles, or 6400 acres), is well
wooded. Some new police barracks and stabling yards are in the course
of erection.

We did not linger in the "Bush Inn," but pursued our way over a marshy
flat, crossed a dangerous creek, and having ascended a steep and
thickly wooded hill on the skirts of the Black Forest, we halted and
pitched our tents. It was little more than mid-day, but the road had
been fearful--as bad as wading through a mire; men and beasts were
worn out, and it was thought advisable to recruit well before entering
the dreaded precincts of the Black Forest. Fires were lit, supper was
cooked, spirits and pipes made their appearance, songs were sung, and a
few of the awful exploits of Black Douglas and his followers were
related. Later in the evening, an opossum was shot by one of us.
Its skin was very soft, with rich, brown hair.

SATURDAY, 11--A dismal wet day--we remained stationary, as many of
our party were still foot-sore, and all were glad of a rest. Some went
out shooting, but returned with only a few parrots and cockatoos, which
they roasted, and pronounced nice eating. Towards evening, a party of
four, returning from the diggings, encamped at a little distance from
us. Some of our loiterers made their acquaintance. They had passed the
previous night in the Black Forest, having wandered out of their way.
To add to their misfortunes, they had been attacked by three well-armed
bushrangers, whom they had compelled to desist from their attempt, not,
however, before two of the poor men had been wounded, one rather
severely. Hardly had they recovered this shock, than they were
horrified by the sudden discovery in a sequestered spot of some human
bones, strewn upon the ground beside a broken-down cart. Whether
accident or design had brought these unfortunates to an untimely end,
none know; but this ominous appearance seemed to have terrified
them even more than the bushrangers themselves. These accounts sobered
our party not a little, and it was deemed advisable to double the watch
that night.




Chapter V.



CAMPING UP--BLACK FOREST TO EAGLE HAWK GULLY


SUNDAY, 12.--A lovely summer morning, which raised our spirits to
something like their usual tone, with the exception of our gallant(?)
captain, who resigned his post, declaring it his intention to return to
Melbourne with the four returning diggers. Poor fellow! their awful
account of the Black Forest had been too much for his courage. Gregory
was elected in his place, and wishing him a pleasant trip home, our
journey was resumed as usual, and we entered the forest. Here the trees
grow very closely together; in some places they are so thickly
set that the rear-guard of the escort cannot see the advance-guard in
the march. There is a slight undergrowth of scrub. We saw some of the
choicest of the ERICA tribe in full bloom, like a beautiful crimson
waxen bell-blossom, and once whilst walking (which I frequently did to
relieve the monotony of being perched on the dray by myself) I saw a
fine specimen of the ORELUDIAE at the foot of a tree growing from the
wood; it was something like a yellow sweet-pea, but really too
beautiful to describe. The barks of the trees, and also the ground,
have a black, charred appearance (hence the name of the forest); this
is said to have been caused by its having once been on fire. Many of
the ambuscades of the noted Douglas were passed, and the scenes of some
most fearful murders pointed out. We only halted once--so anxious were
we to leave behind us this dreaded spot--and at sunset reached the
borders of the Five Mile Creek.

MONDAY, 13.--Another fine day. Crossed the Five Mile Creek by means of
a rickety sort of bridge. There are two inns here, with plenty of
accommodation for man and beast. We patronized neither, but made the
best of our way towards Kyneton. Our road lay through a densely
wooded country till we arrived at Jacomb's Station; this we left, and
turning to the right, soon reached Kyneton, which lies on the river
Campaspe.

Carlshrue lies to the right, about three miles distant, on rather low
land; this is the chief station of the Government escort; the barrack
accommodation is first-rate, with stabling and paddocks for the horses,
&c.

Kyneton is about sixty-one miles from Melbourne. There are two large
inns, with ample accommodation for four hundred people between them,
several stores, with almost every needful article. A neat little
church, capable of holding nearly three hundred persons, with a school
and parsonage. There is a resident magistrate and constabulary, with a
police-court and gaol in progress of erection. The township is rather
straggling, but what houses there are have a very picturesque
appearance. The only draw-back to this little town is the badness of
the streets. Although it is rather on an elevated spot, the streets and
roads, from the loamy nature of the sod, are a perfect quagmire, even
abominable in summer time. The charges here are high, but not
extortionate, as, besides the two inns alluded to, there are several
coffee-shops and lodging-houses; so competition has its effect even in
the bush.

The Campaspe is a large river, and is crossed by a substantial timber
bridge.

We still adhered to our original plan of camping out; a few necessaries
were purchased in the town, and after continuing our journey to a
little distance from it, we halted for the night.

TUESDAY 14.--This morning commenced with a colonial shower, which gave
us all a good drenching. Started about eight o'clock; returned to
Kyneton; crossed the bridge, and passed several farm-houses. The
country here is very changeable, sometimes flat and boggy, at others,
very hilly and stony. We were obliged to ford several small creeks,
evidently tributaries to the Campaspe, and at about ten miles from
Kyneton, entered the Coliban range, which is thickly wooded. The river
itself is about fourteen miles from Kyneton. Here we camped, in the
pouring rain. Some of our party walked to the town of Malmsbury, about
a mile and a half from our camping place. The town consisted of
about three tents, and an inn dignified by the appellation of the
"Malmsbury Hotel". It is a two-storied, weather-board, and pale house,
painted blue, with a lamp before it of many colours, large enough for
half-a-dozen people to dine in. It (the inn, not the lamp,) is capable
of accommodating two hundred people, independent of which there is a
large tent, similar to the booths at a fair, about 100 feet long by 30
wide, for the convenience of those who prefer sleeping under cover when
the house is full. Being hungry with their walk, our comrades dined
here, for which they paid 3s. 6d. a-piece; ale was 1s. 6d. a glass;
brandy 2s. per half glass, or "nobbler;" cheese, 4s. 6d. a pound;
bread, 5s. the four-pound loaf; wine, 25s. a bottle. By the time they
returned, we had struck our tents, intending to cross a muddy-banked
creek that lay in our road that evening, as we were told that the
waters might be too swollen to do it next day. The water reached above
their waists, and as my usual post was very insecure, I was obliged to
be carried over on their shoulders, which did not prevent my feet from
being thoroughly soaked before reaching the other side, where we
remained all night.

WEDNESDAY, 15.--Rainy day again, so much so, that we thought it
advisable not to shift our quarters. In the afternoon, three returning
diggers pitched their tents not far from ours. They were rather
sociable, and gave us a good account of the diggings. They had
themselves been very fortunate. On the same day that we had been idly
resting on the borders of the Black Forest, they had succeeded in
taking twenty-three pounds weight out of their claim, and two days
after, two hundred and six ounces more, making, in all, gold to the
value (in England) of about eighteen hundred pounds. They were
returning to Melbourne for a spree, (which means to fling their gains
away as quickly as possible,) and then as soon as the dry season was
regularly set in, they meant to return to Bendigo for another spell at
work. On representing to them the folly of not making better use of
their hard-earned wages, the answer invariably was, "Plenty more to be
got where this came from," an apt illustration of the proverb, "light
come, light go." Two of these diggers had with them their licences for
the current month, which they offered to sell for ten shillings each;
two of our company purchased them. This, although a common
proceeding, was quite illegal, and, of course, the two purchasers had
to assume for the rest of the month the names of the parties to whom
the licences had been issued. As evening approached, our new
acquaintances became very sociable, and amused us with their account of
the diggings; and the subject of licensing being naturally discussed,
led to our being initiated into the various means of evading it, and
the penalties incurred thereby. One story they related amused us at the
time, and as it is true I will repeat it here, though I fancy the lack
of oral communication will subtract from it what little interest it did
possess.

Before I commence, I must give my readers some little insight into the
nature of the licence tax itself. The licence, (for which thirty
shillings, or half an ounce of gold, is paid per month) is in the
following form:


VICTORIA GOLD LICENCE.
No. 1710, Sept. 3, 1852.

The Bearer, Henry Clements, having paid to me the Sum of One Pound, Ten
Shillings, on account of the Territorial Revenue, I hereby
Licence him to dig, search for, and remove Gold on and from any such
Crown Land within the Upper Lodden District, as I shall assign to him
for that purpose during the month of September, 1852, not within
half-a-mile of any Head station.

This Licence is not transferable, and to be produced whenever demanded
by me or any other person acting under the Authority of the Government,
and to be returned when another Licence is issued.

(SIGNED) B. BAXTER, Commissioner.


At the back of the Licence are the following rules:


REGULATIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY THE PERSONS DIGGING FOR GOLD, OR
OTHERWISE EMPLOYED AT THE GOLD FIELDS.

1. Every Licensed Person must always have his Licence with him, ready
to be produced whenever demanded by a Commissioner, or Person acting
under his instructions, otherwise he is liable to be proceeded against
as an Unlicensed person.

2. Every Person digging for Gold, or occupying Land, without a
Licence, is liable by Law to be fined, for the first offence, not
exceeding 5 pounds; for a second offence, not exceeding 15 pounds; and for
a subsequent offence, not exceeding 30 pounds.

3. Digging for Gold is not allowed within Ten feet of any Public Road,
nor are the Roads to be undermined.

4. Tents or buildings are not to be erected within Twenty feet of each
other, or within Twenty feet of any Creek.

5. It is enjoined that all Persons at the Gold Fields maintain and
assist in maintaining a due and proper observance of Sundays.

* * * * *

So great is the crowd around the Commissioner's tent at the beginning
of the month, that it is a matter of difficulty to procure it, and
consequently the inspectors rarely begin their rounds before the 10th,
when (as they generally vary the fine according to the date at which
the delinquency is discovered), a non-licensed digger would have the
pleasure of accompanying a crowd of similar offenders to the
Commissioners, sometimes four or five miles from his working-place, pay
a fine of about 3 pounds, and take out a licence. After the 20th of the
month, the fine inflicted is generally from 5 pounds to 10 pounds and a
licence, which is rather a dear price to pay for a few days' permission to
dig, as a licence, although granted on the 30th of one month, would be
unavailable for the next. The inspectors are generally strong-built,
rough-looking customers, they dress like the generality of the diggers,
and are only known by their carrying a gun in lieu of a pick or shovel.
Delinquents unable to pay the fine, have the pleasure of working it out
on the roads.

Now for my story--such as it is.

Mike and Robert were two as good mates as any at the Mount Alexander
diggings. They had had a good spell of hard work, and, as is usually
the way, returned to Melbourne for a holiday at Christmas-time; and
then it was that the bright eyes of Susan Hinton first sowed discord
between them. Mike was the successful wooer, and the old man gave his
consent; for Mike, with one exception, had contrived to make himself a
favourite with both father and daughter. The exception was this. Old
Hinton was a strict disciplinarian--one of what is called the
"good old school"--he hated radicals, revolutionists, and reformers,
or any opposition to Church or State. Mike, on the contrary, loved
nothing better than to hold forth against the powers that be; and it
was his greatest boast that Government had never pocketed a farthing
from him in the way of a licence. This, in the old man's eyes, was his
solitary fault, and when Mike declared his intention of taking another
trip to the "lottery fields" before taking a ticket in the even greater
lottery of marriage, he solemnly declared that no daughter of his
should ever marry a man who had been openly convicted of in any way
evading the licence fee.

This declaration from any other man, who had already promised his
daughter in marriage, would not have had much weight; but Mike knew the
stern, strict character of Hinton, and respected this determination
accordingly. The day of their departure arrived, and with a tearful
injunction to bear in mind her father's wishes, Susan bade her lover
farewell, and Robert and he proceeded on their journey. Full of his own
happiness, Mike had never suspected his comrade's love for
Susan, and little dreamt he of the hatred against himself to which it
had given birth--hatred the more to be dreaded since it was concealed
under a most friendly exterior.

For the first month Mike behaved to the very letter of the law, and
having for the sum of one pound ten shillings purchased his legal right to
dig for gold, felt himself a most exemplary character. Success again
crowned their efforts, and a speedy return to Melbourne was contemplated.
In the ardour of this exciting work another month commenced, and Mike at
first forgot and then neglected to renew his licence. "The inspector
rarely came his rounds before the 14th; the neighbourhood was
considered deserted--fairly 'worked out;' he'd never come round
there." Thus argued Mike, and his friend cordially agreed with him.
"Lose a day's work standing outside the Commissioner's tent broiling in
a crowd, when two days would finish the job? Not he, indeed! Mike might
please himself, but HE shouldn't get a licence;" and this determination
on the part of his "mate" settled the matter.

In one respect Mike's self-security was not unfounded; the gully
in which their tent was now pitched was nearly deserted. Some while
previous there had been a great rush to the place, so great that it was
almost excavated; then the rush took a different direction, and few now
cared to work on the two or three spots that had been left untouched.
Like many other localities considered "worked out," as much remained in
the ground as had been taken from it, and as each day added to their
store, Mike's hilarity increased.

It was now the 10th of the month; their hole had been fairly
"bottomed," a nice little nest of nuggets discovered, their gains
divided, and the gold sent down to the escort-office for transit to
Melbourne. A few buckets-full of good washing-stuff was all that was
left undone.

"To-day will finish that," thought Mike, and to it he set with hearty
good-will, to the intense satisfaction of his comrade, who sat watching
him at a little distance. Suddenly Mike felt a heavy hand upon his
shoulder: he looked up, and saw before him--the inspector. He had
already with him a large body of defaulters, and Mike little doubted
but that he must be added to their number. Old Hinton's determined
speech, Susan's parting words and tears, flashed across his
mind.

"You've lost your bonnie bride," muttered Robert, loud enough to reach
his rival's ears.

Mike glanced at him, and the look of triumph he saw there roused every
spark of energy within him, and it was in a tone of wellf-assumed
composure that he replied to the inspector, "My licence is in my
pocket, and my coat is below there;" and without a moment's hesitation
sprang into his hole to fetch it. Some minutes elapsed. The inspector
waxed impatient. A suspicion of the truth flashed across Robert's mind,
and he too descended the hole. THERE was the coat and the licence of
the past month in the pocket; but the owner had gone, vanished, and an
excavation on one side which led into the next hole and thence into a
complete labyrinth underground, plainly pointed out the method of
escape. Seeing no use in ferreting the delinquent out of so dangerous a
place, the inspector sulkily withdrew, though not without venting some
of his ill-humour upon Robert, at whose representations, made to him
the day previous, he had come so far out of his road.

But let us return to Mike. By a happy thought, he had suddenly
remembered that whilst working some days before in the hole, his pick
had let in daylight on one side, and the desperate hope presented
itself to his mind that he might make a passage into the next pit,
which he knew led into others, and thus escape. His success was beyond
his expectation; and he regained the open air at a sufficient distance
from his late quarters to escape observation. Once able to reflect
calmly upon the event of the morning, it required little discrimination
to fix upon Robert his real share in it. And now there was no time to
lose in returning to Melbourne, and prevent by a speedy marriage any
further attempt to set his intended father-in-law against him. The
roads were dry, for it was the sultry month of February; and two days
saw him beside his lady-love.

Although railroads are as yet unknown in Australia, everything goes on
at railroad speed; and a marriage concocted one day is frequently
solemnized the next. His eagerness, therefore, was no way remarkable.
No time was lost; and when, three days after Mike's return, Robert
(with his head full of plots and machinations) presented himself
at old Hinton's door, he found them all at a well-spread wedding
breakfast, round which were gathered a merry party, listening with a
digger's interest to the way in which the happy bridegroom had evaded
the inspector. Mike had wisely kept the story till Susan was his wife.

THURSDAY 16.--With great delight we hailed the prognostications of a
fine day, and, after having eaten a hearty breakfast on the strength of
it, we recommenced our travels, and crossed the Coliban Bridge. The
Coliban is a fine river running through a beautiful valley bounded with
green trees; the bridge is a timber one, out of repair, and dangerous.
A township called Malmsbury has been laid out here in small allotments
with the expectation of a future city; but as yet not a house has been
erected, with the exception of the "hotel" before mentioned, putting
one in mind of the American Eden in "Martin Chuzzlewit." A mile beyond
the Coliban are the washing huts of John Orr's Station, and about three
miles to the left is his residence; the house is stone, with verandahs,
the garden and vineyards are prettily laid out.

After passing the bridge, we took the right-hand road, which led
us through a low country, and across two or three tributary creeks; we
then reached the neighbourhood of Saw-pit Gully, so called from the
number of saw-pits there, which formerly gave employment to numerous
sawyers, whose occupation--it is almost needless to state--is now
deserted. It is surrounded with fine large timber; there are several
coffee-shops, a blacksmith's and wheelright's, and a neat little
weather-board inn.

At this part, our German friends bade us farewell, to follow out their
original plan of going to Forest Creek; they had persuaded four others
to accompany them, so our number was reduced to fifteen, myself
included. The scenery now became very beautiful, diversified with hill
and dale, well wooded, with here and there a small creek, more
agreeable to look at than to cross, as there were either no bridges or
broken-down ones. The loveliness of the weather seemed to impart energy
even to our horses; and we did not pitch our tents till we had
travelled full sixteen miles. We were now close beside Mount Alexander,
which is nearly covered with timber, chiefly white gum, wattle
and stringy bark.

FRIDAY, 17.--A lovely morning; we proceeded in excellent spirits,
passing some beautiful scenery, though rather monotonous. During the
first few miles, we went across many little creeks, in the
neighbourhood of which were indications that the diggers had been at
work. These symptoms we hailed with intense delight. Gregory told us
the history of a hole in this neighbourhood, out of which five people
cleared 13,000 pounds worth of gold each in about a few hours. In lieu of
sinking a shaft, they commenced in a gully (colonial for valley), and
drove a hole on an inclined plane up the side of the hill or rise.
However wet the season, they could never be inconvenienced, as the very
inclination would naturally drain the hole. Such a precaution was not
needed, as the whole party were perfectly satisfied with the success
they had had without toiling for more. The country between here and the
"Porcupine Inn" is exceedingly beautiful--not unlike many parts in the
lowlands of Wales. About eight miles on the road we pass Barker's
Creek, which runs through a beautiful vale.

We camped this evening about four or five miles from Bendigo,
and some miles from the "Porcupine Inn," which we left behind us. The
"Porcupine" is a newly built inn on an old spot, for I believe there
was an inn in existence there before the diggings were ever heard or
thought of. The accommodation appears on rather a small scale. Near it
is a portion of the station of the Messrs. Gibson, through which the
public road runs; some parts are fine, others wooded and swampy.

SATURDAY, 18.--Fine day; we now approached Bendigo. The timber here is
very large. Here we first beheld the majestic iron bark, EUCALYPTI, the
trunks of which are fluted with the exquisite regularity of a Doric
column; they are in truth the noblest ornaments of these mighty
forests. A few miles further, and the diggings themselves burst upon
our view. Never shall I forget that scene, it well repaid a journey
even of sixteen thousand miles. The trees had been all cut down; it
looked like a sandy plain, or one vast unbroken succession of countless
gravel pits--the earth was everywhere turned up--men's heads
in every direction were popping up and down from their holes. Well
might an Australian writer, in speaking of Bendigo, term it "The
Carthage of the Tyre of Forest Creek." The rattle of the cradle, as it
swayed to and fro, the sounds of the pick and shovel, the busy hum of
so many thousands, the innumerable tents, the stores with large flags
hoisted above them, flags of every shape, colour, and nation, from the
lion and unicorn of England to the Russian eagle, the strange yet
picturesque costume of the diggers themselves, all contributed to
render the scene novel in the extreme.

We hurried through this exciting locality as quickly as possible; and,
after five miles travelling, reached the Eagle Hawk Gully, where we
pitched our tents, supped, and retired to rest--though, for myself at
least, not to sleep. The excitement of the day was sufficient cure for
drowsiness. Before proceeding with an account of our doings at the
Eagle Hawk, I will give a slight sketch of the character and
peculiarities of the diggings themselves, which are of course not
confined to one spot, but are the characteristics that usually
exist in any auriferous regions, where the diggers are at work. I will
leave myself, therefore, safely ensconced beneath a tent at the Eagle
Hawk, and take a slight and rapid survey of the principal diggings in
the neighbourhood from Saw-pit Gully to Sydney Flat.




Chapter VI.



THE DIGGINGS


Of the history of the discovery of gold in Australia I believe few are
ignorant; it is therefore necessary that my recapitulation of it should
be as brief as possible. The first supposed discovery took place some
sixty years ago, at Port Jackson. A convict made known to Governor
Phillip the existence of an auriferous region near Sydney, and on the
locality being examined, particles of real gold-dust were found. Every
one was astonished, and several other spots were tried without success.
Suspicion was now excited, and the affair underwent a thorough
examination, which elicited the following facts. The convict, in
the hope of obtaining his pardon as a reward, had filed a guinea and
some brass buttons, which, judiciously mixed, made a tolerable pile of
gold-dust, and this he carefully distributed over a small tract of
sandy land. In lieu of the expected freedom, his ingenuity was rewarded
with close confinement and other punishments. Thus ended the first idea
of a gold-field in those colonies.

In 1841 the Rev. W. B. Clarke expressed his belief in the existence of
gold in the valley of the Macquarie, and this opinion was greatly
confirmed by the observations of European geologists on the Uralian
Mountains. In 1849 an indisputable testimony was added to these
opinions by a Mr. Smith, who was then engaged in some iron works, near
Berrima, and who brought a splendid specimen of gold in quartz to the
Colonial Secretary. Sir C. A. Fitzroy evinced little sympathy with the
discovery, and in a despatch to Lord Grey upon the subject, expressed
his opinion that "any investigation that the Government might institute
with the view of ascertaining whether gold did in reality exist to any
extent or value in that part of the colony where it was supposed
from its geological formation that metal would be found, would only
tend to agitate the public mind, &c."

Suddenly, in 1851, at the time that the approaching opening of the
Crystal Palace was the principal subject of attention in England, the
colonies of Australia were in a state of far greater excitement, as the
news spread like wild-fire, far and wide, that gold was really there.
To Edward Hammond Hargreaves be given the honour of this discovery.
This gentleman was an old Australian settler, just returned from a trip
to California, where he had been struck by the similarity of the
geological formation of the mountain ranges in his adopted country to
that of the Sacramento district. On his return, he immediately searched
for the precious metal; Ophir, the Turon, and Bathurst well repaid his
labour. Thus commenced the gold diggings of New South Wales.

The good people of Victoria were rather jealous of the importance given
by these events to the other colony. Committees were formed, and
rewards were offered for the discovery of a gold-field in Victoria. The
announcement of the Clunes Diggings in July, 1851, was the
result; they were situated on a tributary of the Loddon. On September 8,
those of Ballarat, and on the 10th those of Mount Alexander
completely satisfied the most sceptical as to the vast mineral wealth
of the colony. Bendigo soon was heard of; and gully after gully
successively attracted the attention of the public by the display of
their golden treasures.

The names given to these gullies open a curious field of speculation.
Many have a sort of digger's tradition respecting their first
discovery. The riches of Peg Leg Gully were brought to light through
the surfacing of three men with wooden legs, who were unable to sink a
hole in the regular way. Golden Gully was discovered by a man who,
whilst lounging on the ground and idly pulling up the roots of grass
within his reach, found beneath one a nest of golden nuggets. Eagle
Hawk derives its name from the number of eagle-hawks seen in the gully
before the sounds of the pick and shovel drove them away. Murderer's
Flat and Choke'em Gully tell their own tale. The Irish clan together in
Tipperary Gully. A party of South Australians gave the name of their
chief town to Adelaide Gully. The Iron Bark is so called from
the magnificent trees which abound there. Long, Piccaninny, and Dusty
Gully need no explanation. The Jim Crow ranges are appropriately so
called, for it is only by keeping up a sort of Jim Crow dancing
movement that one can travel about there; it is the roughest piece of
country at the diggings. White Horse Gully obtained its name from a
white horse whose hoofs, whilst the animal in a rage was plunging here
and there, flung up the surface ground and disclosed the treasures
beneath. In this gully was found the famous "John Bull Nugget," lately
exhibited in London. The party to whom it belonged consisted of three
poor sailors; the one who actually discovered it had only been a
fortnight at the diggings. The nugget weighed forty-five pounds, and
was only a few inches beneath the surface. It was sold for 5,000 pounds; a
good morning's work that!

Let us take a stroll round Forest Creek--what a novel scene!--
thousands of human beings engaged in digging, wheeling, carrying, and
washing, intermingled with no little grumbling, scolding and swearing.
We approach first the old Post-office Square; next our eye
glances down Adelaide Gully, and over the Montgomery and White Hills,
all pretty well dug up; now we pass the Private Escort Station, and
Little Bendigo. At the junction of Forest, Barker, and Campbell Creeks
we find the Commissioners' quarters--this is nearly five miles from
our starting point. We must now return to Adelaide Gully, and keep
alongside Adelaide Creek, till we come to a high range of rocks, which
we cross, and then find ourselves near the head-waters of Fryer's
Creek. Following that stream towards the Loddon, we pass the
interesting neighbourhood of Golden Gully, Moonlight Flat, Windlass and
Red Hill; this latter which covers about two acres of ground is so
called from the colour of the soil, it was the first found, and is
still considered as the richest auriferous spot near Mount Alexander.
In the wet season, it was reckoned that on Moonlight Flat one man was
daily buried alive from the earth falling into his hole. Proceeding
north-east in the direction of Campbell's Creek, we again reach the
Commissioners' tent.

The principal gullies about Bendigo are Sailors's, Napoleon,
Pennyweight, Peg Leg, Growler's, White Horse, Eagle Hawk, Californian,
American, Derwent, Long, Picaninny, Iron Bark, Black Man's, Poor Man's,
Dusty, Jim Crow, Spring, and Golden--also Sydney Flat, and Specimen
Hill--Haverton Gully, and the Sheep-wash. Most of these places are
well-ransacked and tunnelled, but thorough good wages may always be
procured by tin dish washing in deserted holes, or surface washing.

It is not only the diggers, however, who make money at the Gold Fields.
Carters, carpenters, storemen, wheelwrights, butchers, shoemakers, &c.,
usually in the long run make a fortune quicker than the diggers
themselves, and certainly with less hard work or risk of life. They can
always get from one to two pounds a day without rations, whereas they may
dig for weeks and get nothing. Living is not more expensive than in
Melbourne: meat is generally from 4d. to 6d. a pound, flour about 1s. 6d
a pound, (this is the most expensive article in house-keeping
there,) butter must be dispensed with, as that is seldom less than
4s. a pound, and only successful diggers can indulge in such articles as
cheese, pickles, ham, sardines, pickled salmon, or spirits, as
all these things, though easily procured if you have gold to throw
away, are expensive, the last-named article (diluted with water or
something less innoxious) is only to be obtained for 30s. a bottle.

The stores, which are distinguished by a flag, are numerous and well
stocked. A new style of lodging and boarding house is in great vogue.
It is a tent fitted up with stringy bark couches, ranged down each side
the tent, leaving a narrow passage up the middle. The lodgers are
supplied with mutton, damper, and tea, three times a day, for the
charge of 5s. a meal, and 5s. for the bed; this is by the week, a
casual guest must pay double, and as 18 inches is on an average
considered ample width to sleep in, a tent 24 feet long will bring in a
good return to the owner.

The stores at the diggings are large tents, generally square or oblong,
and everything required by a digger can be obtained for money, from
sugar-candy to potted anchovies; from East India pickles to Bass's pale
ale; from ankle jack boots to a pair of stays; from a baby's cap to a
cradle; and every apparatus for mining, from a pick to a needle. But
the confusion--the din--the medley--what a scene for a shop
walker! Here lies a pair of herrings dripping into a bag of sugar, or a
box of raisins; there a gay-looking bundle of ribbons beneath two
tumblers, and a half-finished bottle of ale. Cheese and butter, bread
and yellow soap, pork and currants, saddles and frocks, wide-awakes and
blue serge shirts, green veils and shovels, baby linen and tallow
candles, are all heaped indiscriminately together; added to which,
there are children bawling, men swearing, store-keeper sulky, and last,
not LEAST, women's tongues going nineteen to the dozen.

Most of the store-keepers are purchasers of gold either for cash or in
exchange for goods, and many are the tricks from which unsuspecting
diggers suffer. One great and outrageous trick is to weigh the parcels
separately, or divide the whole, on the excuse that the weight would be
too much for the scales; and then, on adding up the grains and
pennyweights, the sellers often lose at least half an ounce. On one
occasion, out of seven pounds weight, a party once lost an ounce and
three quarters in this manner. There is also the old method of false
beams--one in favour of the purchaser--and here, unless the
seller weighs in both pans, he loses considerably. Another mode of
cheating is to have glass pans resting on a piece of green baize; under
this baize, and beneath the pan which holds the weights, is a wetted
sponge, which causes that pan to adhere to the baize, and consequently
it requires more gold to make it level; this, coupled with the false
reckoning, is ruinous to the digger. In town, the Jews have a system of
robbing a great deal from sellers before they purchase the gold-dust
(for in these instances it must be DUST): it is thrown into a zinc pan
with slightly raised sides, which are well rubbed over with grease; and
under the plea of a careful examination, the purchaser shakes and rubs
the dust, and a considerable quantity adheres to the sides. A commoner
practice still is for examiners of gold-dust to cultivate long
finger-nails, and, in drawing the fingers about it, gather some up.

Sly grog selling is the bane of the diggings. Many--perhaps
nine-tenths--of the diggers are honest industrious men, desirous of
getting a little there as a stepping-stone to independence elsewhere;
but the other tenth is composed of outcasts and transports--the refuse
of Van Diemen's Land--men of the most depraved and abandoned
characters, who have sought and gained the lowest abyss of crime, and
who would a short time ago have expiated their crimes on a scaffold.
They generally work or rob for a space, and when well stocked with
gold, retire to Melbourne for a month or so, living in drunkenness and
debauchery. If, however, their holiday is spent at the diggings, the
sly grog-shop is the last scene of their boisterous career. Spirit
selling is strictly prohibited; and although Government will license a
respectable public-house on the ROAD, it is resolutely refused ON the
diggings. The result has been the opposite of that which it was
intended to produce. There is more drinking and rioting at the diggings
than elsewhere, the privacy and risk gives the obtaining it an
excitement which the diggers enjoy as much as the spirit itself; and
wherever grog is sold on the sly, it will sooner or later be the scene
of a riot, or perhaps murder. Intemperance is succeeded by quarrelling
and fighting, the neighbouring tents report to the police, and the
offenders are lodged in the lock-up; whilst the grog-tent, spirits,
wine, &c., are seized and taken to the Commissioners. Some of
the stores, however, manage to evade the law rather cleverly--as
spirits are not SOLD, "my friend" pays a shilling more for his fig of
tobacco, and his wife an extra sixpence for her suet; and they smile at
the store-man, who in return smiles knowingly at them, and then glasses
are brought out, and a bottle produced, which sends forth NOT a
fragrant perfume on the sultry air.

It is no joke to get ill at the diggings; doctors make you pay for it.
Their fees are--for a consultation, at their own tent, ten shillings;
for a visit out, from one to ten pounds, according to time and
distance. Many are regular quacks, and these seem to flourish best. The
principal illnesses are weakness of sight, from the hot winds and sandy
soil, and dysentery, which is often caused by the badly-cooked food,
bad water, and want of vegetables.

The interior of the canvas habitation of the digger is desolate enough;
a box on a block of wood forms a table, and this is the only furniture;
many dispense with that. The bedding, which is laid on the ground,
serves to sit upon. Diogenes in his tub would not have looked more
comfortless than any one else. Tin plates and pannicans, the
same as are used for camping up, compose the breakfast, dinner, and tea
service, which meals usually consist of the same dishes--mutton,
damper, and tea.

In some tents the soft influence of our sex is pleasingly apparent: the
tins are as bright as silver, there are sheets as well as blankets on
the beds, and perhaps a clean counterpane, with the addition of a dry
sack or piece of carpet on the ground; whilst a pet cockatoo, chained
to a perch, makes noise enough to keep the "missus" from feeling lonely
when the good man is at work. Sometimes a wife is at first rather a
nuisance; women get scared and frightened, then cross, and commence a
"blow up" with their husbands; but all their railing generally ends in
their quietly settling down to this rough and primitive style of
living, if not without a murmur, at least to all appearance with the
determination to laugh and bear it. And although rough in their
manners, and not over select in their address, the digger seldom
wilfully injures a woman; in fact, a regular Vandemonian will, in his
way, play the gallant with as great a zest as a fashionable about town
--at any rate, with more sincerity of heart.

Sunday is kept at the diggings in a very orderly manner; and
among the actual diggers themselves, the day of rest is taken in a
VERBATIM sense. It is not unusual to have an established clergyman
holding forth near the Commissioners' tent and almost within hearing
will be a tub orator expounding the origin of evil, whilst a "mill" (a
fight with fisticuffs) or a dog fight fills up the background.

But night at the diggings is the characteristic time: murder here--
murder there--revolvers cracking--blunderbusses bombing--rifles
going off--balls whistling--one man groaning with a broken leg--
another shouting because he couldn't find the way to his hole, and a
third equally vociferous because he has tumbled into one--this man
swearing--an other praying--a party of bacchanals chanting various
ditties to different time and tune, or rather minus both. Here is one
man grumbling because he has brought his wife with him, another ditto
because he has left his behind, or sold her for an ounce of gold or a
bottle of rum. Donnybrook Fair is not to be compared to an evening at
Bendigo.

Success at the diggings is like drawing lottery tickets--the
blanks far outnumber the prizes; still, with good health, strength, and
above all perseverance, it is strange if a digger does not in the end
reap a reward for his labour. Meanwhile, he must endure almost
incredible hardships. In the rainy season, he must not murmur if
compelled to work up to his knees in water, and sleep on the wet
ground, without a fire, in the pouring rain, and perhaps no shelter
above him more waterproof than a blanket or a gum tree; and this not
for once only, but day after day, night after night. In the summer, he
must work hard under a burning sun, tortured by the mosquito and the
little stinging March flies, or feel his eyes smart and his throat grow
dry and parched, as the hot winds, laden with dust, pass over him. How
grateful now would be a draught from some cold sparkling streamlet;
but, instead, with what sort of water must he quench his thirst? Much
the same, gentle reader, as that which runs down the sides of a dirty
road on a rainy day, and for this a shilling a bucket must be paid.
Hardships such as these are often the daily routine of a digger's life;
yet, strange to say, far from depressing the spirits or weakening the
frame, they appear in most cases to give strength and energy to
both. This is principally owing to the climate, which even in the wet
season is mild and salubrious.

Perhaps nothing will speak better for the general order that prevails
at the diggings, than the small amount of physical force maintained
there by Government to keep some thousands of persons of all ages,
classes, characters, religions and countries in good humour with the
laws and with one another. The military force numbers 130, officers and
men; the police about 300.

The Government escort is under the control of Mr. Wright, Chief
Commissioner; it consists of about forty foot and sixty mounted police,
with the usual complement of inspectors and sergeants; their uniform is
blue--with white facings, their head-quarters are by the
Commissioners' tent, Forest Creek.

The private escort uniform is a plain blue frock coat and trowsers. It
is under the superintendence of Mr. Wilkinson; the head-quarters are at
Montgomery Hill, Forest Creek. Both these escorts charge one per cent
for conveying gold.

For the Victoria diggings, there is a Chief Commissioner, one
Acting Resident Commissioner; one Assistant Commissioner at Ballarat,
one at Fryer's Creek, five at Forest Creek, and six at Bendigo.

Provision is made by Government for the support, at the mines, of two
clergymen of each of the four State paid churches of England, Scotland,
Rome, and Wesleyan, at a salary of 300 pounds a year.




Chapter VII.



EAGLE HAWK GULLY


Before commencing an account of our operations at the Eagle Hawk, it
will be necessary to write a few words in description of our
gold-digging party there; their Christian names will be sufficient
distinction, and will leave their incognito undisturbed.

This party, as I have said before, consisted of five gentlemen,
including my brother. Of the latter I shall only say that he was young
and energetic, more accustomed to use his brains than his fingers, yet
with a robust frame, and muscles well strengthened by the various
exercises of boating, cricketing, &c., with which our embryo
collegians attempt to prepare themselves for keeping their "terms."

Frank ------ (who, from being a married man, was looked up to as the head
of our rather juvenile party) was of a quiet and sedate disposition,
rather given to melancholy, for which in truth he had cause. His
marriage had taken place without the sanction--or rather in defiance of
the wishes--of his parents, for his wife was portionless, and in a
station a few grades, as they considered, below his own; moreover,
Frank himself was not of age. Private income, independent of his
parents, he had none. A situation as clerk in a merchant's office was
his only resource, and during three years he had eked out his salary to
support a delicate wife--whose ill health was a neverfailing source of
anxiety and expense--two infants, and himself. An unexpected legacy of
500 pounds from a distant relative at last seemed to open a brighter
prospect before them; and leaving his wife and children with their
relatives, he quitted England to seek in a distant land a better home than
all his exertions could procure for them in their own country. I never
felt surprised or offended at his silent and preoccupied manner,
accompanied at times by great depression of spirits, for it was an
awful responsibility for one so young, brought up as he had been in the
greatest luxury, as the eldest son of a wealthy merchant, to have not
only himself but others nearest and dearest to maintain by his own
exertions.

William -----, a tall, slight, and rather delicate looking man, is the
next of our party whom I shall mention. His youth had been passed at
Christ's Hospital. This he quitted with the firm conviction (in which
all his friends of course participated) that he had been greatly
wronged by not having been elected a Grecian; and a rich uncle, incited
by the beforementioned piece of injustice, took him under his care, and
promised to settle him in the world as soon as a short apprenticeship
to business had been gone through. A sudden illness put a stop to all
these schemes. The physicians recommended change of air, a warmer
climate, a trip to Australia. William had relatives residing in
Melbourne, so the journey was quickly decided upon, a cabin taken; and
the invalid rapidly recovering beneath the exhilarating effects of the
sea-breezes. How refreshing are they to the sick! how caressingly does
the soft sea-air fan the wan cheeks of those exhausted with a life
passed amidst the brick walls and crowded, noisy streets of a city;
and William, who at first would have laughed at so ridiculous a
supposition, ere the four months' voyage was terminated, had gained
strength and spirits sufficient to make him determine to undertake a
trip to the diggings.

He was a merry light-hearted fellow, fonder of a joke than hard work,
yet ever keeping a sharp eye to the "main chance," as the following
anecdote will prove.

One day during our stay in Melbourne he came to me, and said, laughing:

"Well! I've got rid of one of the bad HABITS I had on board the ----."

"Which?" was my reply.

"That old frock-coat I used to wear in the cold weather whilst we
rounded the Cape. A fellow down at Liardet's admired the cut, asked me
to sell it. I charged him four guineas, and walked into town in my
shirt-sleeves; soon colonized, eh?"

Richard ------ was a gay young fellow of twenty, the only son of a rich
member of the stock Exchange. In a fit of spleen, because the
parental regulations required him always to be at home by midnight, he
shipped himself off to Australia, trusting that so energetic a step
"would bring the govenor to his senses." He was music-mad, and appeared
to know every opera by heart, and wearied us out of all patience with
his everlasting humming of "Ciascun lo dice" "Non piu mesta," &c.

Octavius ------ was the eighth son of a poor professional man, who, after
giving him a good general education, sent him with a small capital to
try his fortune in the colonies. For this he was in every way well
fitted, being possessed of a strong constitution, good common sense,
and simple inexpensive habits; he was only nineteen, and the youngest
of the male portion of our party.

The day after our arrival at the diggings, being Sunday, we passed in
making ourselves comfortable, and devising our future plans. We
determined to move from our present quarters, and pitch our tents
higher up the gully, near Montgomery's store. This we accomplished the
first thing on Monday morning and at about a hundred yards from us our
four shipmates also fixed themselves, which added both to our
comfort and security.

A few words for their introduction.

One of them was a Scotchman, who wished to make enough capital at the
mines to invest in a sheep-run; and as his countrymen are proverbially
fortunate in the colonies, I think it possible he may some time hence
be an Australian MILLIONAIRE. Another of these was an architect, who
was driven, as it were, to the diggings, because his profession, from
the scarcity of labour, was at the time almost useless in Melbourne.
The third was, or rather had been, a house-painter and decorator, who
unfortunately possessed a tolerably fine voice, which led him gradually
to abandon a good business to perform at concerts. Too late he found
that he had dropped the substance for the shadow; emigration seemed his
only resource; so leaving a wife and large family behind, he brought
his mortified vanity and ruined fortunes to begin the world anew with
in Australia. He was the only one whose means prevented him from taking
a share in our venture; but to avoid confusion, the Scotchman
subscribed twice the usual sum, thus securing double Profits.
The fourth was a gentleman farmer, whose sole enemy, by his account,
was Free Trade, and who held the names Cobden and Bright in utter
detestation.

As soon as the tents were pitched, all set to work to unpack the dray:
and after taking out sufficient flour, sugar, tea, &c., for use, the
remainder of the goods were taken to the nearest store, where they were
sold at an average of five times their original costs: the most
profitable portion of the cargo consisted of some gunpowder and
percusion-caps. The day after, by good fortune, we disposed of the dray
and horses for 250 pounds, being only 40 pounds less than we paid for
them. As the cost of keeping horses at the diggings is very great
(sometimes two or three pounds a day per head), besides the constant risk
of their being lost or stolen, we were well satisfied with the bargain;
and never did mind young speculators, who five months previous had been
utter strangers, accomplish their undertaking to themselves, or less
disagreement one with another.

This business settled, the next was to procure licences, which
was a walk of nearly five miles to the Commissioners' tent, Bendigo,
and wasted the best part of Wednesday.

Meanwhile we were Seriously debating about again changing our quarters.
We found it almost impossible to sleep. Never before could I have
imagined that a woman's voice could utter sounds sufficiently
discordant to drive repose far from us, yet so it was.

The gentlemen christened her "the amiable female."

The tent of this "amiable" personage was situated at right angles with
ours and our shipmates, so that the annoyance was equally felt. Whilst
her husband was at work farther down the gully, she kept a sort of sly
grog-shop, and passed the day in selling and drinking spirits,
swearing, and smoking a short tobacco-pipe at the door of her tent. She
was a most repulsive looking object. A dirty gaudy-coloured dress hung
unfastened about her shoulders, coarse black hair unbrushed, uncombed,
dangled about her face, over which her evil habits had spread a
genuine bacchanalian glow, whilst in a loud masculine voice she uttered
the most awful words that ever disgraced the mouth of man ten
thousand times more awful when proceeding from a woman's lips.

But night was the dreadful time; then, if her husband had been unlucky,
or herself made fewer profits during the day, it was misery to be
within earshot; so much so, that we decided to leave so uncomfortable a
neighbourhood without loss of time, and carrying our tents, &c., higher
up the gully we finally pitched them not far from the Portland Stores.

This was done on Thursday, and the same evening two different claims
were marked out ready to commence working the next day. These claims
were the usual size, eight feet square.

FRIDAY, 24.--Early this morning our late travelling companion, Joe, made
his appearance with a sack (full of bran, he said,) on his shoulders.
After a little confidential talk with William, he left the sack in our
tent, as he had no other safe place to stow it away in till the bran
was sold. This gave rise to no suspicion, and in the excitement of
digging was quite forgotten.

About noon I contrived to have a damper and a large joint of baked
mutton ready for the "day labourers," as they styled themselves. The
mutton was baked in a large camp oven suspended from three iron bars,
which were fixed in the ground in the form of a triangle, about a yard
apart, and were joined together at the top, at which part the oven was
hung over a wood fire. This grand cooking machine was, of course,
outside the tent. Sometimes I have seen a joint of meat catch fire in
one of these ovens, and it is difficult to extinguish it before the fat
has burnt itself away, when the meat looks like a cinder.

Our butcher would not let us have less than half a sheep at a time, for
which we paid 8s. I was not good housekeeper enough to know how much it
weighed, but the meat was very good. Flour was then a shilling a pound,
or two hundred pounds weight for nine pounds in money. Sugar was 1s.
6d., and tea 3s. 6d. Fortunately we were Well provided with these three
latter articles.

The hungry diggers did ample justice to the dinner I had provided for
them. They brought home a tin-dish full of surface soil, which in
the course of the afternoon I attempted to wash.

Tin-dish-washing is difflcult to describe. It requires a watchful eye
and a skilful hand; it is the most mysterious department of the
gold-digging business. The tin dish (which, of course, is round) is
generally about eighteen inches across the top, and twelve across the
bottom, with sloping sides of three or four inches deep. The one I used
was rather smaller. Into it I placed about half the "dirt"--digger's
technical term for earth, or soil--that they had brought, filled the
dish up with water, and then with a thick stick commenced making it
into a batter; this was a most necessary commencement, as the soil was
of a very stiff clay. I then let this batter--I know no name more
appropriate for it--settle, and carefully poured off the water at the
top. I now added some clean water, and repeated the operation of mixing
it up; and after doing this several times, the "dirt," of course,
gradually diminishing, I was overjoyed to see a few bright specks, which
I carefully picked out, and with renewed energy continued this by no
means elegant work. Before the party returned to tea I had washed out all
the stuff, and procured from it nearly two pennyweights of gold-dust,
worth about 6s. or 7s.

Tin-dish-washing is generally done beside a stream, and it is
astonishing how large a quantity of "dirt" those who have the knack of
doing it well and quickly can knock off in the course of the day. To do
this, however, requires great manual dexterity, and much gold is lost
by careless washing. A man once extracted ten pounds weight of the
precious metal from a heap of soil which his mate had washed too
hurriedly.

In the evening Joe made his re-appearance, carrying another sack on his
shoulders, which contained a number of empty bottles, and now for the
first time we became initiated into the BRAN mystery which had often
puzzled us on the road--it seemed so strange a thing to carry up to the
diggings. Joe laughed at our innocence, and denied having told us
anything approaching a falsehood; a slight suppression of the truth was
all he would plead guilty to. I verily believe William had put him up
to this dodge, to make us smile when we should have felt annoyed. Being
taxed with deceit, said he: "I told you two-thirds truth; there
wanted but two more letters to make it BRANDY," and with the greatest
SANG-FROID he drew out a small keg of brandy from the first sack and
half-filled the bottles with the spirit, after which he filled them all
up to the neck with water. The bottles were then corked, and any or all
of them politely offered to us at the rate of 30s a piece. We declined
purchasing, but he sold them all during the evening, for which we were
rather glad, as, had they been discovered by the officials in our tent,
a fine of 50 pounds would have been the consequence of our foolish
comrades good-nature and joke-loving propensities.

We afterwards found that Master Joe had played the same trick with our
shipmates and with the two doctors, who had bought a tent and settled
themselves near our old place by Montgomery's store.

SATURDAY, 25.--The two holes were "bottomed" before noon with no paying
result. It had been hard work, and they were rather low-spirited about
it. The rest of the day they spent in washing some surface-soil, and
altogether collected about I ounce and a half of gold-dust,
counting the little I had washed out on the Friday. In the evening it
was all dried by being placed in a spade over a quick fire. We had
before determined to square accounts and divide the gold every Saturday
night, but this small quantity was not worth the trouble, so it was
laid by in the digger's usual treasury, a German match-box. These round
boxes hold on an average eight ounces of gold.

These two unproductive holes had not been very deep. The top, or
surface soil, for which a spade or shovel is used, was of clay. This
was succeeded by a strata almost as hard as iron--technically called
"burnt stuff,"--which robbed the pick of its points nearly as soon as the
blacksmith had steeled them at a charge of 2s. 6d. a point. Luckily for
their arms, this strata was but thin, and the yellow or blue clay which
followed was comparatively easy work--here and there an awkward lump of
quartz required the use of the. pick. Suddenly they came to some
glittering particles of yellow, which, with heartfelt delight they
hailed as gold. It WAS MICA. Many are at first deceived by it, but it
is soon distinguished by its weight, as the mica will blow away with
the slightest puff. After a little useless digging among the
clay, they reached the solid rock, and thus having fairly "bottomed,"
the holes to no purpose, they abandoned them.

SUNDAY, 26.--Although impossible at the diggings to keep this day with
those outward observances which are customary in civilized life, we
attempted to make as much difference as possible between the day of
rest and that of work. Frank performed the office of chaplain, and read
the morning service in the calm and serious manner which we expected
from him.

I was rather amused to see the alacrity with which, when this slight
service was over, they all prepared to assist me in the formation of a
huge plum-pudding for the Sunday's dinner. Stoning plums and chopping
suet seemed to afford them immense pleasure--I suppose it was a
novelty; and, contrary to the fact implied in the old adage, "too many
cooks spoil the broth" our pudding turned out A1.

In the afternoon we strolled about, and paid a visit to our shipmates.
I was certainly most agreeably surprised by the quiet and order that
everywhere prevailed.

MONDAY, 27.--Today our party commenced "sinking" in a new spot at some
little distance. The first layer of black soil was removed, and on some
being washed in a tin dish, it was found to contain a tolerable portion
of gold, and was pronounced to be worth transporting to the tent to be
regularly cradled. My first official notice of this fact was from
Richard, who entered the tent humming "Suona la tromba," with a bucket
full of this heavy soil in each hand. He broke off in the middle of his
song to ask for some water to drink, and grumbled most energetically at
such dirty work. He then gave me an account of the morning's doings.
After a thin layer of the black surface soil, it appeared they had come
to a strata of thick yellow clay, in which gold was often very
abundant. This soil, from being so stiff, would require "puddling," a
work of which he did not seem to relish the anticipation. Before the
day was over, a great number of buckets full of both soils were brought
up and deposited in heaps near the tents. All, with the exception of
the "operatic" Richard, seemed in good spirits, and were well satisfied
with what had been done in so short a time.

In the evening the other party of our shipmates arrived, and were busy
fixing their tent at a distance of about forty yards from us. Frank and
the other four, though pretty tired with the days labour, lent a
helping hand, the united efforts of nine speedily accomplished this
business, after which an immense quantity of cold mutton, damper, and
tea made a rapid disappearance, almost emptying my larder, which, by
the bye, was an old tea-chest.

We asked our friends their motive for leaving the old spot, and they
declared they could stand the "amiable female" no longer; she grew
worse and worse. "Her tongue was sich" observed the Scotchman, "as wad
drive ony puir beastie wild." She had regularly quarrelled with the two
doctors because they would not give her a written certificate, that the
state of her health required the constant use of spirits. She offered them
two guineas for it, which they indignantly refused, and she then declared
her intention of injuring their pracitce as much as possible, which she
had power to do, as her tent was of an evening quite the centre of
attraction and her influence proportionably great. Pity 'tis that such a
woman should be able to mar or make the fortunes of her fellow
creatures.

TUESDAY, 28.--The holes commenced yeserday were duly "bottomed," but no
nice pocket-full of gold was the result; our shipmates, however, met
with better success, having found three small nuggets weighing two to
four ounces each at a depth of not quite five feet from the surface.

WEDNESDAY, 29.--To-day was spent in puddling and cradling.

Puddling is on the same principle as tin-dish-washing, only on a much
larger scale. Great wooden tubs are filled with the dirt and fresh
water, and the former is chopped about in all directions with a spade,
so as to set the metal free from the adhesive soil and pipe-clay.
Sometimes I have seen energetic diggers tuck up their trowsers, off
with their boots, step into the tub, and crush it about with their feet
in the same manner as tradition affirms that the London bakers knead
their bread. Every now and again the dirtied water is poured off
gently, and with a fresh supply, which is furnished by a mate with a
long-handled dipper from the stream or pool, you puddle away. The
great thing is, not to be afraid Of over-work, for the better
the puddling is, so much the more easy and profitable is the cradling.
After having been well beaten in the tubs, the "dirt" is put into the
hopper of the cradle, which is then rocked gently, whilst another party
keeps up a constant supply of fresh water. In the right hand of the
cradler is held a thick stick, ready to break up any clods which may be
in the hopper, but which a good puddler would not have sent there.

There was plenty of water near us, for a heavy rain during the night
had filled several vacated holes, and as there were five pair of hands,
we hoped, before evening, greatly to diminish our mud-heaps.

Now for an account of our proceedings.

Two large wooden tubs were firmly secured in the ground and four set to
work puddling, whilst Frank busied himself in fixing the cradle. He
drove two blocks into the ground; they were grooved for the rockers of
the cradle to rest in, so as to let it rock with ease and regularity.
The ground was lowered so as to give the cradle a slight slant, and
thus enable the water to run off more quickly. If a cradle dips
too much, a little gold may wash off with the light sand. The cradling
machine, though simple in itself, is rather difficult to describe. In
shape and size it resembles an infant's cradle, and over that portion
of it where, if for a baby, a hood would be, is a perforated plate with
wooden sides, a few inches high all round, forming a sort of box with
the perforated plate for a bottom; this box is called the hopper. The
dirt is here placed, and the constant supply of water, after well
washing the stuff, runs out through a hole made at the foot of the
cradle. The gold generally rests on a wooden shelf under the hopper,
though sometimes a good deal will run down with the water and dirt into
one of the compartments at the bottom, and to separate it from the sand
or mud, tin-dish-washing is employed.

As soon as sufficient earth was ready, one began to rock, and another
to fill the hopper with water. Richard continued puddling, William,
enacted Aquarius for him, whilst a fifth was fully occupied in
conveying fresh dirt to the tubs, and taking the puddled stuff from
them to the hopper of the cradle. Every now and then a, change of hands
was made, and thus passed the day. In the evening, the products
were found to be one small nugget weighing a quarter of an ounce, and
in gold-dust eight pennyweights, ten grains, being worth, at the
digging price for gold, about thirty-five shillings. This was rather
less than we hard less calculated upon, and Richard signified his
intention of returning to Melbourne, "He could no longer put up with
such ungentlemanly work in so very unintellectual a neighbourhood, with
bad living into the bargain." These last words, which were pronounced
SOTTO VOCE, gave us a slight clue to the real cause of his dislike to
the diggings, though we, did not thoroughly understand it till next
morning. It originated in some bottles of mixed pickles which he had in
vain wanted Frank, who this week was caterer for the party, to purchase
at four shillings a bottle, which sum, as we were all on economical
thoughts intent, Frank refused to expend on any unnecessary article of
food. This we learnt next morning at breakfast, when Richard
congratulated himself on that being the last meal he should make of
tea, damper and muton, without the latter having something to render it
eatable. The puddling and cradling work had, I fancy, given the
finishing stroke to his disgust. Poor Dick! he met with little
commiseration: we could not but remember the thousands in the old
country who would have rejoiced at the simple fare he so much despised.
William, in his laughing way, observed, "that he was too great a pickle
himself, without buying fresh ones."

Richard left us on Thursday morning, and with him went one of the other
party, the house-painter and decorator, who also found gold-digging not
so Pleasant as he had expected. We afterwards learnt that before
reaching Kilmore they separated. Richard arrived safely in Melbourne,
and entered a goldbroker's office at a salary of three pounds a week,
which situation I believe he now fills; and as "the governor," to use
Richard's own expression, "has not yet come to his senses," he must
greatly regret having allowed his temper to be the cause of his leaving
the comforts of home. His companion, who parted with Richard at
Kilmore, was robbed of what little gold he had, and otherwise
maltreated, whilst passing through the Black Forest. On reaching
Melbourne, he sold everything he possessed, and that not being
sufficient, he borrowed enough to pay his passage back to
England, where, doubtless, he will swell the number of those whose lack
of success in the colonies, and vituperations against them, are only
equalled by their unfitness ever to have gone there.

Thursday was past in puddling and cradling, with rather better results
than on the first day, still it was not to our satisfaction, and on
Friday two pits were sunk. one was shallow, and the bottom reached
without a speck of gold making its appearance. The other was left over
till the next morning. This was altogether very disheartening work,
particularly as the expenses of living were not small. There were many,
however, much worse off than ourselves, though here and there a lucky
digger excited the envy of all around him. Many were the tricks
resorted to in order to deceive new-comers. Holes were offered for
sale, in which the few grains that were carefully placed in sight was
all that the buyer gained by his purchase.

A scene of this description was enacted this Friday evening, at a
little distance from us. The principal actors in it were two in number.
One sat a little way from his hole with a heap of soil by his
side, and a large tin dish nearly full of dirt in his hand. As he
swayed the dish to and fro in the process of washing, an immense
number of small nuggets displayed themselves, which fact in a loud tone
he announced to his "mate", at the same time swearing at him for
keeping at work so late in the evening. This digger, who was shovelling
up more dirt from the hole, answered in the same elegant language,
calling him an "idle good-for-nought." Every now and then he threw a
small nugget to the tin-dish-washer, loudly declaring, "he'd not leave
off while them bright bits were growing thick as taters underground."

"Then be d----d if I don't!" shouted the other;" and I'll sell the hole
for two hundred yeller boys down."

This created a great sensation among the bystanders, who during the
time had collected round, and among whom was a party of three,
evidently "new chums."

"It shall go for a hundred and fifty!" again shouted the washer, giving
a glance in the direction in which they stood.

"Going for a hundred, tin-dish as well!" letting some of the
water run off, and displaying the gold.

This decided the matter, and one of the three stepped forward and
offered the required sum.

"Money down," said the seller; "these here fellers 'll witness it's all
reg'lar."

The money was paid in notes, and the purchasers were about to commence
possession by taking the tin-dish out of his hand.

"Wait till he's emptied. I promised yer the dish, but not the stuff in
it," and turning out the dirt into a small tub the two worthies
departed, carrying the tub away with them.

Not a grain of gold did the buyers find in the pit next morning.

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2.--This day found the four hard at work at an early
hour, and words will not describe our delight when they hit upon a
"pocket" full of the precious metal. The "pocket was situated in a dark
corner of the hole, and William was the one whose fossicking-knife
first brought its hidden beauties to light. Nugget after nugget did
that dirty soil give up; by evening they had taken out five
pounds weight of gold. Foolish Richard! we all regretted his absence at
this discovery.

As the next day was the Sabbath, thirty-six hours of suspense must
elapse before we could know whether this was but a passing kindness
from the fickle goddess, or the herald of continued good fortune.

This night, for the first time, we were really in dread of an attack,
though we had kept our success quite secret, not even mentioning it to
our shipmates; nor did we intend to do so until Monday morning, when
our first business would be to mark out three more claims round the
lucky spot, and send our gold down to the escort-office for security.
For the present we were obliged to content ourselves with "planting"
it--that is, burying it in the ground; and not a footstep passed in our
neighbourhood without our imagining ourselves robbed of the precious
treasure, and as it was Saturday night--the noisiest and most riotous at
the diggings--our panics were neither few nor far between. So true it is
that riches entail trouble and anxiety on their possessor.




Chapter VIII.



AN ADVENTURE


SUNDAY 3.--A fine morning. After our usual service Frank, my brother,
and myself, determined on an exploring expedition, and off we went,
leaving the dinner in the charge of the others. We left the busy throng
of the diggers far behind us, and wandered into spots where the sound
of the pick and shovel, or the noise of human traffic, had never
penetrated. The scene and the day were in unison; all was harmonious,
majestic, and serene. Those mighty forests, hushed in a sombre and
awful silence; those ranges of undulating hill and dale never yet
trodden by the foot of man; the soft still air, so still that
it left every leaf unruffled, flung an intensity of awe over our
feelings, and led us from the contemplation of nature to worship
nature's God.

We sat in silence for some while deeply impressed by all around us,
and, whilst still sitting and gazing there, a change almost
imperceptibly came over the face of both earth and sky. The forest
swayed to and fro, a sighing moaning sound was borne upon the wind, and
a noise as of the rush of waters, dark massive clouds rolled over the
sky till the bright blue heavens were completely hidden, and then, ere
we had recovered from our first alarm and bewilderment, the storm in
its unmitigated fury burst upon us. The rain fell in torrents, and we
knew not where to turn.

Taking me between them, they succeeded in reaching an immense shea-oak,
under which we hoped to find some shelter till the violence of the rain
had diminished; nor where we disappointed, though it was long before we
could venture to leave our place of refuge. At length however, we did
so, and endeavoured to find our way back to Eagle Hawk Gully. Hopeless
task! The ground was so slippery, it was as much as we could do
to walk without falling; the mud and dirt clung to our boots, and a
heavy rain beat against our faces and nearly blinded us.

"It is clearing up to windward," observed Frank; "another half-hour and
the rain will be all but over; let us return to our tree again."

We did so. Frank was correct; in less than the time he had specified a
slight drizzling rain was all of the storm that remained.

With much less difficulty we again attempted to return home, but before
very long we made the startling discovery that we had completely lost
our way, and to add to our misfortune the small pocket-compass, which
Frank had brought with him, and which would have now so greatly
assisted us, was missing, most probably dropped from his pocket during
the skirmish to get under shelter. We still wandered along till stopped
by the shades of evening, which came upon us--there is little or no
twilight in Australia.

We seated ourselves upon the trunk of a fallen tree, wet, hungry, and,
worst of all, ignorant of where we were. Shivering with cold,
and our wet garments hanging most uncomfortably around us, we
endeavoured to console one another by reflecting that the next morning
we could not fail to reach our tents. The rain had entirely ceased, and
providentially for us the night was pitch dark--I say providentially,
because after having remained for two hours in this wretched plight a
small light in the distance became suddenly visible to us all, so
distant, that but for the intensity of the darkness it might have
passed unnoticed. "Thank God!" simultaneously burst from our lips.

"Let us hasten there," cried Frank, "a whole night like this may be
your sister's death and would ruin the constitution of a giant."

To this we gladly acceded, and were greatly encouraged by perceiving
that the light remained stationary. But it was a perilous undertaking.
Luckily my brother had managed to get hold of a long stick with which
he sounded the way, for either large stones or water-holes would have
been awkward customers in the dark; wonderful to relate we escaped
both, and when within hailing distance of the light, which we perceived
came from a torch hold by some one, we shouted with all our
remaining strength, but without diminishing our exertions to reach it.
Soon--with feelings that only those who have encountered similar dangers
can understand--answering voices fell upon our ears. Eagerly we pressed
forward, and in the excitement of the moment we relinquished all hold
of one another, and attempted to wade through the mud singly.

"Stop! halt!" shouted more than one stentorian voice; but the warning
came too late. My feet slipped--a sharp pain succeeded by a sudden
chill--a feeling of suffocation--of my head being ready to burst--and I
remembered no more.

When I recovered consciousness it was late in the morning, for the
bright sun shone upon the ground through the crevices of a sail cloth
tent, and so different was all that met my eyes to the dismal scene
through which I had so lately passed, and which yet haunted my memory,
that I felt that sweet feeling of relief which we experience when,
waking from some horrid vision, we become convinced how unsubstantial
are its terrors, and are ready to smile at the pain they excited.

That I was in a strange place became quickly evident, and among the
distant hum of voices which ever and anon broke the silence not one
familiar tone could I recognize. I endeavoured to raise myself so as to
hear more distinctly, and then it was that an acute pain in the ankle
of the right foot, gave me pretty strong evidence as to the reality of
the last night's adventures. I was forced to lie down again, but not
before I had espied a hand-bell which lay within reach on a small
barrel near my bed. Determined as far as possible to fathom the
mystery, I rang a loud peal with it, not doubting but what it would
bring my brother to me. My surprise and delight may be easier imagined
than described, when, as though in obedience to my summons, I saw a
small white hand push aside the canvas at one corner of the tent, and
one of my own sex entered.

She was young and fair; her step was soft and her voice most musically
gentle. Her eyes were a deep blue, and a rich brown was the colour of
her hair, which she wore in very short curls all round her head and
parted on one side, which almost gave her the appearance of a pretty
boy.

These little particulars I noticed afterwards; at that time I only felt
that her gentle voice and kind friendliness of manner inexpressibly
soothed me.

After having bathed my ankle, which I found to be badly sprained and
cut, she related, as far as she was acquainted with them, the events
the previous evening. I learnt that these tents belonged to a party
from England, of one of whom she was the wife, and the tent in which I
lay was her apartment. They had not been long at the diggings, and
preferred the spot where they were to the more frequented parts.

The storm of yesterday had passed over them without doing much damage,
and as their tents were well painted over the tops, they managed to
keep themselves tolerably dry; but later in the evening, owing to the
softness of the ground, one of the side-posts partly gave way, which
aroused them all, and torches were lit, and every one busied in trying
to prop it up till morning. Whilst thus engaged they heard our voices
calling for help. They answered, at the same time getting ready some
more torches before, advancing to meet us, as there were
several pit-holes between us and them. Their call for us to remain
stationary came too late to save me from slipping into one of their
pits, thereby spraining my ankle and otherwise hurting myself, besides
being buried to my forehead in mud and water. The pit was not quite
five feet deep, but, unfortunately for myself in this instance, I
belong to the pocket edition of the feminine sex. They soon extricated
me from this perilous situation, and carried me to their tents, where,
by the assistance of my new friend, I was divested of the mud that
still clung to me, and placed into bed.

Before morning the storm, which we all thought had passed over, burst
forth with redoubled fury; the flashes of lightning were succeeded by
loud peals of thunder, and the rain came splashing down. Their tents
were situated on a slight rise, or they would have run great risk of
being washed away; every hole was filled with water, and the shea-oak,
of whose friendly shelter we had availed ourselves the evening before,
was struck by lightning, shivered into a thousand pieces. After a while
the storm abated, and the warm sun and a drying wind were quickly
removing all traces of it.

Frank and my brother, after an early breakfast, had set out for Eagle
Hawk Gully under the guidance of my fair friend's husband, who knew the
road thither very well; it was only three miles distant. He was to
bring back with him a change of clothing for me, as his wife had
persuaded my brother to leave me in her charge until I had quite
recovered from the effects of the accident, "which he more readily
promised," she observed, "as we are not quite strangers, having met
once before."

This awakened my curiosity, and I would not rest satisfied till fully
acquainted with the how, when, and where. Subsequently she related to
me some portion of the history of her life, which it will be no breach
of confidence to repeat here.

Short as it is, however, it is deserving of another chapter.




Chapter IX.



HARRIETTE WALTERS


Harriette Walters had been a wife but twelve months, when the sudden
failure of the house in which her husband was a junior partner involved
them in irretrievable ruin, and threw them almost penniless upon the
world. At this time the commercial advantages of Australia, the opening
it afforded for all classes of men, and above all, its immense mineral
wealth, were the subject of universal attention. Mr. Walters' friends
advised him to emigrate, and the small sum saved from the wreck of
their fortune served to defray the expenses of the journey. Harriette,
sorely against her wishes, remained behind with an old maiden
aunt, until her husband could obtain a home for her in the colonies.

The day of parting arrived; the ship which bore him away disappeared
from her sight, and almost heart-broken she returned to the humble
residence of her sole remaining relative.

Ere she had recovered from the shock occasioned by her husband's
departure, her aged relation died from a sudden attack of illness, and
Harriette was left alone to struggle with her poverty and her grief.
The whole of her aunt's income had been derived from an annuity, which
of course died with her; and her personal property, when sold, realized
not much more than sufficient to pay a few debts and the funeral
expenses; so that when these last sad duties were performed, Harriette
found herself with a few pounds in her pocket, homeless, friendless,
and alone.

Her thoughts turned to the distant land, her husband's home, and every
hope was centred in the one intense desire to join him there. The means
were wanting, she had none from whom she could solicit assistance, but
her determination did not fail. She advertized for a situation
as companion to an invalid, or nurse to young children, during the
voyage to Port Philip, provided her passage-money was paid by her
employer. This she soon obtained. The ship was a fast sailer, the winds
were favourable, and by a strange chance she arrived in Melbourne three
weeks before her husband. This time was a great trial to her. Alone and
unprotected in that strange, rough city, without money, without
friends, she felt truly wretched. It was not a place for a female to be
without a protector, and she knew it, yet protector she had none; even
the family with whom she had come out, had gone many miles up the
country. She possessed little money, lodgings and food were at an awful
price, and employment for a female, except of a rough sort, was not
easily procured.

In this dilemma she took the singular notion into her head of
disguising her sex, and thereby avoiding much of the insult and
annoyance to which an unprotected female would have been liable. Being
of a slight figure, and taking the usual colonial costume--loose
trowsers, a full, blue serge shirt, fastened round the waist by
a leather belt, and a wide-awake--Harriette passed very well for what
she assumed to be--a young lad just arrived from England. She
immediately obtained a light situation near the wharf, where for about
three weeks she worked hard enough at a salary of a pound a week,
board, and permission to sleep in an old tumbledown shed beside the
store.

At last the long looked-for vessel arrived. That must have been a
moment of intense happiness which restored her to her husband's
arms--for him not unmingled with surprise; he could not at first
recognize her in her new garb. She would hear of no further separation,
and when she learnt he had joined a party for the Bendigo diggings, she
positively refused to remain in Melbourne, and she retained her boyish
dress until their arrival at Bendigo. The party her husband belonged to
had two tents, one of which they readily gave up to the married couple,
as they were only too glad to have the company and in-door assistance
of a sensible, active woman during their spell at the diggings. For the
sake of economy, during the time that elapsed before they could
commence their journey up, all of them lived in the tents which
they pitched on a small rise on the south side of the Yarra. Here it
was that our acquaintance first took place; doubtless, my readers will,
long ere this, have recognized in the hospitable gentleman I
encountered there, my friend's husband, and, in the delicate-looking
youth who had so attracted my attention, the fair Harriette herself.

        *  *  *  *  *

But--REVENONS A NOS MOUTONS.

On the third day of my visit I was pronounced convalescent, and that
evening my brother and William came to conduct me back to Eagle Hawk
Gully. It was with no little regret that I bade farewell to my new
friend, and I must confess that the pleasure of her society had for the
time made me quite careless as to the quantity of gold our party might
be taking up during my absence. Whilst walking towards our tents, I
heard the full particulars of their work, which I subjoin, so as to
resume the thread of my DIGGING narrative in a proper manner.

MONDAY.--Much upset by their anxiety occasioned by the non-appearance
the previous evening of Frank, my brother, and myself. The two
former did not reach home till nearly noon, the roads were so heavy.
After dinner all set to work in better spirits; came to the end of the
gold--took out nearly four Pounds weight.

TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY.--Digging various holes in the vicinity of the
lucky spot, but without success. The other party did the same with no
better result.

Such were the tidings that I heard after my three days' absence.

THURSDAY.--To-day was spent in prospecting--that is, searching for a
spot whose geological formation gives some promise of the precious
metal. In the evening, William and Octavius returned with the news that
they had found a place at some, distance from the gully, which they
thought would prove "paying," as they had washed some of the surface
soil, which yielded well. It was arranged that the party be divided
into two, and take alternate days to dig there.

FRIDAY.--In pursuance of the foregoing plan William and Octavius set
off, carrying a good quantity of dinner and their tools along with
them. They worked hard enough during the day, but only brought
back three pennyweights of gold-dust with them. My brother and Frank
gained a deal more by surface washing at home.

SATURDAY.--Changed hands. Frank and my brother to the new spot, digging.
Octavius and William surface washing. There results were much the same
as the day before.

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 10--We took advantage of the fine weather to pay a visit
to Harriette and her party. We found them in excellent spirits, for at
last they had hit upon a rich vein, which had for three days been
yielding an average of four pounds weight a day, and was not yet
exhausted. I say AT LAST, for I have not before mentioned that they had
never obtained more than an ounce of gold altogether, up to the day I
left them. We were sincerely pleased with their good fortune. Harriette
hoped that soon they might be able to leave this wild sort of life, and
purchase a small farm, and once again have a home of their own. This
could not be done near Melbourne, so they meant to go to South
Australia, where any quantity of land may be bought. In THIS colony no
smaller quantity than a square mile--640 acres--is sold by the
Government in one lot; consequently, those whose capital is unequal to
purchase this, go to some other colony, and there invest the wealth
they have acquired in Victoria.

As we had some idea of leaving Eagle Hawk Gully, I bade Harriette
farewell. We never expected to meet again. It chanced otherwise; but I
must not anticipate.

Monday and Tuesday were most unprofitably passed in digging holes; and
on Tuesday night we determined to leave the Eagle Hawk, and try our
fortune in some of the neighbouring gullies.

Wednesday was a bustling day. We sold our tent, tools, cradle, &c., as
we knew plenty were always to be bought of those who, like ourselves,
were changing their place. Had we known what we were about, we should
never have burdened ourselves by bringing so many goods and chattels a
hundred and twenty miles or more up the country; but "experience
teaches." Having parted with all encumbrances, myself excepted, we
started for the Iron Bark Gully. All the gold had been transmitted by
the escort to Melbourne, and one fine nugget, weighing nearly five
ounces, had been sent to Richard. We could not resist the
pleasure of presenting him with it, although by our rules not entitled
to any of the proceeds.

The following are the rules by which our affairs were regulated. They
were drawn up before leaving Melbourne, and signed by all. Though crude
and imperfect, they were sufficient to preserve complete harmony and
good fellowship between five young men of different character, taste,
and education--a harmony and good fellowship which even Richard's
withdrawal did not interrupt.

The rules were these:

1. No one party to be ruler; but every week by turn, one to buy, sell,
take charge of gold, and transact all business matters.

2. The gold to be divided, and accounts settled every Saturday night.

3. Any one voluntarily leaving the party, to have one-third of his
original share in the expense of purchasing tent and tools returned to
him, but to have no further claim upon them or upon the gold that may
be found after his withdrawal. Any one dismissed the party for
misconduct, to forfeit all claim upon the joint property.

4. The party agree to stand by one another in all danger, difficulty,
or illness.

5. Swearing, gambling, and drinking spirits to be strictly avoided.

6. Morning service to be read every Sunday morning.

7. All disputes or appeals from the foregoing rules to be settled by a
majority.




Chapter X.



IRONBARK GULLY


I have said little in description of the Eagle Hawk, for all gullies or
valleys at the diggings bear a strong external resemblance one to
another. This one differed from others only in being much longer and
wider; the sides, as is usually the case in the richest gullies, were
not precipitous, but very gradual; a few mountains closed the
background. The digging was in many places very shallow, and the soil
was sometimes of a clayey description, sometimes very gravelly with
slate bottom, sometimes gravelly with pipeclay bottom, sometimes quite
sandy; in fact, the earth was of all sorts and depths.

At one time there were eight thousand diggers together in Eagle Hawk
Gully. This was some months before we visited it. During the period of
our stay at Bendigo there were not more than a thousand, and fewer
still in the Iron Bark. The reasons for this apparent desertion were
several.

The weather continued wet and uncertain, so that many who had gone down
to Melbourne remained there, not yet considering the ground
sufficiently recovered from the effects of the prolonged wet season,
they had no desire to run the risk of being buried alive in their
holes. Many had gone to the Adelaide diggings, of which further
particulars hereafter, and many more had gone across the country to the
Ovens, or, farther still, to the Sydney diggings themselves. According
to digging parlance, "the Turon was looking up," and Bendigo, Mount
Alexander, and Forest Creek were thinned accordingly. But perhaps the
real cause of their desertion arose from the altered state of the
diggings. Some time since one party netted 900 pounds in three weeks;
100 pounds a week was thought nothing wonderful. Four men found one day
seventy-five pounds weight; another party took from the foot of a tree
gold to the value of 2000 pounds. A friend of mine once met a man whom he
knew returning to Melbourne, walking in dusty rags and dirt behind a dray,
yet carrying with him 1,500 pounds worth of gold. In Peg Leg Gully, fifty
and even eighty pounds weight had been taken from holes only three or four
feet deep. At Forest Creek a hole produced sixty pounds weight in one
day, and forty more the day after. From one of the golden gullies a
party took up the incredible quantity of one hundred and ninety-eight
pounds weight in six weeks. These are but two or three instances out of
the many that occurred to prove the richness of this truly auriferous
spot. The consequence may be easily imagined; thousands flocked to
Bendigo. The "lucky bits" were still as numerous, but being
disseminated among a greater number of diggers, it followed that there
were many more blanks than prizes, and the disappointed multitude were
ready to be off to the first new discovery. Small gains were beneath
their notice. I have often heard the miners say that they would rather
spend their last farthing digging fifty holes, even if they found
nothing in them, than "tamely" earn an ounce a day by washing
the surface soil; on the same principle, I suppose, that a gambler
would throw up a small but certain income to be earned by his own
industry, for the uncertain profits of the cue or dice.

For ourselves, we had nothing to complain about. During the short space
of time that we had been at Eagle Hawk Gully, we had done as well as
one in fifty, and might therefore be classed among the lucky diggers;
but "the more people have, the more they want;" and although the many
pounds weight of the precious metal that our party had "taken up" gave,
when divided, a good round sum a-piece, the avaricious creatures bore
the want of success that followed more unphilosophically than they had
done before the rich "pocketful" of gold had made its appearance. They
would dig none but shallow holes, and a sort of gambling manner of
setting to work replaced the active perseverance they had at first
displayed.

Some days before we left, Eagle Hawk Gully had been condemned as a
"worthless place," and a change decided on. The when and the
where were fixed much in the following manner:

"I say, mates," observed William on the evening of the Sunday on which
I had paid my last visit to Harriette, "I say, mates, nice pickings a
man got last week in the Iron Bark--only twenty pounds weight out of one
hole; that's all."

"Think it's true?" said Octavius, quietly.

"Of course; likely enough. I propose we pack up our traps, and honour
this said gully with our presence forthwith."

"Let's inquire first," put in Frank; "it's foolish to change good
quarters on such slight grounds."

"Good quarters! slight grounds!" cried William; "what next? what would
you have? Good quarters! yes, as far as diggings concerned--whether you
find anything for your digging is another matter. Slight grounds,
indeed! twenty pounds weight in one day! Yes, we ought to inquire;
you're right there, old boy, and the proper place to commence our
inquiries is at the gully itself. Let's be off tomorrow."

"Wait two days longer," said Octavius "and I am agreeable."

And this, after a little chaffing between the impatient William and his
more business-like comrades, was satisfactorily arranged.

Behold us then, on Wednesday the 13th, after having sold all our goods
that were saleable, making our way to the Iron Bark Gully. William
enacted the part of auctioneer, which he did in a manner most
satisfactory to himself, and amusing to his audience; but the things
sold very badly, so many were doing the same. The tents fetched only a
few shillings each, and the tools, cradles, &c., EN MASSE, were knocked
down for half a sovereign.

The morning was rather cloudy, which made our pedestrian mode of
travelling not so fatiguing as it might have been, had the sun in true
colonial strength been shining upon us. This was very fortunately not
the case, for we more than once mistook our way, and made a long walk
out of a short one--quite a work of supererogation--for the roads were
heavy and tiring enough without adding an extra quantity of them.

We passed in the close neighbourhood of Sailor's, Californian,
American, Long, and Piccaninny Gullies before reaching our destination.
Most of these gullies are considered ransacked, but a very fair amount
of gold-dust may be obtained in either by the new comer by tin-dish
fossicking in deserted holes. These deserted gullies, as they are
called, contained in each no trifling population, and looked full
enough for comfortable working. What must they have resembled the
summer previous, when some hundreds of people leaving a flat or gully
was but as a handful of sand from the sea-shore!

Before evening we arrived at the Iron Bark. This gully takes its name
from the splendid trees with which it abounds; and their immense
height, their fluted trunks and massive branches gave them a most
majestic appearance. We paused beneath one in a more secluded part, and
there determined to fix our quarters for the night. The heavy "swags"
were flung upon the ground, and the construction of something
resembling a tent gave them plenty to do; the tomahawks, which they
carried in their belts, were put into immediate requisition, and some
branches of the trees were soon formed into rough tent-poles. The tent,
however, though perhaps as good as could be expected, was
nothing very wonderful after all, being made only of some of the
blankets which our party had brought in their swags. Beneath it I
reposed very comfortably; and, thanks to my fatiguing walk, slept as
soundly as I could possibly have done beneath the roof of a palace. The
four gentlemen wrapped themselves in their blankets, and laid down to
rest upon the ground beside the fire; their only shelter was the
foliage of the friendly tree which spread its branches high above our
heads.

Next morning William was for settling ourselves in the gully. He wanted
tents, tools, &c., purchased, but by dint of much talking and
reasoning, we persuaded him first to look well about, and judge from
the success of others whether we were likely to do any good by stopping
there. We soon heard the history of the "twenty-pound weight" story. As
Frank and Octavius had at once surmised, it originated in a party who
were desirous to sell their claims and baggage before starting for
Melbourne. I believe they succeeded--there are always plenty of "new
chums" to be caught and taken in--and the report had caused a slight
rush of diggers, old and new, to the gully. Many of these
diggers had again departed, others stayed to give the place a trial; we
were not among the latter. The statements of those who were still
working were anything but satisfactory, and we were all inclined to
push on to Forest Creek.

Meanwhile, it is Thursday afternoon. All but Frank appear disposed for
a siesta; he alone seems determined on a walk. I offer myself and am
accepted as a companion, and off we go together to explore this new
locality.

We proceeded up the gully. Deserted holes there were in numbers, many a
great depth, and must have cost a vast amount of manual labour. In some
places the diggers were hard at work, and the blows of the pick, the
splash of water, and the rocking of the cradle made the diggings seem
themselves again. There were several women about, who appeared to take
as active an interest in the work as their "better halves." They may
often be seen cradling with an infant in their arms. A man and a cart
preceeded us up the gully. Every now and again he shouted out in a
stentorian voice that made the welkin ring; and the burden of his cry
was this:

"'Ere's happles, happles, Vandemonian happles, and them as dislikes the
hiland needn't heat them."

The admirers of the fertile island must have been very numerous, for
his customers soon made his pippins disappear.

We passed a butcher's shop, or rather tent, which formed a curious
spectacle. The animals, cut into halves or quarters, were hung round;
no small joints there--half a sheep or none; heads, feet, and skins were
lying about for any one to have for the trouble of picking up, and a
quantity of goods of all sorts and sizes, gridirons, saucepans,
cradles, empty tea-chests, were lying scattered around in all
directions ticketed "for sale." We quickly went on, for it was not a
particularly pleasant sight, and at some distance perceived a quiet
little nook rather out of the road, in which was one solitary tent. We
hastened our steps, and advanced nearer, when we perceived that the
tent was made of a large blanket suspended over a rope, which was tied
from one tree to another. The blanket was fastened into the ground by
large wooden pegs. Near to the opening of the tent, upon a piece of
rock, sat a little girl of about ten years old. By her side was
a quantity of the coarse green gauze of which the diggers' veils are
made. She was working at this so industriously, and her little head was
bent so fixedly over her fingers that she did not notice our approach.
We stood for some minutes silently watching her, till Frank, wishing to
see more of her countenance, clapped his hands noisily together for the
purpose of rousing her.

She started, and looked up. What a volume of sorrow and of suffering
did those pale features speak!

Suddenly a look of pleasure flashed over her countenance. She sprang
from her seat, and advancing towards Frank, exclaimed:

"Maybe you'll be wanting a veil, Sir. I've plenty nice ones, stronger,
better, and cheaper than you'll get at the store. Summer dust's coming,
Sir. You'll want one, won't you? I havn't sold one this week," she
added, almost imploringly, perceiving what she fancied a "no-customer"
look in his face.

"I'll have one, little girl," he answered in a kindly tone, "and what
price is it to be?"

"Eighteen pence, Sir, if you'd please be so good."

Frank put the money into her hand, but returned the veil. This action
seemed not quite to satisfy her; either she did not comprehend what he
meant, or it hurt her self-pride, for she said quickly:

"I havn't only green veils--p'raps you'd like some candles better--I
makes them too."

"YOU make them?" said Frank, laughing as he glanced at the little hands
that were still holding the veil for his acceptance. "YOU make them?
Your mother makes the candles, you mean."

"I have no mother now," said she, with an expression of real melancholy
in her countenance and voice. "I makes the candles and the veils, and
the diggers they buys them of me, cos grandfather's ill, and got nobody
to work for him but me."

"Where do you and your grandfather live?" I asked. "In there?" pointing
to the blanket tent.

She nodded her head, adding in a lower tone:

"He's asleep now. He sleeps more than he did. He's killed hisself
digging for the gold, and he never got none, and he says 'he'll
dig till he dies.'"

"Dig till he dies." Fit motto of many a disappointed gold-seeker, the
finale of many a broken up, desolated home, the last dying words of
many a husband, far away from wife or kindred, with no loved ones near
to soothe his departing moments--no better burial--place than the very
hole, perchance, in which his last earthly labours were spent. These
were some of the thoughts that rapidly chased one another in my mind as
the sad words and still sadder tone fell upon my ear.

I was roused by hearing Frank's voice in inquiry as to how she made her
candles, and she answered all our questions with a child-like NAIVETE,
peculiarly her own. She told us how she boiled down the fat--how once it
had caught fire and burnt her severely, and there was the scar still
showing on her brown little arm--then how she poured the hot fat into,
the tin mould, first fastening in the wicks, then shut up the mould and
left it to grow cold as quickly as it would; all this, and many other
particulars which I have long since forgotten, she told us; and
little by little we learnt too her own history.

Father, mother, grandfather, and herself had all come to the diggings
the summer before. Her father met with a severe accident in digging,
and returned to Melbourne. He returned only to die, and his wife soon
followed him to the grave. Having no other friend or relative in the
colonies, the child had been left with her aged grandfather, who
appeared as infatuated with the gold-fields as a more hale and younger
man. His strength and health were rapidly failing, yet he still dug on.
"We shall be rich, and Jessie a fine lady before I die," was ever his
promise to her, and that at times when they were almost wanting food.

It was with no idle curiosity that we listened to her; none could help
feeling deeply interested in the energetic, unselfish, orphan girl. She
was not beautiful, nor was she fair--she had none of those childish
graces which usually attract so much attention to children of her age;
her eyes were heavy and bloodshot (with work, weeping, cold, and
hunger) except when she spoke of her sick grandfather, and then they
disclosed a world of tenderness; her hair hung matted round her
head; her cheek was wan and sallow; her dress was ill-made and
threadbare; yet even thus, few that had once looked at her but would
wish to look again. There was an indescribable sweetness about the
mouth; the voice was low and musical; the well-shaped head was firmly
set upon her shoulders; a fine open forehead surmounted those drooping
eyes; there was almost a dash of independence; a "little woman" manner
about her that made one imperceptibly forget how young she was in
years.

A slight noise in the tent--a gentle moan.

"He's waked; I must go to him, and," in a lower, almost a deprecating
tone, "he doesn't like to hear stranger folks about."

We cheerfully complied with the hint and departed, Frank first putting
some money into her hand, and promising to call again for the candles
and veils she seemed quite anxious we should take in return.

Our thoughts were as busy as our tongues were silent, during the time
that elapsed before we reached home. When we entered, we found a
discussion going on, and words were running high. My brother and
Octavius were for going somewhere to work, not idle about as
they were doing now; William. wanted to go for a "pleasure trip" to
Forest Creek, and then return to Melbourne for a change. Frank listened
to it all for some minutes, and then made a speech, the longest I ever
heard from him, of which I will repeat portions, as it will explain our
future movements.

"This morning, when going down the gully, I met the person whom we
bought the dray-horses of in Melbourne. I asked him how he was doing,
and he answered, 'badly enough; but a friend's just received accounts
of some new diggings out Albury way, and there I mean to go.' He showed
me also a letter he had received from a party in Melbourne, who were
going there. From these accounts, gold is very plentiful at this spot,
and I for one think we may as well try our fortune in this new place,
as anywhere else. The route is partly along the Sydney road, which is
good, but it is altogether a journey of two hundred miles. I would
therefore propose (turning to my brother), that we proceed first to
Melbourne, where you can leave your sister, and we can then start for
the Ovens; and as provisions are at an exorbitant price there,
we might risk a little money in taking up a dray-full of goods as
before. And as we may never chance to be in this part of Victoria
again, I vote that we take William's 'pleasure trip' to Forest Creek,
stop there a few days, and then to Melbourne."

This plan was adopted.

FRIDAY MORNING.--Frank stole out early after breakfast, for a visit to
little Jessie. I learnt the full particulars afterwards, and therefore
will relate them as they occurred, as though myself present. He did not
find her sitting outside the tent as before, and hesitated whether to
remain or go away, when a low moaning inside determined him to enter.
He pushed aside the blanket, and saw her lying upon an old mattress on
the ground; beside her was a dark object, which he could not at first
distinguish plainly. It was her grandfather, and he was dead. The
moaning came from the living orphan, and piteous it was to hear her. It
took Frank but a few minutes to ascertain all this, and then he gently
let down the blanket, and hastened to the butcher's shop I have already
mentioned. He learnt all that there was to know: that she had no
friends, no relatives, and that nothing but her own labour, and
the kindness of others, had kept them from starvation through the
winter. Frank left a small sum in the butcher's hands, to have the old
man buried, as best could be, in so wild and unnatural a place, and
then returned to the mourning child. When he looked in, she was lying
silent and senseless beside the corpse. A gentle breathing--a slight
heaving of the chest, was all that distinguished the living from the
dead. Carefully taking her in his arms, he carried her to our tent. As
I saw him thus approaching, an idea of the truth flashed across me.
Frank brought her inside, and laid her upon the ground--the only
resting-place we had for her. She soon opened her eyes, the quick
transition through the air had assisted in reviving her, and then I
could tell that the whole sad truth returned fresh to her recollection.
She sat up, resting her head upon her open hands, whilst her eyes were
fixed sullenly, almost doggedly, upon the ground. Our attempts at
consolation seemed useless. Frank and I glanced at one another. "Tell
us how it happened," said he gently.

Jessie made no answer. She seemed like one who heard not.

"It must have been through some great carelessness--some neglect,"
pursued Frank, laying a strong emphasis on the last word.

This effectually roused her.

"I NEVER left him--I NEVER neglected him. When I waked in the morning I
thought him asleep. I made my fire. I crept softly about to make his
gruel for breakfast, and I took it him, and found him dead--dead," and
she burst into a passion of tears.

Frank's pretended insinuation had done her good; and now that her grief
found its natural vent, her mind became calmer, and exhausted with
sorrow, she fell into a soothing slumber.

We had prepared to start before noon, but this incident delayed us a
little. When Jessie awoke, she seemed to feel intuitively that Frank
was her best friend, for she kept beside him during our hasty dinner,
and retained his hand during the walk. There was a pleasant breeze, and
we did not feel over fatigued when, after having walked about eight
miles, we sat down beneath a most magnificent gum tree, more
than a hundred feet high. Frank very wisely made Jessie bestir herself,
and assist in our preparations. She collected dry sticks for a fire,
went with him to a small creek near for a supply of water; and so well
did he succeed, that for a while she nearly forgot her troubles, and
could almost smile at some of William's gay sallies.

Next morning, very early, breakfast rapidly disappeared, and we were
marching onwards. An empty cart, drawn by a stout horse, passed us.

Frank glanced at the pale little child beside him. "Where to?" cried
he.

"Forest Creek."

"Take us for what?"

"A canary a-piece."

"Agreed." And we gladly sprung in. For the sake of the uninitiated, I
must explain that, in digger's slang, a "canary" and half-a-sovereign
are synonymous.

We passed the "Porcupine Inn." We halted at noon, dined, and about two
hours after sighted the Commissioners' tent. In a few minutes the cart
stopped.

"Can't take yer not no further. If the master seed yer, I'd cotch it
for taking yer at all."

We paid him and alighted.




Chapter XI.



FOREST CREEK


In my last chapter we were left standing not far from the
Commissioners' tent, Forest Creek, at about three o'clock in the
afternoon of Saturday, the 16th. An air of quiet prevailed, and made
the scene unlike any other we had as yet viewed at the diggings. It was
the middle of the month; here and there a stray applicant for a licence
might make his appearance, but the body of the diggers had done so long
before, and were disseminated over the creek digging, washing, or
cradling, as the case might be, but here at least was quiet. To the
right of the Licensing Commissioners' tent was a large one
appropriated to receiving the gold to be forwarded to Melbourne by the
Government escort. There were a number of police and pensioners about.

Not many months ago, the scarcity of these at the diggings had
prevented the better class of diggers from carrying on their operations
with any degree of comfort, or feeling that their lives and property
were secure. But this was now altered; large bodies of police were
placed on duty, and wooden buildings erected in various parts of the
diggings for their accommodation. Assistant Commissioners (who were
also magistrates) had been appointed, and large bodies of pensioners
enrolled as police, and acting under their orders. Roads were also
being made in all directions, thereby greatly facilitating
intercommunication.

But I must not forget that we are standing looking about us without
exactly knowing where to turn. Suddenly William started off like a shot
in pursuit of a man a little way from us. We could not at first guess
who it was, for in the diggers' dress all men look like so many
brothers; but as we approached nearer we recognised our late captain,
Gregory.

"Well, old fellow, and where did you spring from?" was Frank's
salutation. "I thought you were stuck fast in the Eagle Hawk."

"I may say the same," said Gregory, smiling. "How got you here?"

This was soon told, and our present dilemma was not left unmentioned.

"A friend in need is a friend indeed," says the proverb, and William
echoed it, as Gregory very complaisantly informed us that, having just
entered upon a store not far distant, he would be delighted to give us
a shelter for a few nights. This we gladly accepted, and were soon
comfortably domiciled beneath a bark and canvas tent adjoining his
store. Here we supped, after which Gregoryy left us, and returned with
mattresses, blankets, &c., which he placed on the ground, whilst he
coolly ordered the gentlemen to prepare to take their departure, he
himself presently setting them the example.

"I'm certain sure the young leddy's tired," said he; "and that little
lassie there (pointing to Jessie) looks as pale and as wizened as an
old woman of seventy--the sooner they gets to sleep the better."

We followed the kindly hint, and Jessie and myself were soon fast
asleep in spite of the din close beside us. It was Saturday night, and
the store was full; but the Babel-like sounds disturbed us not, and we
neither of us woke till morning.

It was Sunday. The day was fine, and we strolled here and there,
wandering a good way from Gregory's store. As we returned, we passed
near the scene of the monster meeting of 1851. The following account of
it is so correct, that I cannot do better than transcribe it.

"The exceeding richness of the Mount Alexander diggings, and
extraordinary success of many of the miners, led the Government to
issue a proclamation, raising the licence from thirty shillings to
three pounds. As soon as these intentions became known, a public
meeting of all the miners was convened, and took place on the 15th of
December, 1851. This resolve of the Governor and Executive Council was
injudicious, since, in New South Wales, the Government proposed to
reduce the fee to 15s.; and among the miners in Victoria,
dissatisfaction was rife, on account of the apparent disregard by the
Government of the wants and wishes of the people engaged in the
gold diggings, and because of the absence of all police protection,
while there appeared to be no effort made to remedy this defect.
Indignation was, therefore, unequivocally expressed at the several
diggings' meetings which were held, and at which it was resolved to
hold a monster meeting. The 'Old Shepherd's Hut,' an out station of Dr.
Barker's, and very near the Commissioners' tent, was the scene chosen
for this display. For miles around work ceased, cradles were hushed,
and, the diggers, anxious to show their determination, assembled in
crowds, swarming from every creek, gully, hill, and dale, even from the
distant Bendigo, twenty miles away. They felt that if they tamely
allowed the Government to charge 3 pounds one month, the licensing fee
might be increased to 6 pounds the next; and by such a system of
oppression, the diggers' vocation would be suspended.

"It has been computed that from fifteen to twenty thousand persons were
on the ground during the time of the meeting. Hundreds, who came and
heard, gave place to the coming multitude, satisfied with having
attended to countenance the proceedings. The meeting ultimately
dispersed quietly, thereby disappointing the anticipations of those who
expected, perhaps even desired, a turbulent termination. The majority
determined to resist any attempt to enforce this measure, and to pay
NOTHING; but, happily, they were not reduced to this extremity, since
his Excellency wisely gave notice that no change would be made in the
amount demanded for licence."

The trees up which the diggers had climbed during the meeting are still
pointed out.

The "Old Shepherd's Hut" was standing. It seemed a most commodious
little building compared to the insecure shelter of' a digger's tent.
The sides of the hut were formed of slabs, which were made mostly from
the stringy bark,--a tree that splits easily--the roof was composed of
the bark from the same tree; the chimney was of stones mortared
together with mud. This is the general style of building for shepherds'
huts in the bush. As we passed it I could not but mentally contrast the
scene that took place there on the important day of the monster
meeting, to the deep tranquillity that must have reigned around
the spot for centuries before the discovery of gold drew multitudes to
the place.

The trees in this neighbourhood are mostly stringy bark; almost all are
peeled of their covering, as many diggers, particularly those who have
their families with them, keep much to one part, and think it,
therefore, no waste of time or labour to erect a hut, instead of living
in a comfortless tent.

On Monday morning we determined to pursue our travels, and meant that
day to pay a flying, visit to Fryer's Creek. It was a lovely morning,
and we set out in high spirits. A heavy rain during the night had well
laid the dust. On our way we took a peep at several flats and gullies,
many of which looked very picturesque, particularly one called Specimen
Gully, which was but thinly inhabited.

We had hardly reached Fryer's Creek itself when we saw a vast concourse
of people gathered together. Frank and my brother remained with me at a
little distance, whilst Octavius and William went to learn the occasion
of this commotion. It arose from an awful accident which had just
occurred.

Three brothers were working in a claim beside the stream, some way
apart from the other diggers. The heavy rain during the night had
raised the water, and the ground between the hole where they were
working and the Creek, had given way imperceptibly UNDERNEATH. One
brother, who was early in the hole at work, fancied that the water at
the bottom was gradually rising above his knees; he shouted to his
comrades, but unfortunately they had gone, one, one way, one, another,
in quest of something, and it was some minutes ere they returned.

Meanwhile the water in the hole was slowly but surely rising, and the
slippery sides which were several feet high defied him to extricate
himself. His cries for help became louder--he was heard, and his
brothers and some neighbours hastened to his assistance. Ropes were
procured after some further delay, and thrown to the unhappy man--but
it was too late. None dared approach very near, for the ground was like
a bog, and might at any moment give way beneath their feet; the water
was nearly level with the top of the hole, and all hope of saving him
was gone. The brothers had often been warned of the danger they
were running.

Shuddering at the thoughts of this awful death we turned away, but no
change of scene could dissipate it from our minds--the remembrance of
it haunted me for many a night.

Jessie seemed pleased to see us on our return--we had left her behind
with Gregory to his great delight--we abstained from mentioning before
her the fearful accident we had but witnessed.

That evening we wandered about Forest Creek. We had not gone far before
a digger with a pistol in his hand shot by us; he was followed by an
immense mob, hooting, yelling, and screaming, as only a mob at the
diggings can. It was in full pursuit, and we turned aside only in time
to prevent ourselves from being knocked down in the confusion.

"Stop him--stop him," was the cry. He was captured, and the cry changed
to, "String him up--string him up--it's useless taking him to the
police-office."

"What has he done?" asked my brother of a quiet by-stander.

"Shot a man in a quarrel at a grogshop."

"String him up--string him up--confront him with the body," vociferated
the mob.

At this moment the firmly-secured and well-guarded culprit passed by, to
be confronted with the dead body of his adversary. No sooner did he
come into his presence than the CI-DEVANT corpse found his feet,
"showed fight," and roared out, "Come on," with a most unghostlike
vehemence. The fury of the mob cooled down; the people thought the man
had been murdered, whereas the shot, fortunately for both, had glanced
over the forehead without doing any serious injury. Taking advantage of
this lull, the fugitive declared that the wounded man had been robbing
him. This turned the tables, and, inspired by the hootings of the now
indignant mob, the "dead man" took to his heels and disappeared.

The diggers in Pennyweight Flat, Nicholson's Gully, Lever Flat, Dirty
Dick's Gully, Gibson's Flat, at the mouth of Dingley Dell, and in
Dingley Dell itself, were tolerably contented with their gains,
although in many instances, the parties who were digging in the
centre of the gullies, or what is called "the slip," experienced
considerable trouble in bailing the water out of their holes.

Some of the names given to the spots about Forest Creek are anything
but euphonious. Dingley Dell is, however, an exception, and sounds
quite musical compared to Dirty Dick's Gully. The former name was given
to the place by a gentleman from Adelaide, and was suggested by the
perpetual tinkling of the bullock's bells, it being a favourite camping
place for bullock drivers, offering, as it did, an excellent supply of
both wood, water, and food for their cattle. From whom the latter
inelegant name originated I cannot precisely tell--but there are plenty
of "dirty Dicks" all over the diggings.

The current prices of this date at Forest Creek were as follows:
flour, 9 to 10 pounds per hundred-weight; sugar, 1s. 6d. a pound,
very scarce; tea, 3s.; rice, 1s.; coffee, 3s.; tobacco, 8s.; cheese,
3s.; butter, 4s.; honey, 3s. 6d.; candles, 1s. 6d; currants, 1s. 6d.,
very scarce; raisins, 1s. 6d.; figs, 2s. 6d.; salt, 1s. 6d. Picks, spades,
and tin dishes, 10s. each. Gold 64s. per ounce.

TUESDAY, 19.--Before breakfast we were busily employed in packing the
"swags" when Octavius suddenly dropped the strap he held in his hand
for that purpose, and darted into the store. Thinking that we had
omitted something which he went to fetch, we continued our work. When
everything was ready and the last strap in its place, we again thought
of our absent comrade, making all sorts of surmises regarding his
disappearance, when, just as Frank was going after him, in he walked,
accompanied by a stranger whom he introduced as his uncle. This
surprised us, as we were ignorant of his having any relatives in the
colonies. He then explained that a younger brother of his father's had
about eight years ago gone to South Australia, and that never having
heard of him for some years they had mourned him as dead. After many
adventures he had taken a fancy to the diggings, and had just come from
Melbourne with a dray full of goods. He went to Gregory's store to
dispose of them. Octavius had heard them in conversation
together, and had mistaken his uncle's for his father's voice. Hence
the precipitation of his exit. The uncle was a tall sunburnt man, who
looked well-inured to hardship and fatigue. He stayed and took
breakfast with us, and then having satisfactorily arranged his business
with Gregory, and emptied his dray, he obligingly offered to convey
Jessie and myself to Melbourne in it. Accordingly after dinner we all
started together.

Our new companion was a most agreeable person, and his knowledge of the
colonies was extensive. With anecdotes of the bush, the mines, and the
town, he made the journey pass most pleasantly. Before evening we
reached the Golden Point near Mount Alexander. This term of "Golden"
has been applied to a great many spots where the deposits have been
richer than, usual. There was a Golden Point at Ballarat, and when the
report of the Alexander diggings drew the people from there, they
carried the name with them, and applied it to this portion of the
mount. To the left of the Point, which was still full of labourers, was
the store of Mr. Black, with the Union-Jack flying above it. It is a
most noted store, and at one time when certain delicacies were
not to be had in Melbourne they were comparatively cheap here.

We passed by this busy spot and encamped at sunset at the foot of Mount
Alexander. It was a lovely evening and our eyes were feasted by a Most
glorious sight. All the trees of the forest gradually faded away in the
darkness, but beyond them, and through them were glimpses of the
granite-like walls of the mount, brilliantly shining in and reflecting
the last glowing rays of the setting sun. Some of the gorgeous scenes
of fairy-land seemed before us--we could have imagined that we were
approaching by night some illuminated, some enchanted castle.

That evening we sat late round our fire listening to the history which
the uncle of Octavius related of some of his adventures in South
Australia. The posts he had filled formed a curious medley of
occupations, and I almost forget the routine in which they followed one
another, but I will endeavour to relate his story as much as possible
in his own words.

"When I started from England, after having paid passage-money, &c., I
found myself with about 200 pounds ready money in my purse--it was all
I had to expect, and I determined to be very careful of it; but by a
young man of five-and-twenty these resolutions, like lady's promises,
are made to be broken. When I landed in Adelaide with my money in my
pocket--minus a few pounds I had lost at whist and cribbage on board
ship--I made my way to the best inn, where I stayed some days, and ran
up rather a longish bill. Then I wanted to see the country, which I
found impossible without a horse, so bought one, and rode about to the
various stations, where I was generally hospitably received, and thus
passed a few months very pleasantly, only my purse was running low. I
sold the horse, then my watch, and spent the money. When that was gone,
I thought of the letters of introduction I possessed. The first that
came to hand was directed to a Wesleyan minister. I called there,
looking as sanctimonious as I could. He heard my story, advised me to
go to chapel regularly, 'And for your temporal wants,' said he, 'the
Lord will provide.' I thanked him, and bowed myself off.

"My first act was to burn my packet of introductory letters, my
next was to engage myself to a stock-holder at 15s. a week and my
rations. He was going up to his station at once, and I accompanied him.
We travelled for about two hundred miles through a most beautiful
country before we reached his home. His house was, in my ideas, a
comical-looking affair--made of split logs of wood, with a bark roof,
and a barrel stuck on the top of the roof at one end by way of a
chimney-pot. His wife, a pale sickly little woman, seemed pleased to
see us, for she had been much alarmed by the natives, who were rather
numerous about the neighbourhood. There was only a young lad, and an
old shepherd and his wife upon the station, besides herself. Before I
had been there six weeks she died, and her new-born little baby died
too; there was not a doctor for miles, and the shepherd's wife was
worse than useless. I believe this often happens in the bush--it's not a
place for woman-folks.

"I was here eighteen months--it was a wild sort of life, and just suited
my fancy; but when I found I had some money to receive, I thought a
spree in town would be a nice change, so off I marched. My spree lasted
as long as my money, and then I went as barman to a
public-house at Clare, some way up the country--here I got better wages
and better board, and stopped about half-a-year. Then I turned brewer's
drayman, and delivered casks of good Australian ale about Adelaide for
30s. a week. The brewer failed, and I joined in a speculation with an
apple dealer to cart a lot up to the Kapunda copper mines. That paid
well. I stopped up there as overseer over four-and-twenty
bullock-drays. Well, winter came, and I had little to do, though I drew
my 30s. a week regularly enough, when the directors wanted a contract
for putting the small copper-dust into bags, and sewing them up. I
offered to do the job at 2d. a bag, and could get through a hundred and
fifty a day. How much is that? Oh! 12s. 6d. a-piece. I forgot to tell
you I'd a mate at the work. That was good earnings in those days; and
me and my mate, who was quite a lad, were making a pretty penny, when
some others offered to do them a halfpenny a bag cheaper. I did the
same, and we kept it to ourselves for about four weeks longer, when a
penny a bag was offered. There was competition for you! This roused
my bile--I threw it up altogether--and off to Adelaide again.
Soon spent all my cash, and went into a ship-chandler's office till
they failed; then was clerk to a butcher, and lost my situation for
throwing a quarter of his own mutton at him in a rage; and then I again
turned brewer's man. Whilst there I heard of the diggings--left the
brewer and his casks to look after themselves, and off on foot to
Ballarat.

"Here I found the holes averaging some thirty feet--which was a style of
hard work I didn't quite admire; so hearing of the greater facility of
the Alexander diggings, I went through Bully Rook Forest, and tried my
luck in the Jim Crow Ranges. This paid well; and I bought a dray, and
bring up goods to the stores, which I find easier work, and twice as
profitable as digging. There's my story; and little I thought when I
went into Gregory's store to-day, that I should find my curly-pated
nephew ready to hear it."

Next day we travelled on, and halted near Saw-pit Gully; it was early
in the afternoon, and we took a walk about this most interesting
locality. The earth was torn up everywhere--a few lucky hits
had sufficed to re-collect a good many diggers there, and they were
working vigorously. At dusk the labour ceased--the men returned to
their tents, and for the last time our ears were assailed by the
diggers' usual serenade. Imagine some hundreds of revolvers almost
instantaneously fired--the sound reverberating through the mighty
forests, and echoed far and near--again and again till the last faint
echo died away in the distance. Then a hundred blazing fires burst upon
the sight--around them gathered the rough miners themselves--their
sun-burnt, hair-covered faces illumined by the ruddy glare. Wild songs,
and still wilder bursts of laughter are heard; gradually the flames
sink and disappear, and an oppressive stillness follows (sleep rarely
refuses to visit the diggers' lowly couch), broken only by some
midnight carouser, as he vainly endeavours to find his tent. No fear of
a "peeler" taking him off to a police-station, or of being brought
before a magistrate next morning, and "fined five shillings for being
drunk."

Early on Tuesday morning I gave a parting look to the diggings--our dray
went slowly onwards--a slight turn in the road, and the last
tent has vanished from my sight. "Never," thought I, "shall I look on
such a scene again!"




Chapter XII.



RETURN TO MELBOURNE


Before the evening of Wednesday the 20th, we passed through Kyneton,
and found ourselves in the little village of Carlshrue, where we passed
the night. Here is a police-station, a blacksmith's, a few stores and
some cottages, in one of which we obtained a comfortable supper and
beds. A lovely view greeted us at sunrise. Behind us were still
towering the lofty ranges of Mount Alexander, before us was Mount
Macedon and the Black Forest. This mountain, which forms one of what is
called the Macedon range, is to be seen many miles distant, and on a
clear, sunny day, the purple sides of Mount Macedon, which
stands aloof as it were, from the range itself, are distinctly visible
from the flag-staff at Melbourne.

We had intended to have stopped for the night in Kyneton, but the
charges there were so enormous that we preferred pushing on and taking
our chance as to the accommodation Carlshrue could afford, nor did we
repent the so doing.

The following are the Kyneton prices. A meal or bed--both bad--4s; a
night's stabling, one pound ten shillings per horse; hay at the rate of
9d. a pound; this is the most exorbitant charge of all.

Hay was somewhere about 20 pounds a ton in Melbourne. The carriage of it
to Kyneton, now that the fine weather was setting in, would not exceed 8
pounds a ton at the outside, which would come to 28 pounds. The purchaser,
by selling it at Kyneton at the rate of 9d. a pound, or 75 pounds per ton,
cleared a profit of 47 pounds--NOT QUITE 200 PER CENT. If THIS is not
fortune-making, I should like to know what is. It beats the diggings
hollow.

Next morning we looked our last at "sweet Carlshrue," and
having crossed the Five Mile Creek, camped for our mid-day meal beside
the Black Forest. Here a slight discussion arose, as to whether it
would be more advisable to proceed on our journey and camp in the Black
Forest that night, or whether we should remain where we were outside,
and recommence our journey in good time the next morning so as to get
through this most uncomfortable portion of our travels in one day.
Frank and Octavius were for the latter plan, as the best and safest,
but the rest (thinking that, having once travelled through it without
encountering any thing resembling a bushranger, they might safely do so
again) protested against wasting time, and were for entering those dark
shades without further delay. The uncle of Octavius whom, in future,
for the sake of convenience, I shall call Mr. L----, was also of this
mind, and as he was in some sort our leader during the journey, his
advice decided the matter. Danger to him was only a necessary
excitement. He was naturally fearless, and his merry laugh and gay joke
at the expense of the bushranger fearing party gradually dissipated the
unaccountable presentiment of danger which I for one had in no
small degree experienced.

On we went, up hill and down dale, sometimes coming to a more open
piece of ground, but more generally threading our way amid a very maze
of trees, with trunks all black as the ground itself, whilst the dingy
foliage and the few rays of sunshine that lit up those dark, deep
glades served only to heighten the gloominess around.

After walking for about six miles--I preferred that mode of getting
along to the joltings of the dray--we all felt disposed to rest
ourselves. We selected a spot where the trees were less thickly
clustered, and taking the horses out of the dray, tethered them by
strong ropes to some trees near. The dray itself was turned up, and a
blanket thrown over the up-raised shafts formed a most complete and
cosy little tent.

A fire was next kindled, and a kettle full of water (with the tea in
it!) was placed on to boil, some home-made bread, brought from
Carlshrue, was placed upon the ground, and some chops were toasted on
the ends of sticks, which are usually the impromptu
toasting-forks of the bush. The old tin plates and pannicans, not quite
so bright as once upon a time, but showing, despite sundry bruises and
scratches, that they had seen better days, were placed upon the
tea-table, which of course was the ground. Two or three knives and
forks were on general service, and wandered about from hand to hand as
occasion required. Altogether it was a merry, sociable party, and I
think I enjoyed that supper better than any I ever tasted before or
since.

"CHACUN A SON GOUT," many a one will say.

The pleasantest moments must come to an end, and so did these. After
having sat up later than usual, Jessie and I retired to our gipsy tent,
leaving our guardian diggers smoking round the fire. They meant to keep
watches during the night to prevent a surprise.

FRIDAY.--We were comfortably seated at our breakfast, discussing a
hundred subjects besides the food before us, when a shrill "coo-ey"
burst through the air; "coo-ey"--"coo-ey" again and again, till the very
trees seemed to echo back the sound. We started to our feet, and,
as if wondering what would come next, looked blankly at each
other, and again the "coo-ey," more energetic still, rang in our ears.
This is the call of the bush, it requires some little skill and
practice, and when given well can be heard a great way off. In such a
place as the Black Forest it could only proceed from some one who had
lost their way, or be a signal of distress from some party in absolute
danger. We again looked from one to the other--it bewildered us; and
again the cry, only more plaintive than before, came to us.
Simultaneously they seized their pistols, and started in the direction
whence the sounds proceeded. They were all too true Englishmen to hear
a fellow-creature in peril and not hasten to their succour.

Jessie and myself could not remain behind alone--it was impossible; we
followed at a little distance, just keeping our comrades in sight. At
last they came to a halt, not knowing where to turn, and we joined
them. Frank gave a "coo-ey," and in about the space of a minute the
words "help, help,--come, come," in scarcely, audible sounds, answered
to the call. We penetrated about thirty yards farther, and a few low
groans directed us to a spot more obscure, if possible, than
the rest. There, firmly bound to two trees close together, were two
men. A thick cord was passed round and round their bodies, arms, and
legs, so as to leave no limb at liberty. They seemed faint and
exhausted at having called so long for help.

It was the work of a moment for our party to fling down their pistols,
take out knives and tomahawks, and commence the work of releasing them
from their bonds. But the cords were knotted and thick, and there
seemed no little labour in accomplishing it. They were also retarded by
the small quantity of light, for, as I said before, it was a dark and
secluded spot. At length one man was released, and so faint and
exhausted was he, from the effects of whatever ill-usage he had
suffered, that, being a tall, powerfully made man, it required the
united strength of both Frank and Mr. L---- to prevent his falling to
the ground.

Jessie and myself were standing a little apart in the shade; we seemed
as if spell-bound by the incident, and incapable of rendering any
assistance.

The second was soon set at liberty, and no sooner did he feel
his hands and feet free from the cords than he gave a loud, shrill
"coo-ey."

A shriek burst from Jessie's lips as, immediately the cry was uttered,
and before any one could, recover from the bewilderment it occasioned,
four well-armed men sprang upon our startled party.

Taken thus at disadvantage, unarmed, their very knives flung down in
their eagerness to untwist the cords, they were soon overpowered. The
wretch who had been reclining in Frank's arms quickly found his feet,
and, ere Frank could recover from his surprise, one heavy blow flung
him to the ground; whilst the other twined his powerful arms round Mr.
L----, and, after a short but sharp struggle, in which he was assisted
by a fellow-villain, succeeded in mastering him.

It was a fearful sight, and I can hardly describe my feelings as I
witnessed it. My brain seemed on fire, the trees appeared to reel
around me, when a cold touch acted as a sudden restorative, and almost
forced a scream from my lips. It was Jessie's hand, cold as marble,
touching mine. We spoke together in a low whisper, and both
seemed inspired by the same thoughts, the same hope.

"I saw a little hill as we came here," said Jessie; "let's try and find
it and look out for help."

I instinctively followed her, and stealthily creeping along, we gained
a small rise of ground which commanded a more extended view than most
places in the Black Forest, and, but for the thickness of the trees, we
could have seen our own camping-place and the part where the ambuscade
had been laid. From sounds of the voices, we could tell that the
ruffians were leading their prisoners to the spot where we had passed
the night, and the most fearful oaths and imprecations could ever and
anon be heard. Well might our hearts beat with apprehension, for it was
known that when disappointed in obtaining the gold they expected, they
vented their rage in torturing their unfortunate victims.

Meanwhile Jessie seemed listening intently. The time she had spent in
the bush and at the diggings had wonderfully refined her sense of
hearing. Suddenly she gave a shrill "coo-ey." The moment after a shot
was fired in the direction of our late camp. Jessie turned even
paler, but recovering herself, "coo-ey" after "coo-ey" made the echoes
ring. I joined my feeble, efforts to hers; but she was evidently well
used to this peculiar call. On a fine still day, this cry will reach
for full three miles, and we counted upon this fact for obtaining some
assistance.

"Help is coming," said Jessie, in a low voice, and once more with
increasing strength she gave the call.

Footsteps approached nearer and nearer. I looked up, almost expecting
to see those villainous countenances again.

"Women in danger!" shouted a manly voice, and several stalwart figures
bounded to our side.

"Follow, follow!" cried Jessie, rushing forwards. I scarcely remember
everything that occurred, for I was dizzy with excess of pleasure.
There was a short scuffle, shots were fired at retreating bushrangers,
and we saw our friends safe and free.

The whole, matter was then related to our preservers--for such they
were--and I then learnt that when the bushrangers had marched
off our party to the camping-place, they proceeded to overhaul their
pockets, and then bound them securely to some trees, whilst one stood
ready with a pistol to shoot the first that should call for help, and
the others looked over the plunder. This was little enough, for our
travelling money, which was notes, was kept--strange treasury--in the
lining of the body of my dress, and here too were the gold receipts
from the Escort Office. Every night I took out about sufficient to
defray the day's expenses, and this was generally given into Frank's
hands.

Enraged and disappointed, the villains used most frightful language,
accompanied by threats of violence; and the one on guard, irritated
beyond his powers of endurance, fired the pistol in the direction of
William's head. At this moment Jessie's first "coo-ey" was heard: this
startled him, and the shot, from the aim of the pistol being
disarranged, left him unhurt.

"It's that d----d child," muttered one, with a few, additional oaths;
"we'll wring her neck when we've secured the plunder."

One of the ruffians now attempted more persuasive measures, and
addressing Mr. L----, whom I suppose he considered the leader, expended
his powers of persuasion much in the following manner.

"You sees, mate, we risks our lives to get your gold, and have it we
will. Some you've got somewhere or another, for you havn't none on you
got no paper from the Escort--you planted it last night, eh? Jist show
us where, and you shan't be touched at all, nor that little wretch
yonder, what keeps screeching so; but if you don't--" and here his
natural ferocity mastered him, and he wound up with a volley of curses,
in the midst of which our rescuers rushed upon them.

When we came to talk the whole matter over calmly and quietly, no doubt
was left upon our minds, as to the premeditation of the whole affair.
But for the watch kept, the attack would most probably have been made
during the night.

Our timely friends were a party of successful diggers returning, from
work. They too had passed the night in the Black Forest--providently
not very far from us. They accepted our thanks in an off-hand sort of
way, only replying--which was certainly true--"that we would have
done the same for them." It was in endeavouring to assist assumed
sufferers that our party fell into the ambuscade laid for them.

They waited whilst we got the dray and horses ready, and we all
journeyed on together, till the Black Forest was far behind us. We saw
no more of the bushrangers, and encamped that night a few miles beyond
the "Bush Inn." At this inn we parted with our gallant friends. They
were of the jovial sort, and having plenty of gold, were determined on
a spree. We never met them again.

On Saturday we travelled as far as the "Deep Creek Inn." Some distance
before reaching that place, we passed two rival coffee-shops on the
road. We stopped at the first, to know if they had any uncooked or cold
meat to sell, for our provisions were running low.

"Havn't none," said the woman, shaking her head. Then looking hard at
William, and judging from his good-humoured face, that he was a likely
one to do what she wanted, she said to him. "Now, Sir, I'm agoing to ax
a favour of you, and that is to go a little farther down the
road, to the other coffee-tent, and buy for me as much meat as they'll
let you have. They's got plenty, and I've none; and they knows I'll
lose custom by it, so you'll not get it if they twigs (ANGLICE guesses)
you comes from me. You understand, Sir," and she put sovereign into his
hand to pay for it.

Laughing at the comicality of the request, and the thoroughly colonial
coolness of making it, William set off, and presently returned with
nearly half a sheep hanging over his shoulders, and a large joint in
one hand.

"Bless me, what luck!" exclaimed the delighted woman, and loud and
profuse were her thanks. She wanted to cook us a good dinner off the
meat gratis; but this we steadily refused and purchasing enough for the
present, we put our drays again into motion, and a little while after
kindled a fire, and were our own cooks as usual. That night we camped
beside the Deep Creek, about a mile from the "Deep Creek Inn." The
route we were now taking was different to the one we had travelled
going up--it was much more direct.

We remained all Sunday beside the creek, and the day passed quietly and
pleasantly.

On Monday the 25th we were again in motion. We passed the well known
inn of Tulip Wright's. How great a change those few weeks had made!
Winter had given place to summer, for Australia knows no spring. We
walked along the beautiful road to Flemington, gave a look at the
flagstaff and cemetery, turned into Great Bourke Street, halted at the
Post-office, found several letters, and finally stopped opposite the
"Duke of York Hotel," where we dined.

I shall leave myself most comfortably located here, whilst I devote a
chapter or two to other diggings.




Chapter XIII.



BALLARAT


Ballarat is situated about forty-five miles from Geelong, and
seventy-five nearly west of Melbourne. This was the first discovered
goldfield of any extent in Victoria, and was made known on the 8th of
September, 1851. The rush from Geelong was immense. Shops, stores,
trades, all and everything was deserted; and the press very truly
declared that "Geelong was mad--stark, staring gold-mad." During the
month of September five hundred and thirty-two licences were taken out;
in the month following the number increased to two thousand two hundred
and sixty one!

The usual road to Ballarat is by the Adelaide overland route on the
Gambier Road; but the most preferable is per Geelong. The former route
leads over the Keilor Plains, and through Bacchus Marsh, crossing the
Werribee River in two places. Mount Buninyong then appears in sight of
the well-pleased traveller, and Ballarat is soon reached.

The route VIA Geelong is much quicker, as part of the way is generally
performed by steam at the rate of one pound a-piece. Those who wish to
save their money go to Geelong by land. After leaving Flemington, and
passing the Benevolent Asylum, the Deep Creek is crossed by means of a
punt, and you then come to a dreary waste of land, called Iett's Flat.
Beyond is a steep rise and a barren plain, hardly fit to graze sheep
upon, and at about twenty miles from Melbourne you come to the first
halting house. Some narrow but rapid creeks must be got over, and for
seven miles further you wander along over a dreary sheep-run till
stopped by the Broken River, which derives its name partly from the
nature of its rocky bed, and partly from the native name which has a
similar sound

This creek is the most steep, rapid, and dangerous on the road, having
no bridge and no properly defined crossing-place or ford, except the
natural rocks about. The bottom is of red sand-stone and rocks of the
same description abut from the sides of the creek, and appear to abound
in the neighbourhood; and all along the plains here and there are
large fragments of sand and lime-stone rocks. Two hundred yards from
the creek is a neat inn after the English style, with a large
sitting-room, a tap, a bar, and a coffee-room. The bed-rooms are so
arranged as to separate nobs from snobs--an arrangement rather
inconsistent in a democratic colony. The inn also affords good stabling
and high charges. Up to this distance on our road there is a scarcity
of wood and springs of water.

We now pass two or three huts, and for twenty miles see nothing to
please the eye, for it is a dead, flat sheep-walk. About seven miles on
the Melbourne side of Geelong, the country assumes a more cheering
appearance--homesteads, gardens, and farms spring up--the roads improve,
and the timber is plentiful and large, consisting of shea-oaks, wattle,
stringy bark, and peppermints. Many of the houses are of a good
size, and chiefly built of stone, some are of wood, and very few of
brick.

Geelong, which is divided into north and south, is bounded by the
Barwin, a river navigable from the bay to the town, and might be
extended further; beautiful valleys well wooded lie beyond. Between the
two townships a park has been reserved, though not yet enclosed; the
timber in it, which is large--consisting principally of white gum and
stringy bark--is not allowed to be cut or injured. There are several
good inns, a court-house, police-station, and corporation offices.
There is also a neat church in the early pointed style, with a
parsonage and schools in the Elizabethan; all are of dark lime-stone,
having a very gloomy appearance, the stones being unworked, except near
the windows; the porches alone slightly ornamented. The road and
pavement are good in the chief streets; there is a large square with a
conduit, which is supplied by an engine from the Barwin. The shops are
large and well furnished, a great many houses are three stories high,
most are two, and very few one. The best part of town is about one
hundred feet above the river. A large timber bridge over the
Ballarat road was washed down last winter. The town is governed by a
mayor and corporation. There is a city and mounted police force, and a
neat police-court. A large and good race-course is situated about
three miles from the town.

As regards scenery, Geelong is far superior to Melbourne, the streets
are better, and so is the society of the place; none of the ruffian
gangs and drunken mobs as seen in Victoria's chief city. There are
various, chapels, schools, markets, banks, and a small gaol. The
harbour is sheltered, but not safe for strangers, as the shoals are
numerous. Geelong is surrounded by little townships. Irish Town, Little
Scotland, and Little London are the principal and to show how
completely the diggings drained both towns and villages of their male
inhabitants, I need only mention that six days after the discovery of
Ballarat, there was only one man left in Little Scotland, and he was a
cripple, compelled NOLENS VOLENS to remain behind.

The road from Geelong to Ballarat is well marked out, so often has it
been trodden; and there are some good inns on the way-side for
the comfort of travellers. On horseback you can go from the town to the
diggings in six or eight hours.

Ballarat is a barren place, the ground is interspersed with rocky
fragments, the creek is small, and good water is rather scarce. In
summer it almost amounts to a drought, and what there is then is
generally brackish or stagnatic. It is necessary never to drink
stagnant water, or that found in holes, without boiling, unless there
are frogs in it, then the water is good; but the diggers usually boil
the water, and a drop of brandy, if they can get it. In passing through
the plains you are sure of finding water near the surface (or by
seeking a few inches) wherever the tea tree grows.

The chief object at the Ballarat diggings is the Commissioners' tent,
which includes the Post-office. There are good police quarters now. The
old lock-up was rather of the primitive order, being the stump of an
old tree, to which the the prisoners were attached by sundry chains,
the handcuff being round one wrist and through a link of the chain. I
believe there is a tent for their accommodation. There are
several doctors about, who, as usual, drive a rare trade.

It is almost impossible to describe accurately the geological features
of the gold diggings at Ballarat. Some of the surface-washing is good,
and sometimes it is only requisite to sink a few feet, perhaps only a
few inches, before finding the ochre-coloured earth (impregnated with
mica and mixed with quartzy fragments), which, when washed, pays
exceedingly well. But more frequently a deep shaft has to be sunk.

Of course the depth of the shafts varies considerably; some are sixty
or even eighty, and some are only ten feet deep. Sometimes after heavy
rains, when the surface soil has been washed from the sides of the
hills, the mica layer is similarly washed down to the valleys and lies
on the original surface-soil. This constitutes the true washing stuff
of the diggings. Often when a man has--to use a digger's
phrase--"bottomed his hole," (that is, cut through the rocky strata, and
arrived at the gold layer), he will find stray indications, but nothing
remunerative, and perchance the very next hole may be the most
profitable on the diggings. Whether there is any geological
rule to be guided by has yet to be proved, at present no old digger
will ever sink below the mica soil, or leave his hole until be arrives
at it, even if he sinks to forty feet. So, therefore, it may be taken
as a general rule, wherever the diggings may be, either in Victoria,
New South Wales, or South Australia, that gold in "working" quantities
lies only where there is found quartz or mica.

Ballarat has had the honour of producing the largest masses of gold yet
discovered. These masses were all excavated from one part of the diggings,
known as Canadian Gully, and were taken out of a bed of quartz, at the
depths of from fifty to sixty-five feet below the surface. The deep
indentures of the nuggets were filled with the quartz. The largest of
these masses weighed one hundred and thirty-four pounds, of which it
was calculated that fully one hundred and twenty-six pounds consisted
of solid gold!

About seven miles to the north of Ballarat, some new diggings called
the Eureka have been discovered, where it appears that, although there
are no immense prizes, there are few blanks, and every one doing well!

In describing the road from Melbourne to Geelong, I have made
mention of the Broken River. A few weeks after my arrival in the
colonies this river was the scene of a sad tragedy.

I give the tale, much in the same words as it was given to me, because
it was one out of many somewhat similar, and may serve to show the
state of morality in Melbourne.

The names of the parties are, of course, entirely fictitious.

        *  *  *  *  *

Prettiest among the pretty girls that stood upon the deck as the anchor
of the Government immigrant ship 'Downshire' fell into Hobson's Bay, in
August, 1851, was Mary H----, the heroine of my story. No regret
mingled with the satisfaction that beamed from her large dark eyes, as
their gaze fell on the shores of her new country, for her orphan
brother, the only relative she had left in their own dear Emerald Isle,
was even then preparing to follow her. Nor could she feel sad and
lonely whilst the rich Irish brogue, from a subdued but manly and
well-loved voice, fell softly on her ear, and the gentle
pressure of her hand continually reminded her that she was not alone.

Shipboard is a rare place for match-making, and, somehow or another,
Henry Stephens had contrived to steal away the heart of the 'Downshire'
belle. Prudence, however, compelled our young people to postpone their
marriage, and whilst the good housewife qualities of the one readily
procured her a situation in a highly respectable family in Melbourne,
Henry obtained an appointment in the police force of the same town.

Their united savings soon mounted up, and in a few months the banns
were published, and Christmas-Day fixed on for the wedding. Mary, at
her lover's express desire, quitted her mistress's family to reside
with a widow, a distant relative of his own, from whose house she was
to be married. Delightful to the young people was this short period of
leisure and uninterrupted intercourse, for the gold mania was now
beginning to tell upon the excited imaginations of all, and Henry had
already thrown up his situation; and it was settled their wedding trip
should be to the golden gullies round Mount Buninyong.

And now let me hasten over this portion of my narrative. It is sad to
dwell upon the history of human frailty, or to relate the oft-told tale
of passion and villainy triumphant over virtue. A few days before
Christmas, when the marriage ceremony was to be performed, they
unfortunately spent one evening together alone, and he left her--ruined.
Repentance followed sin, and the intervening time was passed by Mary in
a state of the greatest mental anguish. With what trembling eagerness
did she now look forward to the day which should make her his lawful
wife.

It arrived. Mary and the friends of both stood beside the altar, whilst
he, who should have been there to redeem his pledge and save his victim
from open ruin and disgrace, was far away on the road to Ballarat.

To describe her agony would be impossible. Day after day, week after
week, and no tidings from him came; conscience too acutely accounting
to her for his faithlessness. Then the horrible truth forced itself
upon her, that its consequences would soon too plainly declare her sin
before the world; that upon her innocent offspring would fall a portion
of its mother's shame.

Thus six months stole sorrowfully away, and as yet none had even
conjectured the deep cause she had for misery. Her brother's
non-arrival was also an unceasing source of anxiety, and almost daily
might she have been seen at the Melbourne Post-office, each time to
return more disappointed than before. At length the oft-repeated
inquiry was answered in the affirmative, and eagerly she tore open the
long-anticipated letter. It told her of an unexpected sum of money that
had come into his hands--to them a small fortune--which had detained him
in Ireland. This was read and almost immediately forgotten, as she
learnt that he was arrived in Melbourne, and that only a few streets
now separated them.

She raised her face, flushed and radiant with joyful excitement--her
eyes fell upon him who had so cruelly injured her. The scream that
burst from her lips brought him involuntarily to her side. What will
not a woman forgive where once her heart has been touched--in the double
joy of the moment the past was almost forgotten--together they re-read
the welcome letter, and again he wooed her for his bride. She
consented, and he himself led her to her brother, confessed
their mutual fault, and second preparations for an immediate marriage
were hurriedly made.

Once more at the altar of St. Peter's stood the bridal party, and again
at the appointed hour Stephens was far gone on his second expedition to
the diggings, after having increased (if that was possible) his
previous villainy, by borrowing a large portion of the money before
mentioned from his intended brother-in-law. It was pretty evident that
the prospect of doing this had influenced him in his apparently
honourable desire to atone to the poor girl, who, completely prostrated
by this second blow, was laid on the bed of sickness.

For some weeks she continued thus and her own sufferings were increased
by he sight of her brother's fury, as, on her partial recovery, he
quitted her in search of her seducer.

During his absence Mary became a mother, and the little one that
nestled in her bosom, made her half forgetful of her sorrows, and at
times ready to embrace the delusive hope that some slight happiness in
life was in store for her. But her bitter cup was not yet drained. Day
by day, hour by hour, her little one pined away, until one
dreary night she held within her arms only its tiny corpse.

Not one sound of grief--not an outward sign to show how deeply the heart
was touched--escaped her. The busy neighbours left her for awhile, glad
though amazed at her wondrous calmness; when they returned to finish
their preparations for committing the child to its last resting-place,
the mother and her infant had disappeared.

Carrying the lifeless burden closely pressed against her bosom, as
though the pelting rain and chilling air could harm it now, Mary
rapidly left the town where she had experienced so much misery,
on--on--towards Geelong, the route her seducer and his pursuer had
taken--on--across Iett's Flat, until at length, weak and exhausted, she
sank down on the barren plains beyond.

Next morning the early dawn found her still plodding her weary way--her
only refreshment being a dry crust and some water obtained at an
halting-house on the road; and many a passer-by, attracted by the
wildness of her eyes, her eager manner, and disordered dress, cast
after her a curious wondering look. But she heeded them
not--on--on she pursued her course towards the Broken River.

Here she paused. The heavy winter rains had swollen the waters, which
swept along, dashing over the irregular pieces of rock that formed the
only means of crossing over. But danger was as nothing to her now--the
first few steps were taken--the rapid stream was rushing wildly round
her--a sensation, of giddiness and exhaustion made her limbs tremble--her
footing slipped on the wet and slimy stone--in another moment the
ruthless waters carried her away.

The morrow came, and the sun shone brightly upon the still swollen and
rapid river. Two men stood beside it, both too annoyed at this
impediment to their return to Melbourne to be in the slightest degree
aware of their proximity to one another. A bonnet caught by a
projecting fragment of rock simultaneously attracted their attention:
both moved towards the spot, and thus brought into closer contact they
recognized each other. Deadly foes though they were, not a word passed
between them, and silently they dragged the body of the unhappy
girl to land. In her cold and tightened grasp still lay the child. As
they stood gazing on those injured ones, within one breast remorse and
shame, in the other, hatred and revenge, were raging violently.

Each step on the road to Ballarat had increased her brother's desire
for vengeance, and still further was this heightened on discovering
that Stephens had already left the diggings to return to town. This
disappointment maddened him; his whole energy was flung into tracing
his foe, and in this he had succeeded so closely, that unknown to
either, both had slept beneath the same roof at the inn beside the
Broken River.

The voices of some of the loungers there, who were coming down to the
Creek to see what mischief had been done during the night, aroused him.
He glanced upon his enemy, who pale and trembling, stood gazing on the
wreck that he had made. Revenge at last was in his hands--not a moment
was to be lost--with the yell of a maniac he sprang upon the powerless
and conscious-stricken man--seized him in his arms rushed to the
river--and ere any could interpose, both had found a grave where but a
few minutes before the bodies of Mary and her infant had reposed.




Chapter XIV.



NEW SOUTH WALES


About seventy years ago a small colony of convicts first made the
forests ring with the blows of the axe, and a few tents were erected
where Sydney now stands. The tents, and they who dwelt beneath them,
have long since disappeared, and instead we have one of the finest
cities that our colonial empire ever produced.

The streets in Sydney are, as in Melbourne, built at right angles
with one another; they are macadamized, well lighted with gas, and
perambulated by a number of policemen during the night. Some of
the shops almost rival those of London, and the public buildings are
good and numerous. There is a custom-house, a treasury, police-office,
college, benevolent asylum, banks, barracks, hospitals, libraries,
churches, chapels, a synagogue, museum, club-house, theatre, and many
splendid hotels, of which the largest is, I think the "Royal Hotel," in
George Street, built at the cost of 30,000 pounds.

Hyde Park is close at hand, with un-numbered public walks, and a
botanical garden, the favourite resort of all classes.

In the neighbourhood of Sydney are some good oyster-beds, and many are
the picnics got up for the purpose of visiting them. The oysters cling
to the rocks, and great numbers are easily obtained.

The distance from Sydney to Melbourne, by the overland road, is about
six hundred miles; but the steamers, which are constantly plying,
afford a more comfortable mode of transit.

The gold diggings of New South Wales are so well known as to
require but a cursory notice. The first official notification of the
fact of gold having been discovered bears date, May 22, 1851, and is
contained in a despatch from the Governor to Earl Grey. In it he
announced the existence of a gold field to the westward of Bathurst,
about one hundred and fifty miles from Sydney. At the same time, he
added his supposition that the gold sent for inspection was Califorian.

Mr Stutchbury, the geological surveyor, quickly undeceived his
Excellency. He wrote from Hill Creek reporting that four hundred
persons were hard at work, and that the gold existed not only in the
creek but beyond it. The following postscript was added to his letter:
"Excuse this being written in pencil, as there is no ink in this city
of Ophir." And this appropriate name has ever since been retained.

The natural consequences of this discovery was the flocking of hundreds
of the inhabitants of Sydney to Bathurst. Sober people began to be
alarmed at this complete BOULEVERSEMENT of business and
tranquillity. For the sake of order the Governor attempted to put a
stop to the increasing desertion of the capital by proclaiming that the
gold-fields were the prerogative of the Crown, and threatening
gold-diggers with prosecution. It was all in vain. The glitterings of
the precious metal were more attractive than the threats of the
Governor were otherwise. The people laughed good-humoured at the
proclamation, and only flocked in greater numbers to the auriferous
spot.

Government now took a wiser course, and finding it impossible to stem
the torrent, determined to turn the eagerness of the multitude to some
account. A licence-fee of 30s., or half an ounce of gold, per month was
imposed, which, with few exceptions, has always been cheerfully paid.

The Turon diggings soon followed those of Bathurst. This river flows
into the Macquarie after a course of a hundred miles. Along the entire
length auriferous discoveries are constantly being made, and it bids
fair to last for many years to come. The gold is not found, as many
erroneously suppose, so much among the sand as by digging in the soil.
It also exists in paying quantities on the shores and in the rive flows
of the Macquarie, the Abercrombie, and Belubula rivers. Major's Creek,
too, is a favourite locality, and was first made known by a prospecting
woman.

According to Mr. Stutchbury's report, he found gold ALMOST WHEREVER HE
TRIED FOR IT, and whilst traversing the Macquarie from Walgumballa to
the Turon, he found it at EVERY place he tried. Surely Midas must, once
upon a time, have taken a pleasure-trip to Australia!

The delirium of the Sydney gold-fever reached its height when it became
publicly known that a piece of one hundred and six pounds weight had
been disembowelled from the earth, at one time. This immense quantity
was the discovery of a native, who, being excited by the universal
theme of conversation, provided himself with a tomahawk, and explored
the country adjacent to his employer's land. He was attracted
by a glittering yellow substance on the surface of a block of quartz.
With his tomahawk he broke off a piece, which he carried home to his
master, Dr. Kerr, of Wallawa. Not being able to move the mass
conveniently, Dr. Kerr broke it into small fragments. The place where
it was found is at the commencement of an undulating table-land, very
fertile, and near to a never-failing supply of water in the Murroo
Creek. It is distant about fifty miles from Bathurst, thirty from
Wellington, and twenty from the nearest point of the Macquarie river.

Dr. Kerr presented the native and his brother with two flocks of sheep,
two saddle-horses, a quantity of rations, a team of bullocks, and some
land.

About twenty yards from the spot where this mass was found, a piece of
gold called the "Brennan Nugget" was soon after discovered. It weighed
three hundred and thirty-six ounces, and was sold in Sydney for more
than 1,100 pounds.

But it would be useless to enter into fuller particulars of the
diggings of New South Wales. Panoramas, newspapers, and serials have
made them familiar to all.




Chapter XV.



SOUTH AUSTRALIA


Adelaide, the capital of South Australia, was the last formed of the
three sister colonies. In 1834 an act of colonization was obtained; and
land, both in town and country, sold rapidly. The colonists, however,
were most unfortunately more engaged in speculating with the land, than
grazing upon or tilling it; and the consequence was, that in a few
years the South Australians were only saved from a famine by the
unexpected arrival overland of herds and flocks from Victoria. As it
was, horses and cows of a very indifferent kind were sold for
more than a hundred pounds a-piece, and sheep for five pounds a head.

The discovery of the copper mines alone saved the country from ruin.
The first was the Kapunda. It was accidentally discovered by a
shepherd, who picked up a piece on the surface of the ground, and
showed it to his master. Pieces of copper ore may even now be found in
the same way.

Next followed the far-famed Burra-Burra. In the latter mine there is a
great quantity of malachite, which, when smelted, gives copper at an
average of eighty-five per cent.

South Australia possesses the finest river in Australia--namely, the
Murray, on which steamers will soon ply as far as five hundred miles up
the country. On either side of this river is a thick and dry
scrub--sometimes ten, sometimes thirty miles wide. In this scrub, manna
is not unfrequently found, to the great delight of the natives, who are
very fond of it. It is of a very excellent description, and in colour
has a slight tendency to pink.

Adelaide itself is a well-laid out town. The streets are built in the
same manner as in Sydney and Melbourne; but those in Adelaide are much
wider. Many of the buildings and warehouses are highly creditable,
particularly when we take the juvenile age of the colony into
consideration.

Adelaide has never yet been "a transportation colony," and the society
there is usually considered more RECHERCHE than in any other city in
Australia. The climate is very good, and the vine flourishes as in the
south of France. The principal export of South Australia is copper, to
which may be added some wool and tallow.

The roads about are excellent, and the small farms in the neighbourhood
are more in the English style than one could expect to meet with so
many thousand miles away from home.

The overland route from Adelaide to Melbourne is about four hundred
miles in length. In summer the road is pretty good, but in winter, a
lake or swamp of twenty miles extent has to be waded through.

The scrub about South Australia is very thick, and any one may easily
lose themselves in it. This has in fact often been the case, and a
fearful instance of it occurred some few years ago. A young lady--the
daughter of a gentleman residing near Adelaide--started out one Sunday
afternoon with a book as her companion. Evening came, and she did not
return, which alarmed her family, and search was made far and near--but
in vain. On the fourth day, they at length discovered her lying dead at
the foot of a tree. The pages of her book were covered with sentences,
pricked in with a pin, expressive of her sufferings and of her
unavailing efforts to retrace her steps. She was only three miles from
her father's house when she sank down to die of hunger, thirst, and
exhaustion; and probably during the whole time of her wanderings had
never exceeded that distance from her home.

The Adelaide gold-diggings began to excite attention in the months of
August and September, 1852. In October the following report was made:


"Camp, Echunga, Gold-Fields,
"October 2, 1852.

"Sir,

"I have the honour to state for the information of his Excellency the
Lieutenant-Governor, that since my last report sixty licences have been
issued, making a total of three hundred and fifty-six. * * * * Many
families of respectability have arrived, and are now living in
comfortable and commodious tents. The presence of well-dressed women
and children gives to the gold-fields, apparently distinguished for
decorum, security and respectability.

"From the feeling of greater security and comfort, combined with
cheapness of living, all classes of diggers are unanimous in their
preference of this place to Victoria. * * * *

"The nugget of gold which I have forwarded for his Excellency's
inspection, weighing about an ounce and a half, was found about seven
feet below the surface.* * * *

"There are some few amongst the lately arrived who expressed
dissatisfaction with the result of their labours and
observations, while others, who have been working for the last month,
have promptly renewed their expired licences.

(Signed) "A. J. MURRAY,
"Assistant Gold Commissioner.
"The Hon. the Colonial Secretary."


In the month of October several pieces of gold, weighing each half an
ounce and upwards, were found, and a few of the holes that had been
abandoned by inexperienced hands, when taken possession of by old
diggers on the Turon or the Bendigo, were found to contain good washing
stuff. The diggings were well supplied with food of every kind; and
during the summer months there could be no lack of fruits and
vegetables in abundance, at reasonable prices, supplied from the
numerous and well-cultivated farms and gardens around. This is
certainly an advantage over the diggings of Victoria or New South
Wales, if gold really does exist in paying quantities; if not, all the
fruit and vegetables in the world would not keep the diggers at
Echunga.

The following "Lament" was circulated in Adelaide, but not one of the
newspapers there would print it. They were all too anxious for the
success of their diggings, to countenance any grumblers against them:


    A LAMENT FOR MY THIRTY SHILLINGS,
    DEDICATED TO THE ECHUNGA VICTIMS,

    My one pound ten! my one pound ten!
    I paid as Licence Fee;
    Ah! cruel Bonney! pray return,
    That one pound ten to me.

    When to Echunga diggings first
    I hastened up from town,
    Thy tent I sought with anxious care
    And paid the money down.

    And though my folly ever since
    I bitterly deplore,
    It soothes my mind to know there were
    Three scores of fools before.

    Then, Bonney, listen to my lay,
    And if you wish to thrive,
    Send back the money quick to me,
    To number sixty-five.

    Who wants but little here below,
    Nor wants that little long,
    Had better to Echunga go,
    And not to Mount Coorong.

    But as for me I like a swag,
    At least a little more
    Than what we got there in a week--
    Eight pennyweights 'mongst four.

    For that, of surface earth we washed
    Of dray loads half a score;
    I'll swear that cradling never seemed
    Such tedious work before.

    To sink for gold we then commenced,
    With grief I must confess,
    'Twas fruitless toil, although we went
    Down thirty feet or less.

    All you who've paid your one pound ten,
    Are on your licence told
    That then you are entitled to
    Remove alluvial gold.

    But if the alluvial gold's not there
    I'd like to have it proved
    By what ingenious process it
    Can ever be removed?

    Then back to Bendigo I'll haste,
    To seek the precious ore;
    Although my one pound ten I fear
    Returns to me no more.

    Yet as the boundary line I cross,
    My parting prayer shall be--
    Ah! cruel Bonney! pray return
    My one pound ten to me!

    ANTIGROPOLOS.
    Adelaide, September 1852.


With a short extract from the "South Australian Register" of
February 7, 1853, I shall conclude my remarks on the Adelaide diggings.


"THE GOLD FIELDS.--Although there is at the diggings everything to
indicate gold in large quantities, none have succeeded in realizing
their hopes. The majority content themselves with what they can get on
Chapman's Hill and Gully, knowing that, if a fresh place is discovered,
they will stand as good a chance as those who have spent months
in trying to find better ground.

"The quantity of gold taken to the Assay-office, during four
consecutive weeks, amounting to less than four thousand ounces, the
Governor has proclaimed that after the 17th of February the office will
be closed."




Chapter XVI.



MELBOURNE AGAIN


It was on Monday the 25th of October, that for the second time I
entered Melbourne. Not many weeks had elapsed since I had quitted it
for my adventurous trip to the diggings, yet in that short space of
time how many changes had taken place. The cloudy sky was exchanged for
a brilliant sunshine, the chilling air for a truly tropical heat, the
drizzling rain for clouds of thick cutting dust, sometimes as thick as
a London fog, which penetrated the most substantial veil, and made our
skins smart terribly. The streets too had undergone a wondrous
transformation. Collins Street looked quite bright and cheerful, and
was the fashionable promenade of those who had time or inclination for
lounging. Parties of diggers were constantly starting or arriving,
trips to St. Kilda and Brighton were daily taking place; and a coach
was advertised to run to the diggings! I cannot quite realize the
terrified passengers being driven through the Black Forest, but can
picture their horror when ordered to "bail up" by a party of Australian
Turpins.

In every window--milliners, baby-linen warehouses, &c., included--was
exhibited the usual advertisement of the gold buyer--namely, a heap of
gold in the centre, on one side a pile of sovereigns, on the other
bank-notes. The most significant advertisement was one I saw in a
window in Collins Street. In the middle was a skull perforated by a
bullet, which lay at a little distance as if coolly examining or
speculating on the mischief it had done. On one side of the skull was a
revolver, and on the other a quantity of nuggets. Above all, was the
emphatic inscription, "Beware in time." This rather
uncomfortable-looking tableau signified--in as speaking a manner as
symbols can--that the unfortunate skull had once belonged to some more
unfortunate lucky digger, who not having had the sense to sell his gold
to the proprietor of this attractive window had kept his nuggets in his
pocket, thereby tempting some robbers--significantly personified by the
revolver--to shoot him, and steal the gold. Nowhere could you turn your
eye without meeting "30,000 oz. wanted immediately; highest price
given;" "10,000 oz. want to consign per ----; extra price given to
immediate sellers," &c. Outwardly it seemed a city of gold, yet
hundreds were half perishing for want of food, with no place of shelter
beneath which to lay their heads. Many families of freshly-arrived
emigrants--wife, children, and all--slept out in the open air; infants
were born upon the wharves with no helping hand near to support the
wretched mother in her misery.

How greatly the last few weeks had enlarged Melbourne. Cities of tents
encompassed it on all sides; though, as I said before, the trifling
comfort of a canvas roof above them, was denied to the poorest
of the poor, unless a weekly tax were paid!

But I must return to ourselves. Our first business the next morning was
to find for our little Jessie some permanent home; for all our
movements were so uncertain--I myself, thinking of a return to the old
country--that it was considered advisable to obtain for her some better
friends than a set of volatile, though good-hearted young fellows--not
the most suitable protection for a young girl, even in so lax a place
as the colonies. We never thought of letting her return to England, for
there the life of a female, who has her own livelihood to earn, is one
of badly-paid labour, entailing constant privation, and often great
misery--if not worse. I have before said that William had relatives in
Melbourne, and to them we determined to entrust her. Mrs. R----- was a
kind-hearted and most exemplary woman; and having a very young family
of her own, was well pleased at such an acquisition as the thoughtful,
industrious little Jessie. Each of our party contributed a
small portion of their golden earnings to form a fund for a future day,
which I doubt not will be increased by our little friend's industry,
long before she needs it. Here let us leave her, trusting that her
future life may be as happy as her many excellent qualities deserve,
and hoping that her severest trials have already passed over her.

Our next care was to obtain our gold from the Escort-office; to do
which the receipts given in Bendigo had to be handed in, and after very
little delay the precious packets were restored to their respective
owners. The following is a facsimile of the tickets, printed on
parchment, attached to each parcel of which a duplicate, printed on
common paper, is given to the depositor:

    BENDIGO CREEK.
    No. 2772.
    Date, 8th of October, 1852.
    Name, Mr. A----.
    Quantity, 60 oz. 10 dwts.
    Consigned to, Self.

The trifling charge for all this trouble and responsibility is sixpence
an ounce.

The business satisfactorily arranged, the next was to dispose of it.
Some was converted into money, and sold for 69s. an ounce; and the
remainder was consigned to England, where, being very pure and above
standard, it realized 4 pounds an ounce. A great difference that!

We next paid Richard a visit, who, though surprised was well pleased to
see us again. He declared his resolution of returning to England as
soon as possible. Our party fixed their journey to the Ovens to take
place in three weeks. William determined to remain in town, which I
think showed wisdom on his part as his health was not equal to roughing
it in the bush; and this was a much more formidable trip than the last,
on account of length, and being much less frequented.

Meanwhile we enjoyed the fine weather, and our present companionship,
as much as possible, while taking little trips here, there, and
everywhere. The one I most enjoyed was a sail in the Bay. The
captain of the vessel in which we left England, was still detained in
Port Philip for want of hands--the case of hundreds--and offered to give
us a sail, and a dinner on board afterwards. We soon made up a large
party, and enjoyed it exceedingly. The day was lovely. We walked down
to Liardet's Beach, a distance of nearly three miles, and were soon
calmly skimming over the waters. We passed St. Kilda and Brighton, and
gained an excellent view of the innumerable vessels then lying useless
and half-deserted in the Bay.

It was a sad though a pretty sight. There were fine East Indiamen,
emigrant ships, American clippers, steamers, traders--foreign and
English--whalers, &c., waiting there only through want of seamen.

In the cool of the evening our gallant host rowed us back to the beach.
Since our first landing, tents and stores had been erected in great
numbers, and Little Adelaide was grown wonderfully. I think I have
never mentioned the quantity of frogs that abound in Australia.
This particular evening I remarked them more than usual, and without
the least exaggeration their croaking resembled a number of mills in
motion. I know nothing to which I can more appropriately liken the
noise that resounded along the swampy portions of the road, from the
beach to Melbourne.

Much has been said of the climate of Australia, and many are the
conflicting statements thereon. The following table contains all the
information--personal and otherwise--which I have been enabled to
collect.

JANUARY AND FEBRUARY.--Generally the hottest months; average of the
thermometer, 78 in the shade; thunder-storms and COLONIAL showers of
rain occasionally visit us.

MARCH.--Fine genial weather; average temperature, 73 in the shade.

APRIL.--Weather more uncertain; mosquitos depart; average temperature,
70 in the shade:

MAY.--Fine, till towards the latter part of the month, when sometimes
the rainy season commences; average temperature in the shade, 64.

JUNE.--Rainy, and much cooler; temperature at an average of 58 in the
shade.

JULY.--Coldest month in the year; midwinter in the colonies; average
temperature, 53. Ice and snow may be seen inland.

AUGUST.--Very rainy. Average temperature, 58 in the shade.

SEPTEMBER.--Windy stormy month; weather getting warmer. Average
temperature, 63 in the shade.

OCTOBER--The presence of the mosquito, a sure proof that the weather is
permanently warm. Average temperature in the shade, 66.

NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER.--Tropically warm. Locusts, mosquitos, and
unnumbered creeping things swarm both in bush and town. Towards the end
of December the creeks commence to dry up, and the earth looks parched
for want of rain. No yule-log needed on Christmas Day. Thermometer as
high as 97 in the shade; average 75.

The principal trees in Australia are the gum, stringy bark, manna tree,
wild cherry (so called), iron bark, shea oak, peppermint,
acacia, and the mimosa, which last, however, should more properly be
called a shrub. These and others, like the Indian malelucas, are
remarkable for the Cajeput oil contained in their leaves, and in the
gums which exude from their sterns, and in this point of view alone,
considering their boundless number, their value can hardly be over
estimated. The gum of some of the acacias will bear comparison with
gum-arabic. Their bark and timber are likewise useful, and when the
gold fever has subsided, will become valuable as exports.

Wild flowers there are in abundance, and some exquisite specimens of
ferns. For the benefit of those better skilled in botany than myself, I
give the following list of Dr. Muller's indigenous plants of Victoria.
Correaochrolenca and Phebalium Asteriscophorum, both with the medical
properties of the Bucco-bush, Eurybia Rhodochaeta, E. Rugosa, E.
Adenophylla, E. Asterotristia, Sambucus, Gaudichaudiana, Prostanthera
Hirsuta, Pimelea axiflora (powerful Surrogat of the Mezerion
shrub), Bossidea decumbcus, Asterotristia asperifolia, Patersonia
aspera, Grevilliea repens, Dallachiana, &c.

The geranium, fuschia, rhododendrum, and almost all varieties of the
Cacti have been taken to the colonies, and flourish well in the open
air all the year round, growing much more luxuriantly than in England.

The vineyards must some day form a considerable source of employment
and profit to the colonists. The wine made in Australia is very good.
The vines are cultivated in the same manner as in France. In the
neighbourhood of Sydney, oranges and peaches are grown out in the open
air. Apples and other fruits flourish well in Van Diemen's Land. All
these fruits are not indigenous to Australia. The only articles of food
natural there, are the kangaroos, emus, opossums, and other denizens of
the forest, a few snakes, some roots, and a worm, about the length and
thickness of a finger, which is abundant in all parts of the colony,
and is taken out of the cavities, or from under the bark, of the trees.
It is a great favourite with the blacks, as it can be procured
when no other food is attainable.

I have before made mention of the bush and scrub; there is a great
dissimilarity between the two. The former resembles a forest, with none
or very little underwood. The scrub, on the contrary, is always
underwood, of from six to twenty feet high, and only here and there a
few trees are seen. To be lost in either bush or scrub is a common
thing. If on horseback the best way is to give the rein to your
four-footed companion, and instinct will most probably enable him to
extricate you. If on foot, ascend, if possible, a rise of ground, and
notice any FALL in the country; here, most likely, is a creek, and once
beside that, you are pretty sure of coming to a station. If this fails,
you must just bush it for the night, and resume your search next
morning, trusting to an occasional "coo-ey" to help you out of your
difficulty.

The scenery of Australia partakes of all characters. Sometimes miles of
swamp reminds one of the Lincolnshire fens; at other times it assumes
quite a park-like appearance, though the effect is greatly
injured by the want of freshness about the foliage, which always looks
of a dirty, dingy green. The native trees in Australia never shed their
leaves, never have that exquisite young tint which makes an English
spring in the country so delicious. Their faded look always reminded me
of those unfortunate trees imprisoned for so many months beneath the
Crystal Palace.

The mountains in Australia are high and bold in outline, and the
snow-capped Alps on the boundaries of New South Wales are not unlike
their European namesakes, the highest tops are from six to seven
thousand feet above the level of the sea. The country round Ballarat is
more in the North American style, and when the creek is full, it is a
fine sight, greatly resembling, I have beard, one of the smaller rivers
in Canada; in fact, the scenery round Ballarat is said to approach more
to Upper Canada than any in the colony. The rocks, although not high,
are in places very bold and romantic, and in the wet season there are
several water-falls in the neighbourhood.

Eels are very plentiful in Victoria, and are peculiar to this district,
being seldom, if ever, found in any other part of the known continent.
Old writers on Australia have stated that eels are unknown in this part
of the world, which, since this colony has been settled in, has been
found to be erroneous, as the Barwin, the Yarra Yarra, and their
tributaries abound with them, some weighing five or six pounds. A few
days after our return from the diggings, we breakfasted off a dish of
stewed eels, caught by a friend; the smallest weighed about a pound and
a half, the largest about three pounds. They were caught three miles
from Melbourne, in the Salt Water Creek.

A small kind of fish like the lamprey, another similar to the gudgeon,
and also one (of rather a larger kind--the size of the roach) called
here "white herrings," but not at all resembling that fish, are found.
Pike are also very numerous. Crabs and lobsters are not known here, but
in the salt creeks near the sea we have craw-fish.

Of course, parrots, cockatoos and "sich-like," abound in the
bush, to the horror of the small gardeners and cultivators, as what
they do not eat they ruin by destroying the young shoots.

Kangaroos are extremely numerous in the scrub. They are the size of a
large greyhound, and of a mouse colour. The natives call them
"kanguru." The tail is of great strength. There are several varieties
of them. The largest is the Great Kangaroo, of a greyish-brown colour,
generally four or five feet high and the tail three. Some kangaroos are
nearly white, others resemble the hare in colour. Pugs, or young
kangaroos, are plentiful about the marshy grounds; so are also the
opossum and kangaroo rat. The latter is not a rat, properly speaking,
but approaches the squirrel tribe. It is a lilliputian kangaroo, the
size of our native wood squirrel and larger, only grey or reddish-grey.
It can leap six or eight feet easily, and is excellent eating. The
native dog is of all colours; it has the head and brush of a fox, with
the body a legs of a dog. It is a cowardly animal, and will run away
from you like mad. It is a great enemy of the kangaroo rat, and
a torment to the squatter, for a native dog has a great PENCHANT for
mutton and will kill thirty or forty sheep in the course of an hour.

A species of mocking-bird which inhabits the bush is a ludicrous
creature. It imitates everything, and makes many a camping party
imagine there is a man near them, when they hear its whistle or hearty
laugh. This bird is nicknamed the "Jackass," and its loud "ha! ha! ha!"
is heard every morning at dawn echoing through the woods and serving
the purpose of a "boots" by calling the sleepy traveller in good time
to get his breakfast and pursue his journey. The bats here are very
large.

Insects, fleas, &c., are as plentiful as it is possible to be, and the
ants, of which there are several kinds, are a perfect nuisance. The
largest are called by the old colonists, "bull-dogs," and formidable
creatures they are--luckily not very common, about an inch and a half
long, black, or rusty-black, with a red tail. They bite like a
little crab. Ants of an inch long are quite common. They do not--like the
English ones--run scared away at the sight of a human being--not a
bit of it; Australian ants have more PLUCK, and will turn and face you.
Nay, more, should you RETREAT, they will run after you with all the
impudence imaginable. Often when my organ of destructiveness has
tempted me slightly to disturb with the end of my parasol one of the
many ant-hills on the way from Melbourne to Richmond, I have been
obliged, as soon as they discovered the perpetrator of the attack, to
take to my heels and run away as if for my life.

Centipedes and triantelopes (colonial, for tarantula) are very common,
and though not exactly fatal, are very dangerous if not attended to.
The deaf adder is the most formidable "varmint" in Australia. There are
two varieties; it is generally about two feet long. The bite is fatal.
The deaf adder never moves unless it is touched, hence its name. I do
not think it has the power of twisting or twirling, like the
ordinary snake or adder and it is very slow in its movements. There are
several species of snakes, some of them are extremely venomous and grow
to a large size, as long as ten feet. The black snake is the most
venomous of any; its bite is fatal within a few hours.

But let us leave these wilder subjects and return to Melbourne.

The state of society in the town had not much improved during my
absence. On the public road from Melbourne to St. Kilda, fifteen men
were robbed in one afternoon, and tied to trees within sight of one
another. In Melbourne itself the same want of security prevailed, and
concerts, lectures, &c., were always advertised to take place when
there was a full moon, the only nights any one, unarmed, dared venture,
out after dusk. The following extract from the "Argus," gives a fair
specimen of Melbourne order.

"We are led to these remarks (referring to a tirade against the
Government) by an occurrence that took place last week in Queen Street,
the whole detail of which is peculiarly illustrative of the
very creditable state of things, to which, under the happy auspices of
a La Trobe dynasty, we are rapidly descending.

"A ruffian robs a man in a public-house, in broad daylight. He is
pursued by a constable and taken. On the way to the watchhouse a mob
collects, the police are attacked, pistols are pointed, bludgeons and
axe-handles are brought out of the adjacent houses (all still in broad
daylight, and in a busy street), and distributed amongst the crowd,
loud cries inciting attack are heard, a scuffle ensues, the police are
beaten, the prisoner is rescued, the crowd separates, and a man is left
dead upon the ground. The body is taken into a public-house, an inquest
is held, the deceased is recognized as a drunkard, the jury is assured
that a POST-MORTEM examination is quite unnecessary; and the man is
buried, after a verdict is brought in of 'Died by the visitation of
God;' the said visitation of God having, in this instance, assumed the
somewhat peculiar form of a fractured skull!"

This is a true picture of Melbourne; but whether the "Argus" is
justified in reproaching the "La Trobe dynasty" with it, is quite
another matter.

In pages like these, anything resembling an argument on the
"transportation question," would be sadly out of place. To avoid
thinking or hearing it was impossible, for during my second stay in
Melbourne, it was a never-failing subject of conversation. In Victoria
(which is only forty-eight hours' journey from Van Diemen's Land), I
have seen the bad results of the mingling of so many transports and
ticket-of-leave men among the free population. On the other hand, I
have heard from many and good authorities, of the substantial benefits
conferred on Sydney and New South Wales by convict labour. It is
difficult to reconcile these two statements, and it is an apple of
discord in the colonies.

Whilst in Victoria, I met with a great variety of emigrants, and I was
much struck by the great success that seems to have attended on almost
all of those who came out under the auspices of Mrs. Chisholm. No one
in England can fully appreciate the benefits her unwearied
exertions have conferred upon the colonies. I have met many of the
matrons of her ships, and not only do they themselves seem to have made
their way in the world, but the young females who were under their care
during the voyage appear to have done equally well. Perhaps one way of
accounting for this, is the fact that a great many of those going out
by the Chisholm Society are from Scotland, the inhabitants of which
country are peculiarly fortunate in the colonies, their industry,
frugality, and "canniness" being the very qualities to make a fortune
there. "Sydney Herbert's needlewomen" bear but a bad name; and the
worst recommendation a young girl applying for a situation can give, is
to say she came out in that manner--not because the colonists look down
on any one coming out by the assistance of others, but because it is
imagined her female associates on the voyage cannot have been such as
to improve her morality, even if she were good for anything before.

Much is said and written in England about the scarcity of
females in Australia, and the many good offers awaiting the acceptance
of those who have the courage to travel so far. But the colonial
bachelors, who are so ready to get married, and so very easy in their
choice of a wife, are generally those the least calculated, in spite of
their wealth, to make a respectable girl happy; whilst the better class
of squatters and diggers--if they do not return home to get married,
which is often the case--are not satisfied with any one, however pretty,
for a wife, unless her manners are cultivated and her principles
correct.

To wander through Melbourne and its environs, no one would imagine that
females were as one to four of the male population; for bonnets and
parasols everywhere outnumber the wide-awakes. This is occasioned by
the absence of so many of the "lords of creation" in pursuit of what
they value--many of them, at least--more than all the women in the
world--nuggets. The wives thus left in town to deplore their husbands'
infatuation, are termed "grass-widows"--a mining expression.

And now two out of the three weeks of our party's stay in Melbourne has
expired, during which time a change (purely personal) had made my
brother's protection no longer needed by me. MY wedding-trip was to be
to England, and the marriage was to take place, and myself and CARO
SPOSO to leave Australia before my brother departed for the Ovens
diggings. The 'C----,' a fine East Indiaman, then lying in the bay, was
bound for London. We were to be on board by the 12th of November.

This of course gave me plenty to do, and my last morning but one in
Melbourne was dedicated to that favourite feminine occupation--which,
however, I detest--I mean, shopping. This being accomplished to my great
dissatisfaction--for all I bought could have been obtained, of a better
description, for half the price in England--I was preparing to return
home by way of Collins Street, when my name in familiar accents made me
suddenly pause. I instantly recognised the lady who addressed me as one
of the English governesses in a "finishing" school where three years of
my girlhood were passed. Julia ------ was a great favourite among
us; no one could have done otherwise than admire the ability and
good-humour with which she fulfilled her many arduous duties. Perhaps,
of all miserable positions for a well-educated and refined young person
to be placed in, that of "little girls' teacher" in a lady's school is
the worst.

Her subsequent history I learnt as we walked together to my present
abode.

Her mother had had a cousin in Sydney, who being old and unmarried,
wrote to her, promising to settle all his property, which was
considered large, upon her daughter and herself, his only living
relatives, provided they came out to the colonies to live with him
until his death. A sum of money to defray the expenses of the voyage
was enclosed. This piece of unexpected good news was received with
pleasure, and the invitation gladly accepted. They sailed for Sydney.
On arriving there, they found that some speculation, in which he was
greatly involved, had failed; and the old man had taken the loss so
greatly to heart, that he died only five months after having
dispatched the letter to his English relatives.

Poor Julia was placed in a most painful position. In England she had
scarcely been able to support her invalid mother by her own exertions,
but in a strange country and without friends these difficulties seemed
increased. Her first act was to look over the advertizing columns of
the papers, and her eye caught sight of one which seemed exactly to
suit her. It was, "Wanted, a governess to take the entire charge of a
little girl, the daughter of a widower, and also an elderly lady, to
superintend the domestic arrangements of the same family during the
continual absence of the master at another station." Julia wrote
immediately, and was accepted. In the occasional visits that her
pupil's father paid to his little girl, he could not fail to be struck
by the sweet disposition and many other good qualities of her
governess, and it ended by his making her his wife. I felt at liberty
to congratulate her, for she looked the picture of happiness. I saw her
again next day, when she showed me the advertisement which had
been the means of such a change in her circumstances.

The day before my departure was a painful one, so many farewells to be
taken of dear friends whom I should never meet again.

On Friday, the 15th of November, my brother and all our party, Richard
and Jessie included, accompanied us to the pier at Williamstown, to
which we were conveyed by a steamer. For this we paid five shillings
a-piece, and the same for each separate box or parcel, and twelve
shillings to a man for carting our luggage down to the Melbourne wharf,
a distance of not a mile.

On landing at the pier, how greatly was I astonished to meet Harriette
and her husband. Her modest desires were gratified, and they had
realized sufficient capital at the diggings to enable them to settle
most comfortably near Adelaide. In hurried words she told me this, for
their boat was already alongside the pier waiting to take them to their
ship. Hardly had they departed than a boat arrived from our
vessel to convey us to it. Sad adieux were spoken, and we were rowed
away.

That evening a pilot came on board, anchors were weighed, we left the
bay, and I saw Melbourne no more.




Chapter XVII.



HOMEWARD BOUND


We soon left Port Philip far behind, and in a few days saw nothing but
a vast expanse of water all around us. Our vessel was filled with
returning diggers; and it is worth while to remark that only two had
been unsuccessful, and these had only been at the diggings a few days.

One family on board interested me very much. It consisted of father,
mother, and two children. The eldest, a little, girl, had been born
some time before they left England. Her brother was a sturdy fellow of
two years old, born in the colonies soon after their arrival.
He could just toddle about the deck, where he was everlastingly looking
for "dold," and "nuddets." The whole family had been at the diggings
for nine months, and were returning with something more than 2,000 pounds
worth of gold. In England it had been hard work to obtain sufficient
food by the most constant labour; they had good reason to be thankful
for the discovery of the gold-fields.

Saturday, November 27, was forty-eight hours long, or two days of the
same name and date. Sailing right round the world in the direction of
from west to east, we gained exactly twenty-four hours upon those who
stay at home; and we were therefore obliged to make one day double to
prevent finding ourselves wrong in our dates and days on our arrival in
England. Melbourne is about ten hours before London, and therefore
night, and day are reversed.

Rapidly it became cooler, for the winds were rather contrary, and drove
us much farther south than was needed. We were glad to avail
ourselves of our opossum rugs to keep ourselves warm. One of these rugs
is quite sufficient covering of a night in the coldest weather, and
imparts as much heat as a dozen blankets. They are made from the skins
of the opossums, sewn together by the natives with the sinews of the
same animal. Each skin is about twelve inches by eight, or smaller; and
as the rugs are generally very large, they contain sometimes as many as
eighty skins. They may be tastefully arranged, as there is a great
difference in the colours; some being like a rich sable, others nearly
black, and others again of a grey and light brown. The fur is long and
silky. At one time a rug of this description was cheap enough--perhaps
as much as two sovereigns but the great demand for them by diggers,
&c., has made them much more scarce, and it now requires a ten
pound-note to get a good one. The best come from Van Diemen's Land. In
summer they are disagreeable, as they harbour insects.

However, whilst rounding Cape Horn, in the coldest weather I ever
experienced, we were only too happy to throw them over us
during the nights.

One morning we were awakened by a great confusion on deck. Our ship was
ploughing through a quantity of broken ice. That same afternoon, we
sighted an immense iceberg about ten miles from us. Its size may be
imagined from the fact, that, although we were sailing at a rate of ten
knots an hour, we kept it in sight till dark. This was on the 3rd of
December.

We soon rounded the Horn, and had some very rough weather. One of the
sailors fell off the jib-boom; and the cry of "man overboard" made our
hearts beat with horror. Every sail was on; we were running right
before the wind, and the waves were mountains high, a boat must have
been swamped; and long before we could "bout ship", he had sunk to
rise no more.

After rounding Cape Horn, we made rapid progress; by Christmas Day, we
were in the Tropics. It was not kept with much joviality, for water and
food were running scarce. Provisions were so dear in Melbourne,
that they had laid in a short allowance of everything, and our captain
had not anticipated half so many passengers. We tried, therefore, to
put into St. Helena, but contrary winds preventing us, we sailed back
again to the South American coast, and anchored off Pernambuco. It was
providential that economical intentions made our captain prefer this
port, for had we touched at Rio, we should have encountered the yellow
fever, which we afterwards heard was raging there.

Pernambuco is apparently a very pretty place. We were anchored about
four miles from the town, so had a good view of the coast. I longed to
be on shore to ramble beneath the elegant cocoa-nut-trees. The weather
was intensely hot, for it was in the commencement of January; and the
boats full of fruit, sent from the shore for sale, were soon emptied by
us. I call them boats, but they are properly termed catamarans. They
are made of logs of wood lashed securely together; they have a sail and
oars but no sides, so the water rushes over, and threatens
every moment to engulf the frail conveyance; but no, the wood is too
light for that. The fruits brought us from shore were oranges,
pine-apples, water-melons, limes, bananas, cocoa-nuts, &c., and some
yams, which were a good substitute for potatoes. The fruit was all very
good, and astonishingly cheap; our oranges being green, lasted till we
reached England. Some of our passengers went on shore, and returned
with marvellous accounts of the dirtiness and narrowness of the
streets, and the extremely NATURAL costume of the natives.

We remained here about four days, and then, with favourable winds,
pursued our voyage at an average rate of ten or twelve knots an hour.
As we neared the English coast, our excitement increased to an awful
height; and for those who had been many years away, I can imagine every
trivial delay was fraught with anxiety.

But we come in sight of land; and in spite of the cold weather, for it
is now February, 1853, every one rushes to the deck. On we go;
at last we are in the Downs, and then the wind turned right against us.

Boats were put off from the Deal beach. The boatmen there rightly
calculated that lucky gold-diggers wouldn't mind paying a pound a-piece
to get ashore, so they charged that, and got plenty of customers
notwithstanding.

On Sunday, the 27th of February, I again set foot on my native land. It
was evening when we reached the shore, and there was only an open
vehicle to convey us to the town of Deal itself. The evening was
bitterly cold, and the snow lay upon the ground. As we proceeded along,
the sounds of the Sabbath bell broke softly on the air. No greeting
could have been more pleasing or more congenial to my feelings.




Chapter XVIII.



CONCLUSION


As I trust that, in the foregoing pages, I have slightly interested my
readers in "our party," the following additional account of their
movements, contained in letters addressed to me by my brother, may not
be quite uninteresting.

The Ovens diggings are on the river of the same name, which takes its
rise in the Australian Alps, and flows into the Murray. As these Alps
separate New South Wales from Victoria, these diggings belong to the
latter province. They are about forty miles from the town of
Albury. They are spread over a large space of ground. The principal
localities are Spring and Reid's Creeks.

Now for the letters.


"Melbourne, January 5, 1853.
"My dear E--,

"You'll be surprised at the heading of this but the Ovens are not to my
taste, and I'm off again with Frank and Octavius to Bendigo tomorrow. I
suppose you'll like to hear of our adventures up to the Ovens, and the
reasons for this sudden change of plans. We left Melbourne the Monday
after you sailed, and camped out half-way to Kilmore, a little beyond
the 'Lady of the Lake.' The day was fine, but the dust made us
wretched. Next day, we reached Kilmore--stopped there all night. Next
day on again, and the farther we went, the more uncivilized it
became--hills here, forests there, as wild and savage as any one could
desire. It was 'bushing it' with a vengeance. This lasted several days.
Once we lost our road, and came, by good luck, to a sort of
station. They received us very hospitably, and set us right next
morning. Four days after, we came to the Goulburn river. There was a
punt to take us over, and a host of people (many from Bendigo) waiting
to cross. Three days after, we pitched out tents at the Ovens. Here I
soon saw it was no go. There was too much water, and too little gold;
and even if they could knock the first difficulty on the head, I don't
think they could do the same to the second. In my own mind, I think it
impossible that the Ovens will ever turn out the second Bendigo that
many imagine. Hundreds differ from me, therefore it's hundreds to one
that I'm wrong. The average wages, as far as I can judge, are an ounce
a-week; some much more, many much less. We did not attempt digging
ourselves. Eagle Hawk shallowness has spoilt us, for not even Octavius
(who, you know of old, was a harder worker than either Frank or self)
thinks it worth digging through fourteen or sixteen feet of
hard clay for the mere pleasure of exercising our limbs. Provisions
there were not at the high price that many supposed they would be, but
quite high enough, Heaven knows! Meat was very scarce and bad, and
flour all but a shilling a pound; and if the fresh arrivals keep
flocking in, and no greater supply of food, it will get higher still.
We stayed there two weeks, then brought our dray back again, and are
now busy getting ready for a fresh start to Bendigo. Among other things
we shall take, are lemonade and ginger-beer powders, a profitable
investment, though laughable. The weather is very hot--fancy 103 degrees
in the shade. Water is getting scarce."

        *  *  *  *  *

"Have seen all our friends in Melbourne except Richard, who left for
England a fortnight ago. Jessie is well, and growing quite pretty. She
says she is extremely happy, and sends such a number of
messages to you, that I'll write none, for fear of making a mistake.
Will write again soon."

        *  *  *  *  *

"Your affectionate brother, in haste,
"----"



"Melbourne, April 17, 1853.
"My dear E----,

"I suppose you've thought I was buried in my hole, or 'kilt' by
bushrangers in the Black Forest; but I've been so occupied in the
worship of Mammon, as to have little thoughts for anything else.

        *  *  *  *  *

"We made a good thing of our last two speculations. Ginger-beer and
lemonade, or lemon kali, at sixpence a tiny glass, paid well. A
successful digger would drink off a dozen one after another. Some days,
we have taken ten pounds in sixpences at this fun. What they
bought of us wouldn't harm them, but many mix up all sorts of injurious
articles to sell; but our consciences, thank God! are not colonised
sufficiently for that. We have had steady good luck in the digging line
(for we combine everything), and after this next trip, mean to dissolve
partnership.

        *  *  *  *  *

"Octavius talks of going out as overseer, or something of that sort, to
some squatter in New South Wales for a year or so, just to learn the
system, &c., and then, if possible, take a sheep-run himself. Frank
means to send for Mrs. Frank and small Co. He says he shall stay in
Victoria for some years. I do believe he likes the colony. As for
myself, I hope to see the last of it in six weeks' time.

* * * * *

"Hurrah for Old England!--no place like it.

* * * * *

"Your very affectionate brother,
"----"


With a cordial assent to the last few words, I conclude these pages.




APPENDIX



WHO SHOULD EMIGRATE?


The question of "Who should emigrate?" has now become one of such
importance (owing to the number who are desirous of quitting their
native land to seek a surer means of subsistence in our vast colonial
possessions), that any book treating of Australia would be sadly
deficient were a subject of such universal interest to be left
unnoticed; and where there are so many of various capabilities, means
and disposititoins, in need of guidance and advice as to the advantage
of their emigrating, it is probable that the experience of any one,
however slight that experience may be, will be useful to some.

Any one to succeed in the colonies must take with him a quantity of
self-reliance, energy, and perseverance; this is the best capital a man
can have. Let none rely upon introductions--they are but useless things
at the best--they may get you invited to a good dinner; but now that
fresh arrivals in Melbourne are so much more numerous than heretofore,
I almost doubt if they would do even that. A quick, clever fellow with
a trade of his own, inured to labour, and with a light heart, that can
laugh at the many privations which the gipsy sort of life he must lead
in the colonies will entail upon him; any one of this description
cannot fail to get on. But for the number of clerks, shopmen, &c., who
daily arrive in Australia, there is a worse chance of their gaining a
livelihood than if they had remained at home. With this description of
labour the colonial market is largely overstocked; and it is
distressing to notice the number of young men incapable of
severe manual labour, who, with delicate health, and probably still
more delicately filled purses, swarm the towns in search of employment,
and are exposed to heavy expenses which they can earn nothing to meet.
Such men have rarely been successful at the diggings; the demand for
them in their accustomed pursuits is very limited in proportion to
their numbers; they gradually sink into extreme poverty--too often into
reckless or criminal habits--till they disappear from the streets to
make way for others similarly unfortunate.

A little while since I met with the histories of two individuals
belonging to two very different classes of emigrants; and they are so
applicable to this subject, that I cannot forbear repeating them.

The first account is that of a gentleman who went to Melbourne some
eight months ago, carrying with him a stock of elegant acquirements and
accomplishments, but little capital. He is now in a starving condition,
almost with-out the hope of extrication, and is imploring from
his friends the means to return to England, if he live long enough to
receive them. The colours in which he paints the colonies are
deplorable in the extreme.

The other account is that of a compositor who emigrated much about the.
same time. He writes to his former office-mates that he got immediate
and constant employment at the rate of 7 pounds per week, and naturally
thinks that there is no place under the sun like Melbourne. Both
emigrants are right. There is no better place under the sun than
Melbourne for those who can do precisely what the Melbourne people
want; and which they must and will have at any price; but there is no
worse colony to which those can go who have not the capabilities
required by the Melbourne people. They are useless and in the way,
their accomplishments are disregarded, their misfortunes receive no
pity; and, whilst a good carpenter or bricklayer would make a fortune,
a modern Raphael might starve.

But even those possessed of every qualification for making first-class
colonists, will at first meet with much to surprise and annoy them, and
will need all the energy they possess, to enable them to overcome the
many disagreeables which encounter them as soon as they arrive.

Let us, for example, suppose the case of an emigrant, with no
particular profession or business, but having a strong constitution,
good common sense, and a determination to bear up against every
hardship, so that in the end it leads him to independence. Let us
follow him through the difficulties that bewilder the stranger in
Melbourne during the first few days of his arrival.

The commencement of his dilemmas will be that of getting his luggage
from the ship; and so quickly do the demands for pounds and shillings
fall upon him, that he is ready to wish he had pitched half his "traps"
over-board. However, we will suppose him at length safely landed on the
wharf at Melbourne, with all his boxes beside him. He inquires
for a store, and learns that there are plenty close at hand; and then
forgetting that he is in the colonies, he looks round for a porter and
truck, and looks in vain. After waiting as patiently as he can for
about a couple of hours, he manages to hire an empty cart and driver;
the latter lifts the boxes into the conveyance (expecting, of course,
his employer to lend a hand), smacks his whip, and turns down street
after street till he reaches a tall, grim-looking budding, in front of
which he stops, with a "That ere's a store," and a demand for a
sovereign, more or less. This settled, he coolly requests the emigrant
to assist him in unloading, and leaves him to get his boxes carried
inside as best he can. Perhaps some of the storekeeper's men come to
the rescue, and with their help the luggage is conveyed into the
store-room (which is often sixty or eighty feet in length), where the
owner receives a memorandum of their arrival. Boxes or parcels may
remain there in perfect safety for months, so long as a
shilling a week is paid for each.

Our emigrant, having left his property in security, now turns to seek a
lodging for himself; and the extreme difficulty of procuring house
accommodation, with its natural consequences, an extraordinary rate of
rent, startles and amazes him. He searches the city in vain, and
betakes himself to the suburbs, where he procures a small,
half-furnished room, in a wooden house for thirty shillings a week. The
scarcity of houses in proportion to the population, is one of the
greatest drawbacks to the colony; but we could not expect it to be
otherwise when we remember that in one year Victoria received an
addition of nearly 80,000 inhabitants. The masculine portion of these
emigrants, with few exceptions, started off at once to the diggings;
hence the deficiency in the labour market is only partially filled up
by the few who remained behind, and by the fewer still who forsake the
gold-fields; whilst the abundance of money, and the deficiency of good
workmen, have raised the expenses of building far above the
point at which it would be a profitable investment for capital.
Meantime, the want is only partially supplied by the wooden cottages
which are daily springing up around the boundaries of the city; but
this is insufficient to meet the increasing want of shelter, and on the
southern bank of the Yarra there are four or five thousand people
living in tents. This settlement is appropriately called "Canvas Town."

But let us return to our newly-arrived emigrant.

Having succeeded in obtaining a lodging, he proceeds to purchase some
necessary articles of food, and looks incredulously at the shopkeeper
when told that butter is 3s. 6d. a pound, cheese, ham, or bacon 2s. to
2s. 6d., and eggs 4s. or 5s. a dozen. He wisely dispenses with such
luxuries, and contents himself with bread at 1s. 6d. the four-pound
loaf, and meat at 5d. a pound. He sleeps soundly, for the day has been
a fatiguing one, and next morning with renewed spirits
determines to search immediately for employment. He does not much care
what it is at first, so that he earns something; for his purse feels
considerably lighter after the many demands upon it yesterday. Before
an hour is over, he finds himself engaged to a storekeeper at a rate of
three pounds a-week; his business being to load and unload drays, roll
casks, lift heavy goods, &c.; and here we will leave him, for once set
going he will soon find a better berth. If he have capital, it is
doubtless safely deposited in the Bank until a little acquaintance with
the colonies enables him to invest it judiciously; and meanwhile, if wise,
he will spend every shilling as though it were his last; but if his
capital consists only of the trifle in his purse, no matter, the way he
is setting to work will soon rectify that deficiency, and he stands a
good chance in a few years of returning to England a comparatively
wealthy man.

To those of my own sex who desire to emigrate to Australia, I say do so
by all means, if you can go under suitable protection, possess
good health, are not fastidious or "fine-lady-like," can milk cows,
churn butter, cook a good damper, and mix a pudding. The worst risk you
run is that of getting married, and finding yourself treated with
twenty times the respect and consideration you may meet with in
England. Here (as far as number goes) women beat the "lords of
creation;" in Australia it is the reverse, and, there we may be pretty
sure of having our own way.

But to those ladies who cannot wait upon themselves, and whose fair
fingers are unused to the exertion of doing anything useful, my advice
is, for your own sakes remain at home. Rich or poor, it is all the
same; for those who can afford to give 40 pounds a-year to a female
servant will scarcely know whether to be pleased or not at the
acquisition, so idle and impertinent are they; scold them, and they will
tell you that "next week Tom, or Bill, or Harry will be back from the
diggings, and then they'll be married, and wear silk dresses, and be as
fine a lady as yourself;" and with some such words will coolly dismiss
themselves from your service, leaving their poor unfortunate mistress
uncertain whether to be glad of their departure or ready to cry because
there's nothing prepared for dinner, and she knows not what to set
about first.

For those who wish to invest small sums in goods for Australia, boots
and shoes, cutlery, flash jewellery, watches, pistols (particulary
revolvers), gunpowder, fancy articles, cheap laces, and baby-linen
offer immense profits.

The police in Victoria is very inefficient, both in the towns and on
the roads. Fifteen persons were stopped during the same afternoon
whilst travelling on the highway between Melbourne and St. Kilda. They
were robbed, and tied to trees within sight of each other--this too in
broad daylight. On the roads to the diggings it is still worse; and no
one intending to turn digger should leave England without a good supply
of fire-arms. In less than one week more than a dozen robberies
occurred between Kyneton and Forest Creek, two of which terminated in
murder. The diggings themselves are comparatively safe--quite as much
so as Melbourne itself--and there is a freemasonry in the bush which
possesses an irresistible charm for adventurous bachelors, and causes
them to prefer the risk of bushrangers to witnessing the dreadful
scenes that are daily and hourly enacting in a colonial town. Life in
the bush is wild, free and independent. Healthy exercise, fine scenery,
and a clear and buoyant atmosphere, maintain an excitement of the
spirits and a sanguineness of temperament peculiar to this sort of
existence; and many are the pleasant evenings, enlivened with the gay
jest or cheerful song, which are passed around the bush fires of
Australia.

The latest accounts from the diggings speak of them most encouragingly.
Out of a population of 200,000 (which is calculated to be the number of
the present inhabitants of Victoria), half are said to be at the
gold-fields, and the average earnings are still reckoned at
nearly an ounce per man per week. Ballarat is again rising into favour,
and its riches are being more fully developed. The gold there is more
unequally distributed than at Mount Alexander, and therefore the
proportion of successful to unsuccessful diggers is not so great as at
the latter place. But then the individual gains are in some cases
greater. The labour is also more severe than at the Mount or Bendigo,
as the gold lies deeper, and more numerous trials have to be made
before the deposits are struck upon.

The Ovens is admitted to be a rich gold-field, but the work there is
severely laborious, owing to a super-abundance of water.

The astonishing mineral wealth of Mount Alexander is evidenced by the
large amounts which it continues to yield, notwithstanding the immense
quantities that have already been taken from it. The whole country in
that neighbourhood appears to be more or less auriferous.

Up to the close of last year the total supposed amount of gold procured
from the Victoria diggings, is 3,998,324 ounces, which, when calculated
at the average English value of 4 pounds an ounce, is worth nearly SIXTEEN
MILLIONS STERLING. One-third of this is distinctly authenticated as
having come down by escort during the three last mouths of 1852.

In Melbourne the extremes of wealth and poverty meet, and many are the
anecdotes of the lavish expenditure of successful diggers that are
circulated throughout the town. I shall only relate two which fell
under my own observation.

Having occasion to make a few purchases in the linen drapery line, I
entered a good establishment in Collins Street for that purpose. It was
before noon, for later in the day the shops are so full that to get a
trifling order attended to would be almost a miracle. There was only
one customer in the shop, who was standing beside the counter, gazing
with extreme dissatisfaction upon a quantity of goods of various
colours and materials that lay there for his inspection. He was
a rough-looking customer enough, and the appearance of his hands gave
strong indication that the pickaxe and spade were among the last tools
he had handled.

"It's a SHINY thing that I want," he was saying as I entered.

"These are what we should call shining goods," said the shopman, as he
held up the silks, alpacas, &c., to the light.

"They're not the SHINY sort that I want," pursued the digger,
half-doggedly, half-angrily. "I'll find another shop; I guess you won't
show your best goods to me--you think, mayhap, I can't pay for them--but
I can, though," and he laid a note for fifty pounds upon the counter,
adding, "maybe you'll show me some SHINY stuff now!"

Unable to comprehend the wishes of his customer, the shopman called to
his assistance the master of the establishment, who being, I suppose,
of quicker apprehension, placed some satins before him.

"I thought the paper would help you find it. I want a gown for my
missus. What's the price?"

"Twenty yards at one-ten--thirty pounds. That do, Sir?"

"No; not good enough!" was the energetic reply.

The shrewd shopkeeper quickly fathomed his customer's desires, and now
displayed before him a rich orange-coloured satin, which elicited an
exclamation of delight.

"Twenty-five yards--couldn't sell less, it's a remnant--at three pounds
the yard."

"That's the go!" interrupted the digger, throwing some more notes upon
the counter. "My missus was married in a cotton gown, and now she'll
have a real gold 'un!"

And seizing the satin from the shopkeeper, he twisted up the portion
that had been unrolled for his inspection, placed the whole under his
arm, and triumphantly walked out of the shop, little thinking how he
had been cheated.

"A 'lucky digger' that," observed the shopman, as he attended to my
wants.

I could not forbear a smile, for I pictured to myself the digger's wife
mixing a damper with the sleeves of her dazzling satin dress tucked up
above her elbows.

A few days after, a heavy shower drove me to take shelter in a
pastry-cook's, where, under the pretence of eating a bun, I escaped a
good drenching. Hardly had I been seated five minutes, when a
sailor-looking personage entered, and addressed the shopwoman with:
"I'm agoing to be spliced to-morrow, young woman; show us some large
wedding-cakes."

The largest (which was but a small one) was placed before him, and
eighteen pounds demanded for it. He laid down four five-pound notes
upon the counter, and taking up the cake, told her to "keep the change
to buy ribbons with."

"Pleasant to have plenty of gold-digging friends," I remarked, by way
of saying something.

"Not a friend," said she, smiling. "I never saw him before. I expect
he's only a successful digger."

Turn we now to the darker side of this picture.

My favourite walk, whilst in Melbourne, was over Prince's Bridge, and
along the road to Liardet's Beach, thus passing close to the canvas
settlement, called Little Adelaide. One day, about a week before we
embarked for England, I took my accustomed walk in this direction, and
as I passed the tents, was much struck by the appearance of a little
girl, who, with a large pitcher in her arms, came to procure some water
from a small stream beside the road. Her dress, though clean and neat,
bespoke extreme poverty; and her countenance had a wan, sad expression
upon it which would have touched the most indifferent beholder, and
left an impression deeper even than that produced by her extreme though
delicate beauty.

I made a slight attempt at acquaintanceship by assisting to
fill her pitcher, which was far too heavy, when full of water, for so
slight a child to carry, and pointing to the rise of ground on which
the tents stood, I inquired if she lived among them.

She nodded her head in token of assent.

"And have you been long here? and do you like this new country?" I
continued, determined to hear if her voice was as pleasing as her
countenance.

"No!" she answered quickly; "we starve here. There was plenty of food
when we were in England;" and then her childish reserve giving way, she
spoke more fully of her troubles, and a sad though a common tale it
was.

Some of the particulars I learnt afterwards. Her father had held an
appointment under Government, and had lived upon the income derived
from it for some years, when he was tempted to try and do better in the
colonies. His wife (the daughter of a clergyman, well educated, and who
before her marriage had been a governess) accompanied him with
their three children. On arriving in Melbourne (which was about three
months previous), he found that situations equal in value, according to
the relative prices of food and lodging, to that which he had thrown up
in England were not so easily procured as he had been led to expect.
Half desperate, he went to the diggings, leaving his wife with little
money, and many promises of quick remittances of gold by the escort.
But week followed week, and neither remittances nor letters came. They
removed to humbler lodgings, every little article of value was
gradually sold, for, unused to bodily labour, or even to sit for hours
at the needle, the deserted wife could earn but little. Then sickness
came; there were no means of paying for medical advice, and one child
died. After this, step by step, they became poorer, until half a tent
in Little Adelaide was the only refuge left.

As we reached it, the little girl drew aside the canvas, and partly
invited me to enter. I glanced in; it was a dismal sight. In
one corner lay the mother, a blanket her only protection from the humid
soil, and cowering down beside her was her other child. I could not
enter; it seemed like a heartless intrusion upon misery; so, slipping
the contents of my purse (which were unfortunately only a few
shillings) into the little, girl's hand, I hurried away, scarcely
waiting to notice the smile that thanked me so eloquently. On arriving
at home, I found that my friends were absent, and being detained by
business, they did not return till after dusk, so it was impossible for
that day to afford them any assistance. Early next morning we took a
little wine and other trifling articles with us, and proceeded to
Little Adelaide. On entering the tent, we found that the sorrows of the
unfortunate mother were at an end; privation, ill health and anxiety had
claimed their victim. Her husband sat beside the corpse, and the golden
nuggets, which in his despair he had flung upon the ground, formed a
painful contrast to the scene of poverty and death.

The first six weeks of his career at the diggings had been most
unsuccessful, and he had suffered as much from want as his unhappy
wife. Then came a sudden change of fortune, and in two weeks more he
was comparatively rich. He hastened immediately to Melbourne, and for a
whole week had sought his family in vain. At length, on the preceding
evening, he found them only in time to witness the last moments of his
wife.

Sad as this history may appear, it is not so sad as many, many others;
for often, instead of returning with gold, the digger is never heard of
more.

In England many imagine that the principal labour at the diggings
consists in stooping to pick up the lumps of gold which lie upon the
ground at their feet, only waiting for some one to take possession of
them. These people, when told of holes being dug in depths of from
seven to forty feet before arriving at the desired metal, look upon
such statements as so many myths, or fancy they are fabricated by the
lucky gold-finders to deter too many others from coming to take
a share of the precious spoil. There was a passenger on board the
vessel which took me to Australia, who held some such opinions as
these, and, although in other respects a sensible man, he used
seriously to believe that every day that we were delayed by contrary
winds he could have been picking up fifty or a hundred pounds worth of
gold had he but been at the diggings. He went to Bendigo the third day
after we landed, stayed there a fortnight, left it in disgust, and
returned to England immediately--poorer than he had started.

This is not an isolated case. young men of sanguine dispositions read
the startling amounts of gold shipped from the colonies, they think of
the "John Bull Nugget" and other similar prizes, turn a deaf ear when
you speak of blanks, and determiinately overlook the vast amount of
labour which the gold diggings have consumed. Whenever I meet with this
class of would-be emigrants, the remarks of an old digger, which I once
over heard, recur to my mind. The conversation at the time was
turned upon the subject of the many young men flocking from the "old
country" to the gold-fields, and their evident unfitness for them.
"Every young man before paying his passage money," said he, "should take
a few days' spell at well-sinking in England; if he can stand that
comfortably, the diggings won't hurt him."

Many are sadly disappointed on arriving in Victoria, at being unable to
invest their capital or savings in the purchase of about a hundred
acres of land, sufficient for a small farm. I have referred to this
subject before, but cannot resist adding some facts which bear upon it.

By a return of the LAND SALES of Victoria, from 1837 to 1851, it
appears that 380,000 acres of land were sold in the whole colony; and
the sum realized by Government was 700,000 pounds. In a return published
in 1849, it is stated that there were THREE persons who each held singly
more land in their own hands than had been sold to all the rest of the
colony in fourteen years, for which they paid the sum of 30 pounds
each per annum. Yet, whilst 700,000 pounds is realized by the sale of
land, and not 100 pounds a-year gained by LETTING three times the
quantity, the Colonial Government persists in the latter course, in spite
of the reiterated disapprobation of the colonists themselves; and by one
of the last gazettes of Governor La Trobe, he has ordered 681,700 acres,
or 1,065 square miles, to be given over to the squatters. The result of
this is, that many emigrants landing in Victoria are compelled to turn
their steps towards the sister colony of Adelaide. There was a family
who landed in Melbourne whilst I was there. It consisted of the
parents, and several grown-up sons and daughters. The father had held a
small tenant farm in England, and having saved a few hundreds,
determined to invest it in Australian land. He brought out with him
many agricultural implements, an iron house, &c.; and on his arrival
found, to his dismay, that no less than 640 acres of crown lands could
be sold, at a time, at the upset price of one pound an acre. This was
more than his capital could afford, and they left for Adelaide. The
expenses of getting his goods to and from the ships, of storing them,
of supporting his family while in Melbourne, and of paying their
passage to Adelaide, amounted almost to 100 pounds. Thus he lost nearly a
fourth of his capital, and Victoria a family who would have made good
colonists.

Much is done now-a-days to assist emigration, but far greater exertions
are needed before either the demand for labour in the colonies or the
over-supply of it in England can be exhausted. Pass down the best
streets of Melbourne: you see one or two good shops or houses, and on
either side an empty spot or a mass of rubbish. The ground has been
bought, the plans for the proposed budding are all ready. Then why not
commence?--there are no workmen. Bricks are wanted, and 15 pounds a
thousand is offered; carpenters are advertized for at 8 pounds a week; yet
the building makes no progress--there are no workmen. Go down towards the
Yarra, and an unfinished Church will attract attention. Are funds wanting
for its completion? No. Thousands were subscribed in one day, and would
be again were it necessary; but that building, like every other, is
stopped for lack of workmen. In vain the bishop himself published an
appeal to the various labourers required offering the very highest
wages; others offered higher wages still, and the church (up to the
time I left Victoria) remained unfinished. And yet, whilst labour
is so scarce, so needed in the colonies, there are thousands in our own
country ABLE AND WILLING TO WORK, whose lives here are one of prolonged
privation, whose eyes are never gladdened by the sight of nature, who
inhale no purer atmosphere than the tainted air of the dark courts and
dismal cellars in which they herd. Send them to the colonies--food and
pure air would at least be theirs--and much misery would be turned into
positive happiness.

I heard of a lady who every year sent out a whole family from
the poor but hard-working classes to the colonies (it was through one
of the objects of her thoughtful benevolence that this annual act
became known to me), and what happiness must it bring when she reflects
on the heartfelt blessings that are showered upon her from the far-off
land of Australia. Surely, among the rich and the influential, there
are many who, out of the abundance of their wealth, could "go and do
likewise."



THE END.









Produced by Jill Diffendal.
A web page about Charlotte M Yonge may be found at
www.menorot.com/cmyonge.htm.




THE LANCES OF LYNWOOD


by CHARLOTTE M. YONGE



PREFACE


For an explanation of the allusions in the present Tale, scarcely
any Notes are necessary, save a reference to the bewitching Chronicle
of Froissart; and we cannot but hope that our sketch may serve as
an inducement to some young readers to make acquaintance with the
delectable old Canon for themselves, undeterred by the size of his
tomes.

The story of Orthon is almost verbally copied from him, and bears
a curious resemblance to various German legends--such as that of
"Heinzelman," to be found in Keightley's "Fairy Mythology," and to
"Teague of the Lea," as related in Croker's "Irish Fairy Legends."

The old French "Vie de Bertrand du Guesclin" has likewise been
drawn upon for materials, and would have supplied much more of
great interest, such as Enrique of Trastamare's arrival in the
disguise of a palmer, to consult with him during his captivity at
Bordeaux, and many most curious anecdotes of his early childhood
and youth.

To Breton tradition, his excellent wife Epiphanie Raguenel owes
her title of Tiphaine la fee, meaning that she was endowed with
magic power, which enabled her to predict what would be lucky or
unlucky days for her husband.  His disregard of them was thought
to have twice cost him the loss of a battle.

We must apologize for having made Henry of Lancaster a year or two
older than is warranted by the date of his birth.






THE LANCES OF LYNWOOD



CHAPTER I



Seldom had the interior of this island presented a more peaceful
and prosperous aspect than in the reign of Edward III., when the
more turbulent spirits among his subjects had found occupation
in his foreign wars, and his wise government had established at
home a degree of plenty, tranquility, and security, such as had
probably never before been experienced in England.

Castle and cottage, church and convent, alike showed the prosperity
and safety of the inhabitants, at once by the profuseness of
embellishment in those newly erected, and by the neglect of the
jealous precautions required in former days of confusion and
misrule.  Thus it was with the village of Lynwood, where, among
the cottages and farm-houses occupying a fertile valley in
Somersetshire, arose the ancient Keep, built of gray stone,
and strongly fortified; but the defences were kept up rather
as appendages of the owner's rank, than as requisite for his
protection; though the moat was clear of weeds, and full of
water, the drawbridge was so well covered with hard-trodden
earth, overgrown at the edges with grass, that, in spite of
the massive chains connecting it with the gateway, it seemed
permanently fixed on the ground.  The spikes of the portcullis
frowned above in threatening array, but a wreath of ivy was
twining up the groove by which it had once descended, and the
archway, which by day stood hospitably open, was at night only
guarded by two large oaken doors, yielding to a slight push.
Beneath the southern wall of the castle court were various
flower-beds, the pride and delight of the old seneschal, Ralph
Penrose, in his own estimation the most important personage of
Lynwood Keep, manager of the servants, adviser of the Lady, and
instructor of the young gentleman in the exercises of chivalry.

One fine evening, old Ralph stood before the door, his bald forehead
and thin iron-gray locks unbonneted, and his dark ruddy-brown face
(marked at Halidon Hill with a deep scar) raised with an air of
deference, and yet of self-satisfaction, towards the Lady who stood
on the steps of the porch.  She was small and fragile in figure; her
face, though very lovely, was pale and thin, and her smile had in it
something pensive and almost melancholy, as she listened to his
narration of his dealings with a refractory tenant, and at the same
time watched a noble-looking child of seven or eight years old, who,
mounted on an old war-horse, was led round the court by a youth, his
elder by some ten or eleven years.

"See mother!" cried the child, "I am holding the reins myself.  Uncle
Eustace lays not a finger on them!"

"As I was saying, madam," continued Ralph, disregarding the
interruption, "I told him that I should not have thought of one
exempted from feudal service in the camp, by our noble Knight,
being deficient in his dues in his absence.  I told him we should
see how he liked to be sent packing to Bordeaux with a sheaf of
arrows on his back, instead of the sheaf of wheat which ought to
be in our granary by this time.  But you are too gentle with them,
my Lady, and they grow insolent in Sir Reginald's long absence."

"All goes ill in his absence, said the Lady.  "It is a weary while
since the wounded archer brought tidings of his speedy return."

"Therefore," said the youth, turning round, "it must be the nearer
at hand.  Come sweet sister Eleanor, cheer up, for he cannot but
come soon."

"So many _soons_ have passed away, that my heart is well-nigh too
sick for hope," said Eleanor.  "And when he comes it will be but a
bright dream to last for a moment.  He cannot long be spared from
the Prince's side."

"You must go with him, then, sister, and see how I begin my days of
chivalry--that is, if he will but believe me fit to bear shield and
lance."

"Ah! Master Eustace, if you were but such as I have seen others
of your race," said Ralph, shaking his head.  "There was Sir Henry
--at your age he had made the Scottish thieves look about them, I
promise you.  And to go no further back than Sir Reginald himself--
he stood by the Prince's side at Crecy ere he was yet fifteen!"

"It is not my fault that I have not done as much, Ralph," said
Eustace.  "It is not for want of the will, as you know full well."

"No.  Thanks to me, I trust you have the will and the teaching, at
least, to make a good Knight," said Ralph.  "And yet, while I think
of the goodly height and broad shoulders of those that have gone
before you--"

"But hark! hark!" cried Eustace, cutting short a comparison which did
not seem likely to be complimentary.  "Dost not hear, Ralph? A horn!"

"The Lynwood note!  My husband's note!  O thanks, thanks to the
Saints!" cried the Lady, clasping her hands, whilst Eustace,
vaulting into the saddle behind his little nephew, rode across the
drawbridge as fast as the stiffened joints of old Blanc Etoile
could be prevailed on to move.  Gaining the summit of a rising
ground, both at once shouted, "Our own pennon!  It is himself!"
as they beheld the dark blue crosslet on an argent field floating
above a troop of horsemen, whose armour glanced in the setting sun.

"There are the Lances of Lynwood, Arthur," said Eustace, leaping
to the ground.  "Keep your seat, and meet your father like a brave
Knight's son."

He then settled the reins in the child's hand, and walked beside
him to meet the new-comers.  They were about twenty in number, armed
alike with corselets marked with the blue cross, steel headpieces,
and long lances.  In front rode two of higher rank.  The first was
a man of noble mien and lofty stature, his short dark curled hair
and beard, and handsome though sunburnt countenance, displayed
beneath his small blue velvet cap, his helmet being carried behind
him by a man-at-arms, and his attire consisting of a close-fitting
dress of chamois leather, a white mantle embroidered with the blue
cross thrown over one shoulder, and his sword hanging by his side.
His companion, who carried at his saddle-bow a shield blazoned with
heraldic devices in scarlet and gold, was of still greater height,
and very slight; his large keen eyes, hair and moustache, black as
jet; and his complexion dark brown, with a well-formed aquiline nose,
and a perfect and very white set of teeth.

The instant the first-mentioned horseman perceived Eustace and
Arthur, he sprang to the ground and hurried to meet them with
rapid affectionate greetings and inquiries.  In another moment
Dame Eleanor appeared on the drawbridge, and, weeping with
joy, was clasped in her husband's arms.  Behind her stood the
venerable chaplain, Father Cyril, and a step or two further off,
Ralph Penrose, both of whom in turn received the kindly greetings
of Sir Reginald Lynwood, as, with his wife hanging on his arm and
his boy holding his hand, he passed under the gateway of his
ancestral castle.  Turning the next moment, he addressed his tall
companion: "Friend Gaston, I bid you welcome!  Dame Eleanor, and
you, brother Eustace, I present to you my trusty Esquire, Master
Gaston d'Aubricour."

Due courtesies passed between the Lady and the Squire, who, after
a few words with the Knight, remained to see the disposal of the
men, while Sir Reginald himself entered the hall with his wife,
son and brother.  Eustace did not long remain there: he found that
Reginald and Eleanor had much to say to each other, and his curiosity
and interest were, besides, greatly excited by the novelty of the
scene presented by the castle court, so different from its usual
peaceful monotony.  The men were unsaddling their horses, rubbing
them down, walking them about, or removing the stains of dust and
mud from their own armour, while others were exchanging greetings
with the villagers, who were gathering in joyous parties round such
of the newly arrived as were natives of the place.

In the midst stood the strange Squire, superintending a horse-boy
who was rubbing down the Knight's tall war-horse, and at the
same time ordering, giving directions, answering inquiries, or
granting permission to the men to return home with their relations.
Ralph Penrose was near, his countenance, as Eustace could plainly
perceive, expressing little satisfaction at finding another authority
in the court of Lynwood Keep; the references to himself short, brief,
and rapid, and only made when ignorance of the locality compelled the
stranger to apply for information.  The French accent and occasional
French phrases with which the Squire spoke, made him contract his
brow more and more, and at last, just as Eustace came up, he walked
slowly away, grumbling to himself, "Well, have it e'en your own way,
I am too old for your gay French fashions.  It was not so in Humfrey
Harwood's time, when--  But the world has gone after the French now!
Sir Reginald has brought home as many Gascon thieves as kindly
Englishmen!"

Eustace listened for a moment to his mutterings, but without answering
them, and coming within a few steps of the stranger, stood waiting to
offer him any courtesy in his power, though at the same time he felt
abashed by the consciousness of his inferiority in accomplishments
and experience.

It was the Squire who was the first to speak.  "So this is Sir
Reginald's old Keep!  A fine old fortalice--would stand at least
a fortnight's siege.  Ha!  Is not yonder a weak point?  I would
undertake to scale that tower, so the battering-rams made a
diversion on the other side."

"I trust it will never be tried," said Eustace.

"It would be as fair a feat of arms as ever you beheld!  But I
crave your pardon," added he, displaying his white teeth with a
merry laugh; "the state of my own land has taught me to look on
every castle with eyes for attack and defence, and your brother
tells me I am not behind my countrymen in what you English call
gasconades."

"You have seen many sieges and passages of arms?" asked Eustace,
looking up in his face with an expression at once puzzled and
respectful.

"Since our castle of Albricorte was sacked and burnt by the Count
de Bearn, I have seen little else--three stricken fields--two towns
stormed--castles more than I can remember."

"Alas!" said Eustace, "I have seen nothing but the muster of arms
at Taunton!"

D'Aubricour laughed.  "Look not downcast on it," said he; "you have
time before you and one year at Bordeaux is worth four elsewhere.
But I forget, you are the young clerk; and yet that scarcely accords
with that bright eye of yours, and the weapon at your side."

"They spoke once of making me a clerk," said Eustace; "but I hope
to show my brother that I am fit for his own way of life.  Sir
Squire, do but tell me, do you think I look unfit to sustain the
honour of my name?"

"Mere strength is little," said the Squire, "else were that comely
giant John Ingram, the best warrior in the army.  Nor does height
reckon for much; Du Guesclin himself is of the shortest.  Nor do
you look like the boy over whose weakly timid nature I have heard
Sir Reginald lament," he proceeded, surveying him with a critical
eye.

Eustace had, in fact, hardly reached the middle height, and was
very slender; his limbs were, however, well proportioned, his
step firm, and every movement full of activity and grace.  His
face, shaded with bright chestnut hair, was of a delicate
complexion, the features finely moulded, and the usual cast of
expression slightly thoughtful; but there was frequently, and
especially at this moment, a bright kindling light in the dark
blue eyes, which changed the whole countenance from the grave
and refined look of the young scholar to the bold ardent glance
of the warrior.

"A cavalier, every inch of you!" cried d'Aubricour, striking
Eustace on the shoulder as he concluded his inspection.  "I'll
have the training of you, my _gentil damoiseau_, and see if I do
not make you as _preux a chevalier_ as the most burly giant of
them all.  Here, know you this trick?"

He caught up one of the lances which the men had laid aside; Eustace
followed his example, and acquitted himself to his satisfaction in
one or two chivalrous manoeuvres, till a summons to supper put an
end to the sport.






CHAPTER 2



The house of Lynwood had long been famed for loyalty, which had
often cost them dear, since their neighbours, the Lords of
Clarenham, never failed to take advantage of the ascendency of
the popular party, and make encroachments on their privileges and
possessions.

Thus when Sir Hugo Lynwood, the old Crusader, was made prisoner
by Simon de Montfort's party at Lewes, he was treated with great
severity, in order to obtain from him a recognition of the feudal
superiority of the Clarenhams; and though the success of the royal
party at Evesham occasioned his liberation, his possessions were
greatly diminished.  Nor had the turmoils of the reign of Edward
II. failed to leave their traces on the fortunes of the Lynwoods.
Sir Henry, father of the present Knight, was a staunch adherent of
the unfortunate monarch, and even joined the hapless Edmund, Earl
of Kent, in the rising in which that Prince was entrapped after the
murder of his brother.  On this occasion, it was only Sir Henry's
hasty flight that preserved his life, and his lands were granted
to the Baron Simon de Clarenham by the young Edward III., then under
the dominion of his mother Isabel, and Roger Mortimer; but when at
length the King had freed himself from their trammels, the whole
county of Somerset rose to expel the intruders from Lynwood Keep,
and reinstate its true master.  Nor did Simon de Clarenham make
much resistance, for well knowing that an appeal to the King
would occasion and instant revocation of the grant, he judged
it advisable to allow it to sleep for the present.

Sir Henry Lynwood, therefore, lived and died unmolested.  His
eldest son, Reginald, was early sent to the Royal Camp, where he
soon distinguished himself, and gained the favour and friendship
of the gallant Prince of Wales.  The feud with the Clarenhams
seemed to be completely extinguished, when Reginald, chiefly by
the influence of the Prince, succeeded in obtaining the hand of
a lady of that family, the daughter of a brave Knight slain in
the wars in Brittany.

Since this time, both the Baron de Clarenham and his son, Sir
Fulk, had been on good terms with the Knight of Lynwood, and the
connection had been drawn still closer by the Baron's second
marriage with the Lady Muriel de la Poer, a near relative of Sir
Reginald's mother.  Many a time had Dame Eleanor Lynwood ridden
to Clarenham castle, under the escort of her young brother-in-law,
to whom such a change from the lonely old Keep afforded no small
delight.

Eustace, the only one of Sir Henry's younger children who survived
the rough nursing or the over-nursing, whichever it might be, that
thinned in former days the families of nobles and gentleman, might
as well, in the opinion of almost all, have rested beneath a quaint
little image of his infant figure, in brass, in the vaults of the
little Norman chapel; for he was a puny, ailing child, apt to
scandalize his father and brother, and their warlike retainers, by
being scared at the dazzling helm and nodding crest, and preferring
the seat at this mother's feet, the fairy tale of the old nurse,
the song of the minstrel, or the book of the Priest, to horse and
hound, or even to the sight of the martial sports of the tilt-yard.

The last five years had, however, wrought a great change in him; he
began to outgrow the delicacy of his constitution, and with it, to
shake off his timidity of disposition.  A diligent perusal of the
romances of chivalry filled him with emulation, and he had applied
himself ardently to all knightly exercises, looking with great
eagerness to the time when he might appear in the Prince's court.
He had invested it with all the glory of the Round Table and of the
Paladins; and though he knew he must not look for Merlin or the
Siege Perilous, the men themselves were in his fancy Rolands and
Tristrems, and he scarcely dared to hope he could ever be fit to
make one of them, with all his diligent attention to old Ralph's
instructions.

Some of Ralph's manoeuvres were indeed rather antiquated, and
afforded much amusement to Gaston d'Aubricour, who was never weary
of teasing the old seneschal with descriptions of the changes in
the fashion of weapons, tourneys, and machines, and especially
delighted in histories of the marvellous effects of gunpowder.
Ralph would shake his head, vow that it would soon put an end to
all true chivalry, and walk off to furbish his favourite cross-bow,
with many a murmured reflection on the folly of quitting good old
plans, and especially on that of his master, who must needs bring
home a gibing Gascon, when honest English Squires were not scarce.

Very different was the state of the old Keep of Lynwood from the
quiet, almost deserted condition, in which it had been left so long,
now that the Knight had again taken his wonted place amongst the
gentry of the county.  Entertainments were exchanged with his
neighbours, hunting and hawking matches, and all the sports of the
tilt-yard, followed each other in quick succession, and the summer
passed merrily away.  Merrily, that is to say, with Sir Reginald,
whose stirring life in camp and court had left him but few and
short intervals for enjoying his home and the society of his wife;
with Eleanor, who, relieved from long anxiety, began to recover
the spirits and health which had nearly failed her; and with Eustace,
to whom the arrival of his brother and his followers brought a
continued course of novelty and delight; but less joyously with
the Knight's followers, who regretted more and more the gay court
of Bordeaux, and grew impatient at the prospect of spending a
tedious winter in a peaceful English castle.

Their anticipation of weariness, and the contrary expectations of
Sir Reginald, were destined to be equally disappointed: for two
months had not passed since his return before a summons arrived,
or, more properly speaking, an invitation to the trusty and well-
beloved Sir Reginald Lynwood to join the forces which the Duke of
Lancaster was assembling at Southampton, the Prince of Wales having
promised to assist King Pedro of Castile in recovering the kingdom
from which he had been driven by his brother Enrique of Trastamare.

Sir Reginald could not do otherwise than prepare with alacrity
to obey the call of his beloved Prince, though he marvelled that
Edward should draw his sword in the cause of such a monster of
cruelty, and he was more reluctant than ever before to leave his
home.  He even promised his sorrowful Eleanor that this should
be the last time he would leave her.  "I will but bestow Eustace
in some honourable household, where he may be trained in knightly
lore--that of Chandos, perchance, or some other of the leaders who
hold the good old strict rule; find good masters for my honest men-
at-arms; break one more lance with Du Guesclin; and take to rule
my vassals, till my fields, and be the honest old country Knight
my father was before me.  Said I well, Dame Eleanor?"

Eleanor smiled, but the next moment sighed and drooped her head,
while a tear fell on the blue silk with which she was embroidering
the crosslet on his pennon.  Sir Reginald might have said somewhat
to cheer her, but at that instant little Arthur darted into the
hall with news that the armourer was come from Taunton, with two
mules, loaded with a store of goodly helmets, swords, and corselets,
which he was displaying in the court.

The Knight immediately walked forth into the court, where all had
been activity and eagerness ever since the arrival of the summons,
the smith hammering ceaselessly in his forge, yet without fulfilling
half the order continually shouted in his ears; Gaston d'Aubricour
and Ralph Penrose directing from morning to night, in contradiction
of each other, the one always laughing, the other always grumbling;
the men-at-arms and retainers some obeying orders, others being
scolded, the steel clanging, hammers ringing without intermission.
Most of the party, such at least as could leave their employment
without a sharp reprimand from one or the other of the contending
authorities, the Seneschal and the Squire, were gathered round the
steps, where the armourer was displaying, with many an encomium,
his bundles of lances, his real Toledo blades, and his helmets
of the choicest fashion.  Gaston d'Aubricour and Ralph were
disputing respecting a certain suit of armour, which the latter
disapproved, because it had no guards for the knees, while the
former contended that the only use for such protections was to
disable a man from walking, and nearly from standing when once
unhorsed.

"In my day, Master d'Aubricour, it was not the custom for a brave
man-at-arms to look to being unhorsed; but times are changed."

"Ay, that they are, Master Penrose, for in our day we do not give
ourselves over the moment we are down, and lie closed up in our
shells like great land tortoises turned on their backs, waiting
till some one is good enough to find his way through our shell
with the _misericorde_."

"Peace, peace, Gaston," said the Knight.  "If we acquit ourselves
as well as our fathers, we shall have little to be ashamed of.
What think you of this man's gear?"

"That I could pick up a better suit for half the price at old
Battista, the Lombard's at Bordeaux; nevertheless, since young
Eustace would be the show of the camp if he appeared there
provided in Ralph's fashion, it may be as well to see whether
there be any reasonableness in this old knave."

Before the question was decided, the trampling of horses was heard,
and there rode into the court an elderly man, whose dress and
bearing showed him to be of consideration, accompanied by a youth
of eighteen or nineteen, and attended by two servants.  Sir
Reginald and his brother immediately stepped forward to receive
them.

"Sir Philip Ashton," said the former, "how is it with you?  This
is friendly in you to come and bid us farewell."

"I grieve that it should be farewell, Sir Reginald," said the old
Knight, dismounting whilst Eustace held his stirrup; "our country
can ill spare such men as you.  Thanks, my young friend Eustace.
See, Leonard, what good training will do for an Esquire; Eustace
has already caught that air and courteous demeanour that cannot be
learnt here among us poor Knights of Somerset."

This was to his son, who, with a short abrupt reply to the good-
natured greeting of Sir Reginald, had scrambled down from his
saddle, and stood fixing his large gray eyes upon Gaston, whose
tall active figure and lively dark countenance seemed to afford
him an inexhaustible subject of study.  The Squire was presented
by name to Sir Philip, received a polite compliment, and replying
with a bow, turned to the youth with the ready courtesy of one
willing to relieve the shyness of an awkward stranger.  "We were
but now discussing the merit between damasked steel and chain mail,
what opinion do you bring to aid us?"  A renewed stare, an
inarticulate muttering, and Master Leonard turned away and almost
hid his face in the mane of his horse, whilst his father attempted
to make up for his incivility by a whole torrent of opinions, to
which Gaston listened with the outward submission due from a Squire,
but with frequent glances, accompanied by a tendency to elevate
shoulder or eyebrow, which Eustace understood full well to convey
that the old gentleman knew nothing whatever on the subject.

This concluded, Sir Philip went to pay his respects to the Lady of
Lynwood, and then, as the hour of noon had arrived, all partook of
the meal, which was served in the hall, the Squires waiting on the
Knights and the Lady before themselves sitting down to table.

It was the influence of dinner that first unchained the silent
tongue of Leonard Ashton, when he found himself seated next to
his old acquaintance, Eustace Lynwood, out of hearing of those
whose presence inspired him with shyness, and the clatter of
knives and trenchers drowning his voice.

"So your brother has let you bear sword after all.  How like you
the trade?  Better than poring over crabbed parchments, I trow.
But guess you why we are here to-day?  My father says that I must
take service with some honourable Knight, and see somewhat of the
world.  He spoke long of the Lord de Clarenham, because his favour
would be well in the county; but at last he has fixed on your
brother, because he may do somewhat for me with the Prince."

"Then you are going with us to Bordeaux?" exclaimed Eustace, eagerly.

"Ay, truly."

"Nay, but that is a right joyful hearing!" said Eustace.  "Old
friends should be brethren in arms."

"But, Eustace," said young Ashton, lowering his voice to a
confidential whisper, "I like not that outlandish Squire, so
tall and black.  Men say he is a Moor--a worshipper of Mahound."

Eustace laughed heartily at this report, and assured his friend
that, though he had heard his brother often give his Squire in
jest his _nom de guerre_ of _Gaston le Maure_, yet d'Aubricour
was a gallant gentleman of Gascony.  But still Leonard was not
satisfied.  "Had ever man born in Christian land such flashing
black eyes and white teeth?  And is not he horribly fierce and
strict?"

"Never was man of kinder heart and blither temper."

"Then you think that he will not be sharp with us?  'More straight
in your saddle!' 'lance lower!' 'head higher;' that is what has
been ringing in my ears from morning till night of late, sometimes
enforced by a sharp blow on the shoulders.  Is it not so with you?"

"Oh, old Penrose took all that trouble off their hands long ago.
Gaston is the gentlest of tutors compared with him."

"I hope so!" sighed Leonard; "my very bones ache with the tutoring
I get from my father at home.  And, Eustace, resolve me this--"

"Hush, do not you see that Father Cyril is about to pronounce the
Grace--.  There--now must I go and serve your father with the grace-
cup, but I will be with you anon."

Leonard put his elbow on the table, mumbling to himself, "And
these of Eustace's be the courtly manners my father would have
me learn; they cost a great deal too much trouble!"

The meal over, Eustace took Leonard into the court to visit the
horses and inspect the new armour.  They were joined by Gaston,
who took upon himself to reply to the question which Leonard wished
to have resolved, namely, what they were to do in Castile, by
persuading him to believe that Enrique of Trastamare was a giant
twenty feet high, who rode a griffin of proportionate dimensions,
and led an army whose heads grew under their shoulders.

In the meantime, Sir Philip Ashton was, with many polite speeches,
entering upon the business of his visit, which was to request Sir
Reginald to admit his son into his train as an Esquire.  The Knight
of Lynwood, though not very desirous of this addition to his
followers, could not well refuse him, in consideration of the
alliance which had long subsisted between the two houses; but he
mentioned his own purpose of quitting the Prince's court as soon
as the present expedition should be concluded.

"That," said Sir Philip, softly, "will scarce be likely.  Such
Knights as Sir Reginald Lynwood are not so easily allowed to hide
themselves in obscurity.  The Prince of Wales knows too well the
value of his right-hand counsellor."

"Nay, Sir Philip," said Sir Reginald, laughing, "that is rather too
fine a term for a rough soldier, who never was called into counsel
at all, except for the arraying a battle.  It would take far sharper
wits than mine, or, indeed, I suspect, than any that we have at
Bordeaux, to meet the wiles of Charles of France.  No, unless the
Royal Banner be abroad in the field, you may look to see me here
before another year is out."

"I shall hope it may be otherwise, for my boy's sake," said Sir
Philip.  "But be that as it may, his fame will be secured by his
going forth for the first time with such a leader as yourself.  The
example and friendship of your brother will also be of the utmost
service.  Your chief Squire too--so perfect in all chivalrous
training, and a foreigner--who better could be found to train a
poor Somersetshire clown for the Prince's Gascon court?"

"Why, for that matter," interrupted Sir Reginald, whose patience
would seldom serve his to the end of one of his neighbour's
harangues, "it may be honest to tell you that though Gaston is a
kindly-tempered fellow, and of right knightly bearing, his life
has been none of the most steady.  I took up with him a couple
of years since, when poor old Humfrey Harwood was slain at Auray,
and I knew not where to turn for a Squire.  Save for a few wild
freaks now and then, he has done right well, though I sometimes
marvelled at his choosing to endure my strict household.  He
obeys my orders, and has made himself well liked by the men,
and I willingly trust Eustace with him, since the boy is of
a grave clerkly sort of turn, and under my own eye; but it is
for you to do as you will with your son."

"Is he of honourable birth?" asked Sir Philip.

"At least he bears coat armour," answered Reginald.  "His shield
is _gules_, a wolf _passant_, _or_, and I have heard strange tales
of his father, Beranger d'Aubricour, the Black Wolf of the Pyrenees,
as he was called, one of the robber noblesse of the Navarrese
border; but I have little time for such matters, and they do not
dwell in my mind.  If I find a man does his duty in my service, I
care not whence he comes, nor what his forefathers may have been.
I listen to no such idle tales; but I thought it best to warn you
that I answer not for all the comrades your son may find in my
troop."

"Many thanks, noble Sir Reginald; under such care as yours he
cannot fail to prosper; I am secure of his welfare in your hands.
One word more, Sir Reginald, I pray you.  You are all-powerful
with Prince Edward.  My poor boy's advancement is in your hand.
One word in his favour to the Prince--a hint of the following I
could send his pennon--"

"Sir Philip," said Reginald, "you overrate my influence, and
underrate the Prince's judgment, if you imagine aught save personal
merit would weigh with him.  Your son shall have every opportunity
of deserving his notice, but whether it be favourable or not must
depend on himself.  If you desire more, you must not seek it of me."

Sir Philip protested that this was all he wished, and after
reiterating his thanks, took his leave, promising that Leonard
should be at Lynwood Keep on the next Monday, the day fixed
for Sir Reginald's departure.






CHAPTER III



The morning of departure arrived.  The men-at-arms were drawn up
in the court like so many statues of steel; Leonard Ashton sat on
horseback, his eyes fixed on the door; Gaston d'Aubricour, wrapped
in his gay mantle, stood caressing his Arab steed Brigliador, and
telling him they should soon exchange the chilly fogs of England
for the bright sun of Gascony; Ralph Penrose held his master's
horse, and a black powerful charger was prepared for Eustace, but
still the brothers tarried.

"My Eleanor, this should not be!" said Reginald as his wife clung
to him weeping.  "Keep a good heart.  'Tis not for long.  Take
heed of your dealings with cousin Fulk.  She knows not what I say.
Father Cyril, keep guard over her and my boy, in case I should meet
with any mishap."

"I will, assuredly, my son," said the Chaplain, "but it is little
that a poor Priest like me can do.  I would that grant to the
Clarenhams were repealed."

"That were soon done," said Reginald, "but it is no time for a
loyal vassal to complain of grievances when his liege lord has
summoned him to the field.  That were to make the King's need
be his law.  No! no!  Watch over her, good father, she is weak
and tender.  Look up, sweet heart, give me one cheerful wish to
speed me on my journey.  No?  She has swooned.  Eleanor! my wife--"

"Begone, begone, my son," said Father Cyril, "it will be the better
for her."

"It may be," said Reginald, "yet to leave her thus--  Here, nurse,
support her, tend her well.  Give her my tenderest greetings.
Arthur, be duteous to her; talk to her of our return; farewell,
my boy, and blessings on you.  Eustace, mount."

Sir Reginald, sighing heavily, swung himself into the saddle;
Eustace waited a moment longer.  "Good Father, this was to have
been in poor Eleanor's charge.  It is the token, you know for
whom."

"It shall reach her, my son."

"You will send me a letter whenever you can?"

"Truly, I will; and I would have you read and write, especially in
Latin, when you have the chance--good gifts should not be buried.
Bethink you, too, that you will not have the same excuse for sin
as the rude ignorant men you will meet."

"Eustace!" hastily called Reginald, and with a hurried farewell
to all around, the young Squire sprang on horseback, and the troop
rode across the drawbridge.  They halted on the mound beyond; Sir
Reginald shook his pennon, till the long white swallow tails
streamed on the wind, then placed it in the hands of Eustace, and
saying, "On, Lances of Lynwood!  In the name of God, St. George,
and King Edward, do your devoir;" he spurred his horse forward, as
if only desirous to be out of sight of his own turrets, and forget
the parting, the pain of which still heaved his breast and dimmed
his eye.

A few days brought the troop to Southampton, where John of Gaunt
was collecting his armament, and with it they embarked, crossed to
St. Malo, and thence proceeded to Bordeaux, but there found that
the Prince of Wales had already set forth, and was waiting for his
brother at Dax.

Advancing immediately, at the end of three days they came in sight
of the forces encamped around that town.  Glorious was the scene
before them, the green plain covered in every direction with white
tents, surmounted with the banners or pennons of their masters,
the broad red Cross of St. George waving proudly in the midst,
and beside it the royal Lions and Castles of the two Spanish
monarchies.  To the south, the snowy peaks of the Pyrenees began
to gleam white like clouds against the sky, and the gray sea-line
to the west closed the horizon.  Eustace drew his rein, and gazed
in silent admiration, and Gaston, riding by his side, pointed out
the several bearings and devices which, to the warrior of that day,
spoke as plainly (often more so) as written words.  "See yonder,
the tent of my brave countryman, the Captal de Buch, close to that
of the Prince, as is ever his wont.  No doubt he is willing to wipe
away the memory of his capture at Auray.  There, to the left, _gules_
and _argent_, per _pale_, is the pennon of the stout old Englishman,
Chandos.  Ha! I see the old Free Companions are here with Sir Hugh
Calverly!  Why, 'twas but the other day they were starting to set
this very Don Enrique on the throne as blithely as they now go to
drive him from his."

While Gaston spoke, the sound of horses' feet approached rapidly
from another quarter, and a small party came in sight, the
foremost of whom checked his bridle, as, at Reginald's signal,
his Lances halted and drew respectfully aside.  He was a man
about thirty-six years of age, and looking even younger, from the
remarkable fairness and delicacy of his complexion.  The perfect
regularity of his noble features, together with the commanding,
yet gentle expression of his clear light blue eyes, would, even
without the white ostrich feather in his black velvet cap, have
enabled Eustace to recognize in him the flower of chivalry, Edward,
Prince of Wales.

"Welcome, my trusty Reginald!" exclaimed he.  "I knew that the Lances
of Lynwood would not be absent where knightly work is to be done.  Is
my brother John arrived?"

"Yes, my Lord," replied Reginald; "I parted from him but now as he
rode to the castle, while I came to seek where to bestow my knaves."

"I know you of old for a prudent man," said the Prince, smiling;
"the Provost Marshal hath no acquaintance with that gallant little
band.  Methinks I see there a fair face like enough to yours to
belong to another loyal Lynwood."

"I could wish it were a little browner and more manly, my Lord,"
said Reginald.  "It is my brother Eustace, who has been suffered
(I take shame to myself for it) to tarry at home as my Lady's page,
till he looks as white as my Lady herself."

"We will soon find a cure for that in the sun of Castile," said
Edward.  "You are well provided with Squires.  The men of Somerset
know where good training is to be found for their sons."

"This, my Lord, is the son of Sir Philip Ashton, a loyal Knight of
our country."

"He is welcome," said the Prince.  "We have work for all.  Let me
see you this evening at supper in my tent."

"Well, Eustace, what sayest thou?" said Gaston, as the Prince rode on.

"A Prince to dream of, a Prince for whom to give a thousand lives!"
said Eustace.

"And that was the Prince of Wales!" said Leonard.  "Why, he spoke
just like any other man."

The two tents of the Lances of Lynwood having been erected, and all
arrangements made, the Knights and Squires set out for the Prince's
pavilion, the white curtains of which were conspicuous in the centre
of the camp.  Within, it was completely lined with silk, embroidered
with the various devices of the Prince: the lions of England--the
lilies of France--the Bohemian ostrich-plume, with its humble motto,
the white rose, not yet an emblem of discord--the blue garter and
the red cross, all in gorgeous combination--a fitting background,
as it were, on which to display the chivalrous groups seen in relief
against it.

At the upper end was placed a long table for the Prince and his
guests, and here Sir Reginald took his seat, with many a hearty
welcome from his friends and companions in arms, while Gaston
led his comrades to the lower end, where Squires and pages were
waiting for the provisions brought in by the servants, which they
were to carry to their Knights.  Gaston was soon engaged in
conversation with his acquaintance, to some of whom he introduced
Eustace and Leonard, but the former found far more interesting
occupation in gazing on the company seated at the upper table.

The Black Prince himself occupied the centre, his brother John at
his left hand, and at his right, a person whom both this post of
honour and the blazonry of his surcoat marked out as the dethroned
King of Castile.  Pedro the Cruel had not, however, the forbidding
countenance which imagination would ascribe to him; his features
were of the fair and noble type of the old royal Gothic race of
Spain; he had a profusion of flaxen hair, and large blue eyes,
rather too prominent, and but for his receding forehead, and the
expression of his lips, he would have been a handsome man of
princely mien.  Something, too, there was of fear, something of
a scowl; he seemed to shrink from the open and manly demeanour of
Edward, and to turn with greater ease to converse with John, who,
less lofty in character than his brother, better suited his nature.

There, too, Eustace beheld the stalwart form and rugged features of
Sir John Chandos; the slender figure and dark sparkling southern
face of the Captal de Buch; the rough joyous boon-companion visage
of Sir Hugh Calverly, the free-booting warrior; the youthful form
of the young step-son of the Prince, Lord Thomas Holland; the rude
features of the Breton Knight, Sir Oliver de Clisson, soon to be
the bitterest foe of the standard beneath which he was now fighting.
Many were there whose renown had charmed the ears of the young Squire
of Lynwood Keep, and he looked on the scene with the eagerness with
which he would have watched some favourite romance suddenly done
into life and action.

"Eustace!  What, Eustace, in a trance?" said d'Aubricour.  "Waken,
and carry this trencher of beef to your brother.  Best that you
should do it," he added in a low voice, taking up a flask of wine,
"and save our comrade from at once making himself a laughing-stock."

The discontented glance with which Leonard's eyes followed his
fellow Squires, did not pass unobserved by a person with whom
d'Aubricour had exchanged a few words, a squarely-made, dark-
visaged man, with a thick black beard, and a huge scar which had
obliterated one eye; his equipment was that of a Squire, but
instead of, like others of the same degree, attending on the
guests at the upper table, he sat carelessly sideways on the
bench, with one elbow on the board.

"You gaze after that trencher as if you wished your turn was come,"
said he, in a patois of English and French, which Leonard could
easily understand, although he had always turned a deaf ear to
Gaston's attempts to instruct him in the latter language.  However,
a grunt was his only reply.

"Or," pursued the Squire, "have you any fancy for carrying it
yourself?  I, for my part, think we are well quit of the trouble."

"Why, ay," said Leonard, "but I trow I have as much right to serve
at the Prince's table as dainty Master Eustace.  My father had never
put me under Sir Reginald's charge, had he deemed I should be kept
here among the serving-men."

"Sir Reginald?  Which Sir Reginald has the honour of your service?"
asked the Squire, to whom Leonard's broad Somersetshire dialect
seemed to present few difficulties.

"Sir Reginald Lynwood, he with the curled brown locks, next to that
stern-looking old fellow with the gray hair."

"Ay, I know him of old.  Him whom the Duke of Lancaster is pledging
--a proud, strict Englishman--as rigid a service as any in the camp."

"I should think so!" said Leonard.  "Up in the morn hours before
the sun, to mass like a choir of novices, to clean our own arms
and the Knight's, like so many horse-boys, and if there be but a
speck of rust, or a sword-belt half a finger's length awry--"

"Ay, ay, I once had a fortnight's service with a Knight of that
stamp, but a fortnight was enough for me, I promise you.  And
yet Gaston le Maure chooses to stay with him rather than lead a
merry life with Sir Perduccas d'Albret, with all to gain, and
nought to lose!  A different life from the days he and I spent
together of old."

"Gaston d'Aubricour is as sharp as the Knight himself," said Leonard,
"and gibes me without ceasing; but yet I could bear it all, were it
not for seeing Eustace, the clerk, preferred to me, as if I were not
heir to more acres than he can ever count crowns."

"What may then be your name, fair youth, and your inheritance?"
demanded the one-eyed Squire, "for your coat of arms is new in
the camp."

"My name is Leonard Ashton; my father--" but Leonard's speech was
cut short by a Squire who stumbled over his outstretched foot.  Both
parties burst into angry exclamations, Leonard's new acquaintance
taking his part.  Men looked up, and serious consequences might have
ensued, had not Gaston hastened to the spot.  "Shame on you, young
malapert," said he to his hopeful pupil.  "Cannot I leave you one
moment unwatched, but you must be brawling in the Prince's own
presence?  Here, bear this bread to Sir Reginald instantly, and
leave me to make your peace.  Master Clifford," added he, as Leonard
shuffled away, "'tis an uncouth slip whom Sir Reginald Lynwood has
undertaken to mould into form, and if he is visited as he deserves
for each piece of discourtesy, his life will not be long enough for
amendment, so I must e'en beg you to take my apology."

"Most readily, Master d'Aubricour," replied Clifford; "there would
not have been the least offence had the youth only possessed a civil
tongue."

"Is not he the son of one of your wealthy Englishmen?" asked the
one-eyed Squire, carelessly.

"Ha!  Why should you think so?" said Gaston, turning sharply;
"because he shows so much good nurture?"

"Because his brains are grown fat with devouring his father's
beeves, fare on which you seem to thrive, le Maure," said the
one-eyed, "though you were not wont to like English beef and
English discipline better than Gascon wine and Gascon freedom.
I begin to think that the cub of the Black Wolf of the Pyrenees
is settling down into a tame English house-dog."

"He has teeth and claws at your service," replied Gaston.

"Ay?" said the Squire interrogatively; then, changing his tone, "But
tell me honestly, Gaston, repent you not of having taken service with
gallant Sir Perduccas?"

"Why, you have left him yourself."

"Yes, because we had sharp words on the spoil of a Navarrese
village.  My present leader, Sir William Felton, is as free and
easy as d'Albret, or Aymerigot Marcel himself.  And is not yon
ungainly varlet the hope of some rich English house?"

"I must see their hopes meet with no downfall," said Gaston, walking
away, and muttering to himself.  "A plague upon it!  To train two
boys is more than I bargained for, and over and above to hinder this
wiseacre Ashton from ruining himself, or being ruined by _le Borgne
Basque_!  What brought him here?  I thought he was safe in Castile
with the Free Companions.  I would let the oaf take his course, for
a wilful wrong-headed fool, but that it would scarce be doing good
service to Sir Reginald."

The Knights had nearly finished their meal, and the Squires having
served them with wine, returned to their own table, now freshly
supplied with meat, which the yeomen in their turn carved for them.
Gaston kept Leonard under his own eye till the party broke up.

On the way to the tent, he began to take him to task.  "A proper
commencement!  Did you take the Prince's pavilion for one of your
own island hostels, where men may freely brawl and use their fists
without fear of aught save the parish constable?"

"What business had he to tread on my foot?" growled Leonard.

"What business had your foot there?  Was not your office, as I told
you, to stand ready to hand me whatever I might call for?"

"I was speaking a few words to another gentleman."

"The fewer words you speak to _le Borgne Basque_ the better, unless
you think it is Sir Reginald's pleasure that you should be instructed
in all the dicing and drinking in this camp, and unless you wish that
the crowns with which your father stored your pouch should jingle in
his pockets.  It is well for you the Knight marked you not."

"You held long enough parley with him yourself," said the refractory
pupil.

"Look you, Master Leonard Ashton, I do not presume to offer myself
as an example to you save, perhaps, in the matter of sitting a steed,
or handing a wine-cup.  I have no purse to lose, and I have wit to
keep it if I had, or at least," as a recollection crossed him, "if
I lost it, it should be to please myself, and not _le Borgne Basque_;
above all, my name and fame are made, and yours--"

"What would you say of mine?" said Leonard, with sulky indignation.
"The heir of Ashton is not to be evened to a wandering landless
foreigner."

"It is not in sight of these mountain peaks," said Gaston,
contemptuously, "that I am to be called a foreigner; and as to being
landless, if I chose to take my stand on the old tower of Albricorte,
and call myself Lord of the whole hill-side, I should like to see
who would gainsay me.  For name, I suspect you will find that many
a man has trembled at the sound of Beranger d'Albricorte, to whom
Ashton would be but that of an English clown.  Moreover, in this
camp I would have you to know that the question is, not who has the
broadest lands, but who has the strongest arm.  And, sir Squire, if
you are not above listening to a piece of friendly counsel, to brag
of those acres of yours is the surest way to attract spoilers.  I
had rather a dozen time trust Eustace in such company than you, not
only because he has more wit, but because he has less coin."

"Who is this man?  What is his name?" asked Eustace.

"_Le Borgne Basque_, I know no other," said Gaston.  "We reck little
of names here, especially when it may be convenient to have them
forgotten.  He is a Free Companion, a _routier_, brave enough,
but more ready at the sack than the assault, and loving best to
plunder, waste, and plunder again, or else to fleece such sheep
as our friend here."

"How could such a man gain entrance to the Prince's pavilion?"

"Stout hearts and strong arms find entrance in most places," said
Gaston; "but, as you saw, he durst not appear at the upper table."

The next morning the army began their march to the Pyrenees.  They
halted for some days at the foot of the hills, whilst negotiations
were passing between the Black Prince and Charles the Bad, King of
Navarre, who might easily have prevented their entrance into the
Peninsula by refusing a passage through his mountain fastnesses.

When the permission was granted, they advanced with considerable
danger and difficulty.  The rugged paths were covered with snow
and ice, which made them doubly perilous for the horses, and but
for Gaston's familiarity with his native hills, Sir Reginald
declared that he could never have brought his little troop
across them in safety.

At length they emerged through the celebrated Pass of Roncesvalles,
where Eustace in imagination listened to the echoes of the dying
blast of Roland.  On the following evening he had the delight of
reading his history in the veritable pages of Archbishop Turpin,
which precious work he found in the possession of Brother Waleran,
a lay-friar, in the employment of Sir John Froissart the chronicler,
who had sent him with the army as a reporter of the events of the
campaign.  This new acquaintance gave very little satisfaction to
Sir Reginald, who was almost ready to despair of Eustace's courage
and manhood when he found he had "gone back to his books," and
manifested, if not so much serious displeasure, yet even more
annoyance, on this occasion, than when, shortly after, he found
that Leonard Ashton spent every moment at his own disposal in the
company of _le Borgne Basque_.  That worthy, meeting the young
gentleman, had easily persuaded him that Gaston's cautions only
proceeded from fears of stories that might with too much truth
be told against himself, and by skilful flatteries of the young
Englishman's self-importance, and sympathy with his impatience
of the strict rule of the Knight of Lynwood, succeeded in
establishing over him great influence.

So fared it with the two young Squires, whilst the army began
to enter the dominions of the King of Castile.  Here a want of
provisions was severely felt, for such was the hatred borne to
Pedro the Cruel, that every inhabitant of the country fled at his
approach, carrying off, or destroying, all that could be used as
food.  It was the intention of Bertrand du Guesclin, the ally of
Enrique of Trastamare, to remain quietly in his camp of Navaretta,
and allow hunger to do its work with the invading force, but this
prudent plan was prevented by the folly of Don Tello, brother of
Enrique, who, accusing Bertrand of cowardice, so stung his fiery
spirit that he resolved on instant combat, though knowing how
little dependence could be placed on his Spanish allies.

The challenge of the Prince of Wales was therefore accepted; and
never were tidings more welcome than these to the half-famished
army, encamped upon the banks of the Ebro, on the same ground on
which, in after years, English valour was once more to turn to
flight a usurping King of Spain.






CHAPTER IV



The moon was at her height, and shone full into the half-opened
tent of Sir Reginald Lynwood.  At the further end, quite in
darkness, the Knight, bare-headed, and rosary in hand, knelt
before the dark-robed figure of a confessor, while at a short
distance lay, on a couch of deer-skins, the sleeping Leonard
Ashton.  Before the looped-up curtain that formed the door was
Gaston d'Aubricour, on one knee, close to a huge torch of pine-
wood fixed in the earth, examining by its flaring smoky light
into the state of his master's armour, proving every joint with
a small hammer.  Near him, Eustace, with the help of John Ingram,
the stalwart yeoman, was fastening his charge, the pennon, to a
mighty lance of the toughest ash-wood, and often looking forth on
the white tents on which the moonbeams shed their pale, tranquil
light.  There was much to impress a mind like his, in the scene
before him: the unearthly moonlight, the few glimmering stars,
the sky--whose southern clearness and brightness were, to his
unaccustomed eye, doubly wonderful--the constant though subdued
sounds in the camp, the murmur of the river, and, far away in
the dark expanse of night, the sparkling of a multitude of lights,
which marked the encampment of the enemy.  There was a strange
calm awe upon his spirit.  He spoke in a low voice, and Gaston's
careless light-hearted tones fell on his ear as something
uncongenial; but his eye glanced brightly, his step was free
and bold, as he felt that this was the day that must silence
every irritating doubt of his possessing a warrior-spirit.

The first red streak of dawn was beginning to glow in the eastern
sky, when the note of a bugle rang out from the Prince's tent and
was responded to by hundreds of other horns.  That instant the
quiet slumbering camp awoke, the space in front of every tent
was filled with busy men, arming themselves, or saddling their
horses.  Gaston and Eustace, already fully equipped, assisted Sir
Reginald to arm; Leonard was roused, and began to fasten on his
armour; the men-at-arms came forth from their tent, and the horses
were saddled and bridled; "And now," called Sir Reginald, "bring
our last loaf, John Ingram.  Keep none back.  By this day's eve
we shall have abundance, or else no further need."

The hard dry barley-bread was shared in scanty, but equal measure,
and scarcely had it been devoured, before a second bugle blast,
pealing through the camp, caused each mail-clad warrior to close
his visor, and spring into the open plain, where, according to
previous orders, they arrayed themselves in two divisions, the
first commanded by the Duke of Lancaster and Sir John Chandos,
the second by Prince Edward and Don Pedro.

After a pause, employed in marshalling the different bands, the
host advanced at an even pace, the rising sun glancing on their
armour, and revealing the multitude of waving crests, and streamers
fluttering from the points of the lances, like the wings of
gorgeous insects.  Presently a wall of glittering armour was seen
advancing to meet them, with the same brilliant display.  It might
have seemed some mighty tournament that was there arrayed, as the
two armies stood confronting each other, rather than a stern battle
for the possession of a kingdom; and well might old Froissart
declare, "It was a pleasure to see such hosts."

But it would be presumptuous to attempt to embellish a tale after
Froissart has once touched it.  To him, then, I leave it to tell
how the rank of banneret was conferred on the gallant old Chandos,
how the Prince prayed aloud for a blessing on his arms, how he
gave the signal for the advance, and how the boaster, Tello, fled
in the first encounter.  The Lances of Lynwood, in the division of
the Duke of Lancaster, well and gallantly did their part in the
hard struggle with the brave band of French, whose resistance was
not overcome till the Black Prince himself brought his reserved
troops to the aid of his brother.

With the loss of only one man-at-arms, the Lances of Lynwood had
taken several prisoners.  It was high noon, and the field was well-
nigh cleared of the enemy, when Sir Reginald drew his rein at the
top of a steep bank clothed with brushwood, sloping towards the
stream of the Zadorra, threw up his visor, wiped his heated brow,
and, patting his horse's neck, turned to his brother, saying, "You
have seen sharp work in this your first battle-day, Eustace."

"It is a glorious day!" said Eustace.  "See how they hurry to the
water."  And he pointed over the low shrubs to a level space on
the bank of the river, where several fugitives, on foot and
horseback, were crowding together, and pressing hastily forward.

"Ha!" cried Sir Reginald, "the golden circlet!  Henry of Trastamare
himself!" and at the same instant he sprang to the ground.  "You,"
said he, "speed round the bushes, meet me at the ford they are
making for."  This was directed to Gaston, and ere the last words
were spoken, both Sir Reginald and Eustace were already beginning
to hurry down the bank.  Gaston rose to his full height in his
stirrups, and, looking over the wood, exclaimed, "The Eagle crest!
I must be there.  On, Ashton--Ingram, this way--speed, speed, speed!"
and with these words threw himself from his horse, and dashed after
the two brothers, as they went crashing, in their heavy armour,
downwards through the boughs.  In less than a minute they were on
the level ground, and Sir Reginald rushed forward to intercept Don
Enrique, who was almost close to the river.  "Yield, yield, Sir
King!" he shouted; but at the same moment another Knight on foot
threw himself between, raising a huge battle-axe, and crying, "Away,
away, Sir; leave me to deal with him!"  Enrique turned, entered the
river, and safely swam his horse to the other side, whilst his
champion was engaged in desperate conflict.

The Knight of Lynwood caught the first blow on his shield, and
returned it, but without the slightest effect on his antagonist,
who, though short in stature, and clumsily made, seemed to
possess gigantic strength.  A few moments more, and Reginald
had fallen at full length on the grass, while his enemy was
pressing on, to secure him as a prisoner, or to seize the pennon
which Eustace held.  The two Squires stood with lifted swords
before their fallen master, but it cost only another of those
irresistible strokes to stretch Gaston beside Sir Reginald, and
Eustace was left alone to maintain the struggle.  A few moments
more, and the Lances would come up--but how impossible to hold
out!  The first blow cleft his shield in two, and though it did
not pierce his armour, the shock brought him to his knee, and
without the support of the staff of the pennon he would have
been on the ground.  Still, however, he kept up his defence,
using sometimes his sword, and sometimes the staff, to parry the
strokes of his assailant; but the strife was too unequal, and
faint with violent exertion, as well as dizzied by a stroke which
the temper of his helmet had resisted, he felt that all would be
over with him in another second, when his sinking energies were
revived by the cry of "St. George," close at hand.  His enemy
relaxing his attack, he sprang to his feet, and that instant found
himself enclosed, almost swept away, by a crowd of combatants
of inferior degree, as well as his own comrades as Free Lances,
all of whose weapons were turned upon his opponent.  A sword
was lifted over the enemy's head from behind, and would the
next moment have descended, but that Eustace sprang up, dashed
it aside, cried "Shame!" and grasping the arm of the threatened
Knight, exclaimed, "Yield, yield! it is your only hope!"

"Yield? and to thee?" said the Knight; "yet it is well meant.  The
sword of Arthur himself would be of no avail.  Tiphaine was right!
It is the fated day.  Thou art of gentle birth?  I yield me then,
rescue or no rescue, the rather that I see thou art a gallant youth.
Hark you, fellows, I am a prisoner, so get off with you.
Your name, bold youth?"

"Eustace Lynwood, brother to this Knight," said Eustace, raising
his visor, and panting for breath.

"You need but a few years to nerve your arm.  But rest a while, you
are almost spent," said the prisoner, in a kind tone of patronage,
as he looked at the youthful face of his captor, which in a second
had varied from deep crimson to deadly paleness.

"My brother! my brother!" was all Eustace's answer, as he threw
himself on the grass beside Gaston, who, though bleeding fast,
had raised his master's head, and freed him from his helmet; but
his eyes were still closed, and the wound ghastly, for such had
been the force of the blow, that the shoulder was well-nigh
severed from the collarbone.  "Reginald!  O brother, look up!"
cried Eustace.  "O Gaston, does he live?"

"I have crossed swords with him before," said the prisoner.  "I
grieve for the mishap."  Then, as the soldiers crowded round, he
waved them off with a gesture of command, which they instinctively
obeyed.  "Back, clowns, give him air.  And here--one of you--bring
some water from the river.  There, he shows signs of life."

As he spoke, the clattering of horses' feet was heard--all made
way, and there rode along the bank of the river a band of Spaniards,
headed by Pedro himself, his sword, from hilt to point, streaming
with blood, and his countenance ferocious as that of a tiger. "Where
is he?" was his cry; "where is the traitor Enrique?  I will send him
to join the rest of the brood.  Where has he hidden himself?"

The prisoner, who had been assisting to life the wounded man out of
the path of the trampling horses, turned round, and replied, with
marked emphasis, "King Henry of Castile is, thanks to our Lady, safe
on the other side of the Zadorra, to recover his throne another day."

"Du Guesclin himself!  Ah, dog!" cried Pedro, his eyes glaring with
the malignity of a demon, and raising his bloody weapon to hew down
Bertrand du Guesclin, for no other was the prisoner, who stood with
folded arms, his dark eyes fixed in calm scorn on the King's face,
and his sword and axe lying at his feet.

Eustace was instantly at his side, calling out, "My Lord King, he
is my prisoner!"

"Thine!" said Pedro, with an incredulous look.  "Leave him to my
vengeance, and thou shalt have gold--half my treasury--all thy
utmost wishes can reach--"

"I give him up to none but my Lord the Prince of Wales," returned
the young Squire, undauntedly.

"Fool and caitiff! out of my path! or learn what it is to oppose
the wrath of Kings!" cried Pedro.

Eustace grasped his sword.  "Sir King, you must win your way to
him through my body."

At this moment one of the attendants whispered, "_El Principe,
Senor Rey_," and, in a few seconds more, the Black Prince, with
a few followers, rode towards the spot.

Hastily dismounting, Pedro threw himself on his knees to thank him
for the victory; but Edward, leaping from his horse, raised him,
saying, "It is not to me, but to the Giver of victories, that you
should return thanks;" and Eustace almost shuddered to see him
embrace the blood-thirsty monster, who, still intent on his prey,
began the next moment, "Here, Senor Prince, is the chief enemy--
here is the disturber of kingdoms--Du Guesclin himself--and there
stands a traitorous boy of your country, who resolutely refuses to
yield him to my just vengeance."

As Pedro spoke, the Prince exchanged with Sir Bertrand the courteous
salutation of honourable enemies, and then said, in a quiet, grave
tone, "It is not our English custom to take vengeance on prisoners
of war."

"My Lord," said Eustace, stepping forward, as the Prince looked
towards him, "I deliver the prisoner into your princely hands."

"You have our best thanks, Sir Squire," said the Prince.  "You are
the young Lynwood, if I remember right.  Where is your brother?"

"Alas! my Lord, here he lies, sorely hurt," said Eustace, only
anxious to be rid of prisoner and Prince, and to return to
Reginald, who by this time had, by the care of Gaston, been
recalled to consciousness.

"Is it so?  I grieve to hear it!" said Edward, with a face of deep
concern, advancing to the wounded Knight, bending over him, and
taking his hand, "How fares it with you, my brave Reginald?"

"Poorly enough, my Lord," said the Knight, faintly; "I would I
could have taken King Henry--"

"Lament not for that," said the Prince, "but receive my thanks for
the prize of scarcely less worth, which I owe to your arms."

"What mean you, my Lord?  Not Sir Bertrand du Guesclin; I got
nothing from him but my death-blow."

"How is this then?" said Edward; "it was from your young brother
that I received him."

"Speak, Eustace!" said Sir Reginald, eagerly, and half raising
himself; "Sir Bertrand your prisoner?  Fairly and honourably?
Is it possible?"

"Fairly and honourably, to that I testify," said Du Guesclin.  "He
knelt before you, and defended your pennon longer than I ever thought
to see one of his years resist that curtal-axe of mine. The _routier_
villains burst on us, and were closing upon me, when he turned back
the weapon that was over my head, and summoned me to yield, which I
did the more willingly that so gallant a youth should have such
honour as may be acquired by my capture."

"He has it, noble Bertrand," said Edward.  "Kneel down, young Squire.
Thy name is Eustace?  In the name of God, St. Michael, and St. George,
I dub thee Knight.  Be faithful, brave and fortunate, as on this day.  Arise, Sir Eustace Lynwood."

"Thanks, thanks, my gracious Prince," said Reginald, a light glancing
in his fading eyes.  "I should die content to see my brother's spurs
so well earned."

"Die!  Say not so, my faithful Reginald.  Speed, Denis, and send
hither our own leech!  I trust you will live to see your son win
his spurs as gallantly!"

"No, my good Lord, I am past the power of leech or surgeon; I feel
that this is my death-wound.  I am glad it was in your cause.  All
I desire is your protection for my wife--my boy--my brother--"

"Your brother has earned it already," said Edward.  "Your child
shall be as my own.  But, oh! can nought be done?  Hasten the
surgeon hither!  Cheer thee, Reginald!--look up!  O! would that
Du Guesclin were free, the battle unfought, so that thou wert but
safe, mine own dear brother-in-arms!"

"Where is the Prince?" called a voice from behind.  "My Lord, my
Lord, if you come not speedily, there will be foul slaughter made
among the prisoners by your Spanish butcher--King I would say."

"I come, I come, Chandos," answered Edward.  "Fare thee well, my
brave Reginald; and you, my new-made Knight, send tidings to my
tent how it is with him."

He pressed Reginald's hand, and sighing deeply, mounted his horse,
and rode off with Sir John Chandos, leaving the wounded Knight to
the care of his own followers.

The stream of blood was flowing fast, life was ebbing away, and
Sir Reginald's breath was failing, as Eustace, relieving Gaston
from his weight, laid his head on his breast, and laved his brow
with water from the river.  "You have done gallantly, my brave
brother; I did wrong to doubt your spirit.  Thanks be to God that
I can die in peace, sure that Arthur has in you a true and loving
guardian.  You are young, Eustace, but my trust in you is firm.
You will train him in all Christian and godly ways--"

"It shall be the most sacred charge of my life," said Eustace,
scarcely able to speak.

"I know it," said Reginald, and making an effort to raise his
voice, he continued, "Bear witness, all of you, that I leave my
son in the wardship of the King, and of my brother, Sir Eustace
Lynwood.  And," added he, earnestly, "beware of Fulk Clarenham.
Commend me to my sweet Eleanor; tell her she is the last, as the
first in my thoughts."  Then, after a pause, "Is Gaston here?"

"Yes, Sir Reginald," said Gaston, leaning over him, and pressing
the hand which he feebly raised.

"Gaston, farewell, and thanks to you for your true and loving
service.  Eustace will find wherewith to recompense you in some
sort, in my chest at Bordeaux, and my brave Lances likewise. And,
Gaston, go not back to the courses and comrades whence I took you.
On the word of a dying man, it will be better for you when you are
in this case.  Leonard, strive to be a true and brave man, though
I may not fulfil your father's trust.  Eustace--my eyes grow dim--
is this you supporting my head--are these your tears?  Weep not
for me, brother.  Save for my poor Eleanor, I would not have it
otherwise.  Mercy is sure!  Hold up the blessed rood--the sign of
grace--you are half a clerk, repeat me some holy psalm or prayer."

Eustace raised the cross hilt of his sword, and with a broken voice,
commenced the _Miserere_.  Sir Reginald at first followed it with
his lips, but soon they ceased to move, his head sank back, his
hand fell powerless, and with one long gasping breath his faithful
and noble spirit departed.  For several moments Eustace silently
continued to hold the lifeless form in his arms, then raising the
face, he imprinted an earnest kiss on the pale lips, laid the head
reverently on the ground, hung over it for a short space, and at
last, with an effort, passed his hand over his face, and turned
away.

His first look was towards d'Aubricour, who sat resting his head
on his hand, his elbow supported on his knee, while with the other
hand he dashed away his tears.  His countenance was deathly pale,
and drops of blood were fast falling from the deep gash in his side.
"O Gaston!" exclaimed Eustace, with a feeling of self-reproach at
having forgotten him, "I fear you are badly wounded!"

"You would think little of it, had you seen more stricken fields,
young Knight," said Gaston, attempting to smile; "I am only spent
with loss of blood.  Bring me a draught of water, and I can ride
back to the tent.  But look to your prisoner, Sir Eustace."

Eustace turned to see what had become of his illustrious captive,
and saw him at a little distance, speaking to a Knight on horseback.
"Sir Eustace," said Bertrand, stepping towards him, "here is Sir
William Beauchamp, sent by the Prince to inquire for your gallant
brother, and to summon me to his tent.  I leave you the more
willingly that I think you have no mind for guests this evening.
Farewell.  I hope to be better acquainted."

Eustace had little heart to answer, but he took up Du Guesclin's
sword, as if to return it to him.  "Keep it, Sir Knight," said
Bertrand, "you know how to wield it.  I am in some sort your
godfather in chivalry, and I owe you a gift.  Let me have yours,
that my side may not be without its wonted companion.  Farewell."

"And, Sir Eustace Lynwood," said Sir William Beauchamp, riding up,
"you will advance to Navaretta, where we take up our quarters in
the French camp.  I grieve for the loss which has befallen us this
day; but I trust our chivalry has gained an equally worthy member."

Eustace bowed and, whilst Messire Bertrand mounted a horse that had
been brought for his use, turned back to his own melancholy duties.
The body of Sir Reginald was raised from the ground, and placed on
the levelled lances of four of his men, and Eustace then assisted
Gaston to rise.  He tottered, leant heavily against the young Knight,
and was obliged to submit to be lifted to the saddle; but neither
pain, grief, nor faintness could check his flow of talk.

"Well, Eustace,--Sir Eustace, I would say,--you have seen somewhat
of the chances of war."

"The mischances you mean, Gaston."

"I tell you, many a man in this host would have given his whole
kindred for such luck as has befallen you.  To cross swords with Du
Guesclin is honour enough.  This cut will be a matter of boasting
to my dying day; but, to take him prisoner--"

"Nay, that was no merit of mine.  Had not the rest come up, my wars
had soon been over, and I had been spared this grief."

"I know what most youths would have done in your place, and been
esteemed never the worse.  Dropped the pennon at that first round
blow that brought you to your knee, and called for quarter.  Poor
pennon, I deemed it gone, and would have come to your aid, but
before I could recover my feet, the fight was over, and I am glad
the glory is wholly yours.  Knighted under a banner in a stricken
field!  It is a chance which befalls not one man in five hundred,
and you in your first battle!  But he heeds me not.  He thinks only
of his brother!  Look up, Sir Eustace, 'tis but the chance of war.
Better die under sword and shield, than like a bed-ridden old woman;
better die honoured and lamented, than worn out and forgotten.
Still he has not a word!  Yea, and I could weep too for company,
for never lived better Knight, nor one whom Squire had better
cause to love!"






CHAPTER V



A battle in the days of chivalry was far less destructive than
those of modern times.  The loss in both armies at Navaretta did
not amount to six hundred; and on Pedro's side but four Knights
had fallen, of whom Sir Reginald Lynwood was the only Englishman.

On the following day all the four were buried in solemn state, at
the church of the village of Navaretta, Sir Eustace following his
brother's bier, at the head of all the men-at-arms.

On returning to his tent, Eustace found Gaston sitting on his couch,
directing Guy, and old Poitevin, who had the blue crossletted pennon
spread on the ground before him.  Eustace expressed his wonder.
"What," exclaimed Gaston, "would I see my Knight Banneret, the
youngest Knight in the army, with paltry pennon!  A banneret are
you, dubbed in the open field, entitled to take precedence of all
Knight Bachelors.  Here, Leonard, bring that pennon to me, that I
may see if it can be cut square."

"Poor Eleanor's pennon!" said Eustace, sadly.

"Nay, what greater honour can it have than in becoming a banner?  I
only grieve that this bloodstain, the noblest mark a banner can bear,
is upon the swallow-tail.  But what do I see?  You, a belted Knight,
in your plain Esquire's helmet, and the blood-stained surcoat!  Ay,
and not even the gilded spurs!" he exclaimed indignantly.  "Would
that I had seen you depart!  But it was Leonard's fault.  Why, man,
knew you not your duty?"

"I am no Squire of Eustace Lynwood," said Ashton.

"Every Squire is bound to serve the Knight in whose company he finds
himself," said d'Aubricour.  "Know you not thus much of the laws of
chivalry?  Come, bestir yourself, that he may be better provided in
future.  You must present yourself to the Prince to-morrow, Sir
Eustace."

"One of his Squires bade me to his presence," said the young Knight,
"but I must now write these heavy tidings to my poor sister, and I
am going to Father Waleran's tent to seek parchment and ink."

"And how send you the letter?"

"By the bearer of the Prince's letters to the King.  Sir Richard
Ferrars knows him, and will give them into his charge.  So farewell,
Gaston, keep quiet, and weary not yourself with my equipment."

With these words he left the tent, and Gaston, shaking his head,
and throwing himself back on his deer-skins, exclaimed, "Tender
and true, brave and loving!  I know not what to make of Eustace
Lynwood.  His spirit is high as a Paladin's of old, of that I never
doubted, yet is his hand as deft at writing as a clerk's, and his
heart as soft as a woman's.  How he sighed and wept the livelong
night, when he thought none could hear him!  Well, Sir Reginald
was a noble Knight, and is worthily mourned, but where is the
youth who would not have been more uplifted at his own honours,
than downcast at his loss; and what new-made Knight ever neglected
his accoutrements to write sad tidings to his sister-in-law?  But,"
he continued, rising again, "Guy, bring me here the gilded spurs
you will find yonder.  The best were, I know, buried with Sir
Reginald, and methought there was something amiss with one rowel
of the other.  So it is.  Speed to Maitre Ferry, the armourer,
and bid him come promptly."

"And lie you still on your couch meanwhile, Master d'Aubricour,"
said Guy, "or there will soon be another Squire missing among
the Lances of Lynwood."

"I marvel at you, d'Aubricour," said Leonard, looking up from a
pasty, which he was devouring with double relish, to make up for
past privations, "I marvel that you should thus weary yourself,
with your fresh wound, and all for nought."

"Call you our brave young banneret nought?  Shame on thee!  All
England should be proud of him, much more his friend and companion."

"I wish Eustace Lynwood well with all my heart," said Leonard, "but
I see not why he is to be honoured above all others.  Yourself,
Gaston, so much older, so perfect in all exercises, you who fought
with this Frenchman too, of whom they make so much, the Prince
might as well have knighted you, as Eustace, who would have been
down in another moment had not I made in to the rescue.  Methinks
if I had been the Prince, I would have inquired upon whom knighthood
would sit the best."

"And the choice would have been the same," said Gaston.  "Not only
was Sir Eustace the captor of Messire Bertrand, whereas my luck
was quite otherwise; but what would knighthood have availed the
wandering landless foreigner, as you courteously term me, save to
fit me for the leadership of a band of _routiers_, and unfit me
for the office of an Esquire, which I do, as you say, understand
indifferently well."

"Is it not the same with him?" cried Leonard.  "He does not own a
palm's breadth of land, and for gold, all he will ever possess is
on those broken spurs of his brother's."

"Listen to me, Leonard," said Gaston.  "Rich or poor, Sir Eustace
is the only fit leader of the Lances till the little boy is of age,
but this he could not be without knightly rank.  Even in this
campaign, when I might have taken the command, I being disabled
for the present, it must have devolved on him, who might not have
been so readily obeyed."

"No, indeed," said Leonard.  "Strange that the touch of the Prince's
sword should make so great a difference between him and me."

"If it was the touch of the Prince's sword that did so," said Gaston.

"What else?" sharply retorted Leonard.  "Not height nor strength!
His hand and arm might belong to a girl, I could crush it in my
grasp."  So saying, he extended a huge, hard, red palm.

"Ay?" said Gaston; "I should like to see whether that great paw
would have won Du Guesclin's sword."

"I tell you flatly," proceeded Ashton, "I might follow Sir Reginald,
since he was a man of substance, honoured in our country, and my
father meant to oblige and do him grace by placing me with him."

"Grace!" repeated Gaston.

"But," continued Ashton, angrily, "as to serving Eustace, the clerk,
no older than myself, half a head shorter, and a mere landless
upstart, that my father's son shall never do!"

"Say you so?" said Gaston.  "I recommend you not to do so quite so
loud, or perchance the landless upstart might hand your father's
son over to the Provost Marshal, for preaching disaffection to his
men.  And, in good time, here comes the Master Armourer."

The rest of the day was spent by Gaston in the arrangement of
the equipments, so important in his estimation, and scarcely
another word was spoken save on the choice of helm and shield,
and the adaptation of crests and blazonry.  The next point for
consideration was the disposal of the prisoners taken by the
Lances of Lynwood in the early part of the battle.  Two were
Squires, the other four, rough-looking men-at-arms who protested
that they could not pay one denier towards their ransom.  Eustace
liberated them, and was greatly inclined to do the same by the
Squires; but Gaston assured him it would be doing wrong to the
Prince's cause to set the rogues free without taking some good
French crowns from them, and therefore, permitting him to name
what ransom he thought fit, he returned to them their horses,
and dismissed them to collect the sum.

Early the next morning, Gaston had the satisfaction of beholding
his young banneret arrayed in knightly guise, the golden spurs on
his heels, Du Guesclin's sword by his side, and his white mantle
flung over his shoulder.  Leonard was summoned to accompany him,
but he growled out something so like an absolute refusal and utter
disclaimer of all duty to Sir Eustace, that Gaston began to reproach
him vehemently.

"Never mind, Gaston," said Eustace, "you never mend matters with
him in that way, I shall do very well alone."

"So you shall never go," said Gaston, rising; "I will go myself,
I have been longing to see you received by the Prince.  Where is
my sword?"

"Nay, Gaston," said Eustace, "that must not be.  See how the hot
sunbeams lie across that hill between us and the Prince's tent.
You must not waste your strength if it is true that we are to
journey to Burgos to-day."

"It shows how new your chivalry is, that you make so much of a
mere scratch," said Gaston, hastily commencing his preparations;
"Guy, go you and saddle Brigliador."

"No, do not touch Brigliador," said Eustace.  "You deny it in vain,
Gaston; your face betrays that you do not move without pain.  I
learnt some leech-craft among my clerkly accomplishments, and you
had better take care that you do not have the benefit.  Leonard,
since it is the only way to quiet him, I order you to mount."

Leonard hung his head, and obeyed.  They rode towards the village
of Najara, where Eustace found the Prince entering the church, to
hear morning mass.  Giving his horse to John Ingram, he followed
among the other Knights who thronged the little building.

The service at an end, he received more than one kind greeting
from his brother's friends, and one of them, Sir Richard Ferrars,
a fine old man, whose iron-gray locks contrasted with his ruddy
complexion, led him forward to present him to the Prince of Wales.

"Welcome! our new-made Knight," said Edward.  "Brave comrades, I
present to you the youngest brother of our order, trusting you
will not envy him for having borne off the fairest rose of our
chaplet of Navaretta."

Bertrand du Guesclin, who stood among the throng of nobles around
the Prince, was the first to come forward and shake Eustace by the
hand, saying with a laugh, "Nay, my Lord, this is the first time the
ugliest Knight in France has been called by such a name.  However,
young Sir, may you win and wear many another."

"That scarcely may be a sincere wish, Messire Bertrand," said the
Duke of Lancaster, "unless you mean roses of love instead of roses
of war.  And truly, with his face, and the fame he owes to you,
methinks he will not find our damsels at Bordeaux very hard of
heart.  See, he blushes, as if we had guessed his very thought."

"Truly, my Lord John," said old Sir John Chandos sternly, "a man
may well blush to hear a son of King Edward talk as if such
trifling were the reward of knighthood.  His face and his fame
forsooth! as if he were not already in sufficient danger of being
cockered up, like some other striplings on whom it has pleased
his Highness to confer knighthood for as mere a chance as this."

"You have coloured his cheek in good earnest," said the Captal de
Buch.  "Consider, Chandos, this is no time to damp his spirit."

"It were a spirit scarce worth fostering, if it is to be damped by
a little breath of the lips one way or the other," said Sir John,
moving off, and adding, when out of Eustace's hearing, "A likely
lad enough had he been under his brother's training, but they will
spoil him, and I will have no hand in it."

Eustace had been accustomed to hold the warrior in such veneration,
that he felt considerably hurt and mortified at the want of welcome
which contrasted with the kindness of the rest; and he could hardly
recover his self-possession sufficiently to inquire the pleasure of
the Prince with regard to his brother's troop.

"Take command yourself," said Edward.  "You surely have some Esquire
or man-at-arms who can supply your own want of experience."

"My brother's Squire, Gaston d'Aubricour, is well learned in chivalry,
my Lord," said Eustace, "and I will do my best, with his aid, to
fulfil my trust."

"It is well," said Edward.  "The Lances of Lynwood are too well
trained easily to forget their duty, and I fear not but that you
will do well.  How old is your brother's young heir?"

"Eight years, my Lord."

"We will soon have him at Bordeaux," said Edward, "that he may grow
up with my boys in the same friendship as their fathers.  And now,"
added he, turning from Eustace to the assembled nobles around him,
"let us part, and prepare for our further journey.  In an hour's
time the bugles shall summon you to depart for Burgos."

The Prince walked away towards his tent with the Captal de Buch,
and Eustace looked round for his horse, which he saw at no great
distance with Ingram, but Leonard Ashton was nowhere in sight.
Eustace mounted, and rode towards his own tent, desiring the
yeoman to seek Ashton out, while he himself proceeded slowly,
musing, with feelings of considerable disappointment and vexation,
on the reception he had met from Sir John Chandos, the man in the
whole camp whose good opinion he would have most valued.  "This
is folly," thought he, however, rousing himself after a minute or
two of such meditations.  "What said the good old Baron but what
I know full well myself, that I am far from meriting my new honours?
On whom does it depend, but myself to win his praise?  And by our
Lady's grace, I will make him confess at last, that, young as I
am, I can show that I deserve my spurs.  What, ho! Ingram, where
is Master Ashton?"

"Where you will little like to hear of him, Sir Knight," said the
yeoman, galloping up on his tall Flemish horse.  "At the wine-shop,
yonder, in the village, with that ill-favoured, one-eyed Squire
that you wot of.  I called him as you desired, and all that I got
for an answer was, that he would come at his own time, and not at
your bidding."

"Said he so? the ungracious, headstrong fellow!" said Eustace,
looking back wistfully.  "And what to do!  To ride back myself
might be the means of getting the whole troop late in starting,
and disorderly--yet, to leave him!"  Eustace looked at John
Ingram's comely and stolid face, and then almost smiled at
himself for seeking counsel from him.  "Ride you on, John," said
he; "tell Master d'Aubricour of the order to depart--let all be
in readiness by the time I return."

Then turning his horse quickly, Eustace rode back to the village.
All was haste and confusion there--horses were being led forth
and saddled, pages, grooms, and men-at-arms hurrying to and fro
--bugles sounding--everything in the bustle incident to immediate
departure.  He could only make his way through the press slowly,
and with difficulty, which ill suited with his impatience and
perplexity.  In front of the venta, a low white cottage, with a
wooden balcony overspread with vines, there was a still closer
press, and loud vehement voices, as of disputants, were heard,
while the various men-at-arms crowded in so closely to see the
fray, if such it were, as to be almost regardless of the horse,
which Eustace was pressing forward upon them.  He looked over
their heads to see Leonard, but in vain.  He thought of retreat,
but found himself completely entangled in the throng.  At that
moment, a cry was heard, "The Provost Marshal!"  The crowd
suddenly, he knew not how, seemed to melt away from around him,
in different directions, and he found himself left, on horseback,
in the midst of the little village green, amongst scattered groups
of disreputable-looking yeomen, archers, and grooms, who were
making what speed they could to depart, as from the other side
the Provost, the archers of the guard, and Sir John Chandos
entered upon the scene.

"Ha!  What is all this?  Whom have we here?" exclaimed the old
Baron.  "Sir Eustace Lynwood!  By my life, a fair commencement
for your dainty young knighthood!"

"On my word, my Lord Chandos," said Eustace, colouring deeply, "I
am no loiterer here; I came but to seek my Squire, Leonard Ashton,
and found myself entangled in the crowd."

"Ay, ay!  I understand," said Chandos, without listening to him;
"I see how it will be.  Off to your troop instantly, Master Knight.
I suppose they are all seeking Squires in the wine-shops!"

"You do me wrong, my Lord," said Eustace; "but you shall be obeyed."

The bugles had already sounded before he reached his own quarters,
where he found that, thanks to Gaston, all was right.  The tent
had been taken down and packed on the baggage mules, the men were
mounted, and drawn up in full array, with his banner floating above
their heads; and Gaston himself was only waiting his appearance to
mount a stout mule, which Martin, the horse-boy, was leading up and
down.

"This is well.  Thanks, good Gaston," said Eustace, with a sigh
of relief, as he took off his heavy helmet, which had become much
heated during his hasty ride in the hot sun.

"No news of the truant?" asked Gaston.  "Who but you would have
thought of going after him?  Well did I know you would never
prosper without me at your elbow."

Eustace smiled, but he was too much heated and vexed to give a
very cheerful assent.  He had only time to load Ferragus with his
armour, and mount a small pony, before the signal for the march
was given, and all set forth.  Early in the year as it was, the sun
already possessed great force, and the dry rocky soil of Castile
reflected his beams, so that, long before noon, it seemed to
Eustace almost as if their march lay through an oven.  Nor were
his perplexities by any means at an end; the thirst, occasioned
by the heat, was excessive, and at every venta, in the villages
through which they passed, the men called loudly for liquor; but
the hot, fiery Spanish wine was, as Eustace had already been
cautioned by Father Waleran, only fit to increase the evil, by
inflaming their blood.  It was the Holy Week, which was to him
a sufficient reason for refraining entirely, contenting himself
with a drink of water, when it could be procured, which, however,
was but rarely.  He would willingly have persuaded his men to do
the same, but remonstrance was almost without effect, and his dry
lips refused to utter a prohibition, which would have been esteemed
at once cruel and unreasonable.  In his persuasions to Gaston he
was, however, more in earnest, representing to him that he was
increasing the fever of his wound; but the Squire was perfectly
impracticable.  At first, he answered in his usual gay, careless
manner, that the scratch was nothing, and that, be what it might,
he had as soon die of a wound as of thirst; but as the day wore on,
it seemed as if the whole nature of the man were becoming changed.
Sometimes he was boisterously loud in his merriment, sometimes
sullen and silent; and when Eustace, unwearied, reiterated his
arguments, he replied to him, not only with complete want of the
deference he was usually so scrupulous in paying to his dignity,
but with rude and scurril taunts and jests on his youth, his
clerkly education, and his inexperience.  Eustace's patience would
scarcely have held out, but that he perceived that d'Aubricour
was by no means master of himself, and he saw in his flushed
brow, and blood-shot eye, reason to fear for the future effect of
the present excess.  There was suppressed laughter among the men
at some of his sallies.  Without being positively in disorder, the
troop did not display the well-arrayed aspect which had always
hitherto distinguished the Lances of Lynwood; and poor Eustace,
wearied and worn out, his right-hand man failing him, dispirited
by Chandos's reproach, and feeling all the cares of the world on
his shoulders, had serious thoughts of going to the Prince, and
resigning the command for which he was unfit.

At last he beheld the Cathedral of Burgos rising in the midst of
the Moorish fortifications of the town, and, halting his men under
the shade of a few trees, he rode on in search of the marshals of
the camp, and as soon as the open space for his tents had been
assigned, he returned to see them raised.  Gaston, who had of late
become more silent, was lifted from his mule, and assisted into the
tent, where he was laid on his couch, and soon after, Eustace was
relieved from his anxiety on Leonard Ashton's account, by his
appearance.  He came stumbling in without one word of apology,
only declaring himself as weary as a dog, and, throwing himself
down on a deer-skin on his own side of the tent, was fast asleep
in another minute.






CHAPTER VI



Leonard Ashton was awakened the next morning by the light of the
rising sun streaming in where the curtain of the tent had been
raised to admit the fresh dewy morning air.  The sunbeams fell
on the hair and face of Eustace as he leant over Gaston, who lay
stretched on the couch, and faintly spoke: "I tell you it is more.
Such fever as this would not be caused by this trifling cut.  There
is sickness abroad in the camp, and why should it not be my turn
as well as another man's.  Take care of yourself, Sir Eustace."

No sooner did Leonard understand the sense of these words, than
he sprang up, rushed out of the tent, and never rested till he
thought himself at a safe distance, when he shouted to Eustace
to come to him.

"Has he got this fever on him?" exclaimed he, as Eustace approached.

"He is very ill at ease," replied Eustace, "but to my mind it is
caused by yesterday's fatigue and heat, added to the wine which
he would drink."

"It is the fever, I say," replied Ashton; "I am sure it is.  Come
away, Eustace, or we shall all be infected."

"I cannot leave him," said Eustace.

"What?  You do not mean to peril yourself by going near him?"
said Ashton.

"I think not that there is peril in so doing, answered Eustace; "and
even if there were, I could not leave him in sickness, after all his
kindness to me and patience with my inexperience."

"He is no brother nor cousin to us," said Leonard.  "I see not why
we should endanger our lives for a stranger.  I will not, for my own
part; and, as your old friend and comrade, I would entreat you not."

These were kinder words than Eustace had heard from Ashton since
the beginning of his jealousy, and he answered, as he thought they
were meant, in a friendly tone, "Thanks, Leonard, but I cannot
look on Gaston d'Aubricour as a stranger; and had I fewer causes
for attachment to him, I could not leave my post."

"Only you do not expect me to do the same," said Leonard; "my father
sent me here to gain honour and wealth, not to be poisoned with the
breath of a man in a fever."

"Assuredly not," said Eustace.  "I will arrange matters so that you
shall no longer sleep in our tent.  But let me ask of you, Leonard,
what was the meaning of your conduct of yesterday?"

"You may ask yourself," said Leonard, sullenly; "it is plain enough,
methinks."

"Have a care, Leonard.  Remember that my brother's authority is given
to me."

"Much good may it do you," said Leonard; "but that is nothing to me.
I am no vassal of yours, to come at your call.  I have my own friends,
and am not going to stay in this infected part of the camp with men
who keep a fever among them.  Give me but my sword and mantle from
the tent, and I will trouble you no more."

"Wait, Leonard, I will take all measures for your safety; but
remember that I am answerable to the Prince for my brother's
followers."

"Answer for your own serfs," retorted Leonard, who had nearly
succeeded in working himself into a passion.  "My father might
be willing to grace Sir Reginald by letting me follow him, but
by his death I am my own man, and not to move at your beck and
call, because the Prince laid his sword on your shoulder.  Knave
Jasper," he called to one of the men-at-arms, "bring my sword
and cloak from the tent; I enter it no more."

"I know not how far you may be bound to me," said Eustace, "and
must inquire from some elder Knight, but I fear that your breaking
from me may be attended with evil effects to your name and fame."

Leonard had put on his dogged expression, and would not listen. He
had already set his mind on joining _le Borgne Basque_, and leaving
the service which his own envious service rendered galling; and the
panic excited in his mind by Gaston's illness determined him to depart
without loss of time, or listening to the representations which he
could not answer.  He turned his back on Eustace, and busied himself
with the fastenings of his sword, which had by this time been brought
to him.  Even yet Eustace was not rebuffed.  "One more hint, Leonard.
From what I am told, there is more peril to thy health in revelry than
in the neighbourhood of poor Gaston.  If you will quit one who wishes
you well, take heed to your ways."

Still the discourteous Squire made no reply, and walked off in all
the dignity of ill-humour.  The young Knight, who really had a warm
feeling of affection for him, stood looking after him with a sigh,
and then returned to his patient, whom he found in an uneasy sleep.
After a few moments' consideration, he summoned old Guy to take the
part of nurse, and walked to the tent of Sir Richard Ferrars, to ask
his counsel.

The old Knight, who was standing at the door of his tent, examining
into some hurt which his steed had received the day before, kindly
and cordially greeted Eustace on his approach.  "I am glad you are
not above taking advice," he said, "as many a youth might be after
such fresh honours."

"I feel but too glad to find some one who will bestow advice on me,"
said Eustace; and he proceeded to explain his difficulties with
regard to Leonard Ashton.

"Let him go! and a good riddance," said Sir Richard; "half your cares
go with him."

"Yet I am unwilling not to attempt to hinder my old comrade from
running to ruin."

"You have quite enough on your own hands already," said the old
Knight; "he would do far more harm in your troop than out of it,
and try your patience every hour."

"He is my old playfellow," said Eustace, still dissatisfied.

"More shame for him," said Sir Richard; "waste not another thought on
so cross-grained a slip, who, as I have already feared, might prove a
stumbling-block to you, so young in command as you are.  Let him get
sick of his chosen associates, and no better hap can befall him.  And
for yourself, what shall you do with this sick Squire?"

"What can I do, save to give the best attendance I may?"

"Nay, I am not the man to gainsay it.  'Tis no more than you ought.
And yet--"  He surveyed the young Knight's slender form and slightly
moulded limbs, his cheeks pale with watching and the oppressive heat
of the night, and the heavy appearance of the eyelids that shaded
his dark blue thoughtful eyes.  "Is your health good, young man?"

"As good as that of other men," said Eustace.

"Men!" said Sir Richard; "boys, you mean!  But be a man, since you
will, only take as good care of yourself as consists with duty.  I
had rather have you safe than a dozen of these black-visaged Gascons."

Eustace further waited to mention to Sir Richard his untoward encounter
with Sir John Chandos, and to beg him to explain it to the old Baron.

"I will," said Sir Richard; "and don't take old Chandos's uncourtliness
too much to heart, young Eustace.  He means you no ill.  Do your duty,
and he will own it in time."

Eustace thanked the old Knight, and with spirits somewhat cheered,
returned to his tent, there to devote himself to the service of
his sick Squire.  The report that the fever was in his tent made
most persons willing to avoid him, and he met little interruption
in his cares.  Of Leonard, all that he heard was from a man-at-
arms, who made his appearance in his tent to demand Master Ashton's
arms, horse, and other property, he having entered the service of
Sir William Felton; and Eustace was too much engaged with his own
cares to make further inquiry after him.

For a day or two Gaston d'Aubricour's fever ran very high, and just
when its violence was beginning to diminish, a fresh access was
occasioned by the journey from Burgos to Valladolid, whither he was
carried in a litter, when the army, by Pedro's desire, marched thither
to await his promised subsidy.  The unwholesome climate was of most
pernicious effect to the whole of the English army, and in especial
to the Black Prince, who there laid the foundation of the disorder
which destroyed his health.  Week after week passed on, each adding
heat to the summer, and increasing the long roll of sick and dying in
the camp, while Gaston still lay, languid and feeble by day, and
fevered by night; there were other patients among the men-at-arms,
requiring scarcely less care; and the young Knight himself, though,
owing to his temperate habits, he had escaped the prevailing sickness,
was looking thin and careworn with the numerous troubles and anxieties
that were pressing on him.

Still he had actually lost not one of his men, and after the first
week or two, began to have more confidence in himself, and to feel
his place as their commander more than he would have done had Gaston
been able to assist him.  At last his trusty Squire began slowly to
recover, though nightly returns of fever still kept him very weak.

"The Pyrenean breezes would make me another man," said he, one evening,
when Eustace had helped him to the front of the tent, where he might
enjoy the coolness which began to succeed the sultry heat of the day.

"I hear," said Eustace, "that we are to return as soon as the Prince
can be moved.  He is weary of waiting till this dog of a Spaniard
will perform his contract."

"By my faith," said d'Aubricour, "I believe the butcherly rogue means
to cancel his debts by the death of all his creditors.  I would give
my share of the pay, were it twenty times more, for one gust of the
mountain air of my own hills."

"Which way lies your home, Gaston?" asked Eustace.  "Near the pass by
which we crossed?"

"No; more to the west.  My home, call you it?  You would marvel to
see what it is now.  A shattered, fire-scathed keep; the wolf's den in
earnest, it may be.  It is all that is left of the Castle d'Albricorte."

How?" exclaimed Eustace.  "What brought this desolation?"

"Heard you never my story?" said Gaston.  "Mayhap not.  You are
fresh in the camp, and it is no recent news, nor do men question
much whence their comrades come.  Well, Albricorte was always a
noted house for courage, and my father, Baron Beranger, not a whit
behind his ancestors.  He called himself a liegeman of England,
because England was farthest off, and least likely to give him any
trouble, and made war with all his neighbours in his own fashion.
Rare was the prey that the old Black Wolf of the Pyrenees was wont
to bring up to his lair, and right merry were the feastings there.
Well I do remember how my father and brothers used to sound their
horns as a token that they did not come empty-handed, and then,
panting up the steep path, would come a rich merchant, whose ransom
filled our purses half a year after, or a Knight, whose glittering
armour made him a double prize, or--"

"What! you were actually--"

"Freebooters, after the fashion of our own Quatre fils Aymon,"
answered Gaston, composedly.  "Yes, Beranger d'Albricorte was the
terror of all around, and little was the chance that aught would
pursue him to his den.  So there I grew up, as well beseemed the
cub of such a wolf, racing through the old halls at my will."

"Your mother?" asked Eustace.

"Ah! poor lady!  I remember her not.  She died when I was a babe,
and all I know of her was from an old hag, the only woman in the
Castle, to whom the charge of me was left.  My mother was a noble
Navarrese damsel whom my father saw at a tourney, seized, and bore
away as she was returning from the festival.  Poor lady! our grim
Castle must have been a sad exchange from her green valleys--and
the more, that they say she was soon to have wedded the Lord of
Montagudo, the victor of that tourney.  The Montagudos had us in
bitter feud ever after, and my father always looked like a
thunderstorm if their name was spoken.  They say she used to
wander on the old battlements like a ghost, ever growing thinner
and whiter, and scarce seemed to joy even in her babes, but would
only weep over them.  That angered the Black Wolf, and there were
chidings which made matters little better, till at last the poor
lady pined away, and died while I was still an infant."

"A sad tale," said Eustace.

"Ay! I used to weep at it, when the old crone who nursed me would
tell it over as I sat by her side in the evening.  See, here is
holy relic that my mother wore round her neck, and my nurse hung
round mine.  It has never been parted from me.  So I grew up to the
years of pagehood, which came early with me, and forth I went on my
first foray with the rest of them.  But as we rode joyously home
with our prey before us, a band of full a hundred and fifty men-at-
arms set on us in the forest.  Our brave thirty--down they went on
all side.  I remember the tumult, the heavy mace uplifted, and my
father's shield thrust over me.  I can well-nigh hear his voice
saying, 'Flinch not, Gaston, my brave wolf-cub!'  But then came a
fall, man and horse together, and I went down stunned, and knew no
more till a voice over me said, 'That whelp is stirring--another
sword-thrust!'  But another replied, 'He bears the features of
Alienor, I cannot slay him'"

"It was your mother's lover?"

"Montagudo?  Even so; and I was about to beg for mercy, but, at my
first movement, the other fellow's sword struck me back senseless
once more, and when I recovered my wits, all was still, and the
moonlight showed me where I was.  And a fair scene to waken to!
A score of dark shapes hung on the trees--our trusty men-at-arms
--and my own head was resting on my dead father's breast.  Us they
had spared from hanging--our gentle blood did us that service; but
my father and my three brethren all were stone dead.  The Count de
Bearn had sworn to put an end to the ravages of the Black Wolf,
and, joining with the Montagudos, had done the work, like traitor
villains as they were."

"And yourself, Gaston?"

"I was not so badly wounded but that I could soon rise to my feet
--but where should I go?  I turned towards the Castle, but the
Bearnese had been there before me, and I saw flames bursting
from every window.  I was weak and wounded, and sank down,
bleeding and bewailing, till my senses left me; and I should have
died, but for two Benedictines journeying for the service of their
Convent.  The good brethren were in fear for their bags in going
through the Black Wolf's country, but they had pity on me; they
brought me to myself, and when they had heard my tale, they
turned aside to give Christian burial to my father and brothers.
They were holy men, those monks, and, for their sakes, I have
spared the cowl ever since.  They tended me nearly as well as
you have done, and brought me to their Convent, where they would
fain have made a monk of me, but the wolf was too strong in me,
and, ere a month was passed, I had been so refractory a pupil,
that they were right glad to open the Convent gates.  I walked
forth to seek my fortune, without a denier, with nothing but the
sword I had taken from my father's hand, and borne with me, much
against the good men's will.  I meant to seek service with any
one who would avenge me on the Count de Bearn.  One night I slept
on the hill-side, one day I fasted, the next I fell in with Sir
Perduccas d'Albret's troop.  I had seen him in my father's company.
He heard my tale, saw me a strong, spirited lad, and knew a
d'Aubricour would be no discredit to his free lances.  So he took
me as his page, and thence--but the tale would be long--I became
what you see me."

"And you have never seen your own Castle again?"

"But once.  D'Albret laughed when I called on him to revenge me
on the Count de Bearn, and bade me bide my time till I met him in
battle.  As to my heritage, there was no hope for that.  Once, when
I had just broken with Sir Nele Loring, and left his troop, and
times were hard with me, I took my horse and rode to Albricorte,
but there was nought but the bare mountain, and the walls black
with fire.  There was, indeed, a wretched shepherd and his wife,
who trembled and looked dismayed when they found that one of the
Albricortes still lived; but I could get nothing from them, unless
I had taken a sheep before me on the saddle; so I rode off again
to seek some fresh service, and, by good hap, lit on Sir Reginald
just as old Harwood was dead.  All I have from my father is my
name, my shield, and an arm that I trust has disgraced neither."

"No, indeed.  Yours is a strange history, Gaston; such as we dream
not of in our peaceful land.  Homeless, friendless, I know not how
you can be thus gay spirited?"

"A light heart finds its way through the world the easiest," said
Gaston, smiling.  "I have nothing to lose, and no sorrows to waste
time on.  But are you not going forth this cool evening, Sir
Eustace? you spoke of seeking fresh tidings of the Prince."

Eustace accordingly walked forth, attended by his yeoman, John Ingram;
but all he could learn was, that Edward had sent a remonstrance to the
King of Castile on the delay of the subsidy.






CHAPTER VII



As Eustace was returning, his attention was caught by repeated groans,
which proceeded from a wretched little hovel almost level with the
earth.  "Hark!" said he to Ingram, a tall stout man-at-arms from the
Lynwood estate.  "Didst thou not hear a groaning?"

"Some of the Castilians, Sir.  To think that the brutes should be
content to live in holes not fit for swine!"

"But methought it was an English tongue.  Listen, John!"

And in truth English ejaculations mingled with the moans: "To St.
Joseph of Glastonbury, a shrine of silver!  Blessed Lady of Taunton,
a silver candlestick!  Oh! St. Dunstan!"

Eustace doubted no longer; and stooping down and entering the hut,
he beheld, as well as the darkness would allow him, Leonard Ashton
himself, stretched on some mouldy rushes, and so much altered, that
he could scarcely have been recognized as the sturdy, ruddy youth
who had quitted the Lances of Lynwood but five weeks before.

"Eustace! Eustace!" he exclaimed, as the face of his late companion
appeared.  "Can it be you?  Have the saints sent you to my succour?"

"It is I, myself, Leonard," replied Eustace; "and I hope to aid you.
How is it--"

"Let me feel your hand, that I may be sure you are flesh and blood,"
cried Ashton, raising himself and grasping Eustace's hand between his
own, which burnt like fire; then, lowering his voice to a whisper of
horror, "She is a witch!"

"Who?" asked Eustace, making the sign of the cross.

Leonard pointed to a kind of partition which crossed the hut, beyond
which Eustace could perceive an old hag-like woman, bending over a
cauldron which was placed on the fire.  Having made this effort, he
sank back, hiding his face with his cloak, and trembling in every
limb.  A thrill of dismay passed over the Knight, and the giant,
John Ingram, stood shaking like an aspen, pale as death, and crossing
himself perpetually.  "Oh, take me from this place, Eustace,"
repeated Leonard, "or I am a dead man, both body and soul!"

"But how came you here, Leonard?"

"I fell sick some three days since, and--and, fearing infection, Sir
William Felton bade me be carried from his lodgings; the robbers,
his men-at-arms, stripped me of all I possessed, and brought me to
this dog-hole, to the care of this old hag.  Oh, Eustace, I have
heard her mutter prayers backwards; and last night--oh! last night!
at the dead hour, there came in a procession--of that I would take
my oath--seven black cats, each holding a torch with a blue flame,
and danced around me, till one laid his paw upon my breast, and
grew and grew, with its flaming eyes fixed on me, till it was as
big as an ox, and the weight was intolerable, the while her spells
were over me, and I could not open my lips to say so much as an Ave
Mary.  At last, the cold dew broke out on my brow, and I should have
been dead in another instant, when I contrived to make the sign of
the Cross, whereat they all whirled wildly round, and I fell--oh!
I fell miles and miles downwards, till at last I found myself, at
morning's light, with the hateful old witch casting water in my
face.  Oh, Eustace, take me away!"

Such were the times, that Eustace Lynwood, with all his cool sense
and mental cultivation, believed implicitly poor Leonard's delirious
fancy--black cats and all; and the glances he cast at the poor old
Spaniard were scarcely less full of terror and abhorrence, as he
promised Leonard, whom he now regarded only in the light of his old
comrade, that he should, without loss of time, be conveyed to his
own tent.

"But go not--leave me not," implored Leonard, clinging fast to him,
almost like a child to its nurse, with a hand which was now cold
as marble.

"No; I will remain," said Eustace; "and you, Ingram, hasten to bring
four of the men with the litter in which Master d'Aubricour came from
Burgos.  Hasten I tell you."

"Ingram, with his eyes dilated with horror, appeared but too anxious
to quit this den, yet lingered.  "I leave you not here, Sir Knight."

"Thanks, thanks, John," replied the youth; "but remain I must, and
will.  As a Christian man, I defy the foul fiend and all his
followers!"

John departed.  Never was Leonard so inclined to rejoice in his
friend's clerkly education, or in his knighthood, which was then
so much regarded as a holy thing, that the presence of one whose
entrance into the order was so recent was deemed a protection.
The old woman, a kind-hearted creature in the main, though,
certainly forbidding-looking in her poverty and ugliness, was
rejoiced to see her patient visited by a friend.  She came towards
them, addressing Eustace with what he took for a spell, though,
had he understood Spanish he would have found it a fine flowing
compliment.  Leonard shrank closer to him, pressed his hand
faster, and he, again crossing himself, gave utterance to a charm.
Spanish, especially old Castilian, had likeness enough to Latin
for the poor old woman to recognize its purport; she poured out
a voluble vindication, which the two young men believed to be an
attempt at further bewitching them.  Eustace, finding his Latin
rather the worse for wear, had recourse to all the strange rhymes,
or exorcisms, English, French, or Latin, with which his memory
supplied him.  Thanks to these, the sorceress was kept at bay,
and the spirits of his terrified companion were sustained till
the arrival of all the Lances of Lynwood, headed by Gaston
himself, upon his mule, in the utmost anxiety for his Knight,
looking as gaunt and spectral as the phantoms they dreaded.  He
blessed the saints when Eustace came forth safe and sound, and
smiled and shook his head with an arch look when Leonard was
carried out; but his never-failing good-nature prevented him
from saying a word which might savour of reproach when he saw
to what a condition the poor youth was reduced.  As four stout
men-at-arms took up the litter, the old woman, coming forth to
her threshold, uttered something which his knowledge of the
Romanesque tongues of Southern France enabled him to interpret
into a vindication of her character, and a request for a reward
for her care of the sick Englishman.

"Throw her a gold piece, Sir Eustace, or she may cast at you an
evil eye.  There, you old hag," he added in the Provencal patois,
"take that, and thank your stars that 'tis not with a fire that
your tender care, as you call it, is requited."

The men-at-arms meditated ducking the witch after their own English
fashion, but it was growing late and dark, and the Knight gave strict
orders that they should keep together in their progress to their own
tents.  Here Leonard was deposited on the couch which Gaston insisted
on giving up to him; but his change of residence appeared to be of
little advantage, for the camp was scarce quiet for the night, before
he shrieked out that the black cats were there.  Neither Eustace nor
Gaston could see them, but that was only a proof that they were not
under the power of the enchantment, and John Ingram was quite sure
that he had not only seen the sparkle of their fiery eyes, but felt
the scratch of their talons, which struck him to the ground, with his
foot caught in the rope of the tent, while he was walking about with
his eyes shut.

The scratch was actually on his face the next morning, and he set out
at the head of half the Lances of Lynwood to find the poor old woman,
and visit her with condign punishment; but she was not forthcoming,
and they were obliged to content themselves with burning her house,
assisted by a host of idlers.  In the meantime, Sir Eustace had called
in the aid of the clergy: the chaplains of the camp came in procession,
sprinkled the patient's bed with holy water, and uttered an exorcism,
but without availing to prevent a third visit from the enemy.  After
this, however, Leonard's fever began to abate, and he ceased to be
haunted.

He had been very ill; and, thoroughly alarmed, he thought himself
dying, and bitterly did he repent of the headstrong insubordination
and jealously which had lead him to quit his best and only friend.
He had not, indeed, the refinement of feeling which would have made
Eustace's generosity his greatest reproach; he clung to him as his
support, and received his attentions almost as a right; but still he
was sensible that he had acted like a fool, and that such friendship
was not to be thrown away; and when he began to recover he showed
himself subdued, to a certain degree grateful, and decidedly less
sullen and more amenable to authority.

In the meantime, the Prince of Wales found himself sufficiently
recovered to undertake to return to Aquitaine, and, weary of the
treacherous delays and flagrant crimes of his ally, he resolved
to quit this fatal land of Castile.

There was a general cry of joy throughout the camp when orders were
given that the tents should be struck and the army begin its march
in the early coolness of the next morning; and, without further
adventure, the Black Prince led his weakened and reduced forces
over the Pyrenees back into France.  Here they were again dispersed,
as the war was at an end; and the young Sir Eustace Lynwood received
high commendation from the Prince, and even from Chandos himself,
for being able to show his brother's band as complete in numbers
and discipline as on the day when it was given into his charge.

"This," as Chandos said, "was a service which really showed him
worthy of his spurs, if he would but continue the good course."

The peace with France, however, prevented the Prince from being
desirous of keeping up the Lances of Lynwood, and he therefore
offered to take their young leader into his own troop of Knights,
who were maintained at his own table, and formed a part of his
state; and so distinguished was this body, that no higher favour
could have been offered.  Edward likewise paid to Sir Eustace a
considerable sum as the purchase of his illustrious captive, and
this, together with the ransoms of the two other prisoners, enabled
him to reward the faithful men-at-arms, some of whom took service
with other Knights, and others returned to England.  Leonard Ashton
having no pleasant reminiscences of his first campaign, and having
been stripped of all his property by his chosen associates, was
desirous of returning to his father; and Eustace, after restoring
his equipments to something befitting an Esquire of property, and
liberally supplying him with the expenses of his journey, bade
him an affectionate farewell, and saw him depart, not without
satisfaction at no longer feeling himself accountable for his
conduct.

"There he goes," said Gaston, "and I should like to hear the tales
he will amaze the good Somersetshire folk with.  I trow he will
make them believe that he took Du Guesclin himself, and that the
Prince knighted you by mistake."

"His tale of the witches will be something monstrous," said Eustace;
"but still, methinks he is much the better for his expedition: far
less crabbed in temper, and less clownish in manners."

"Ay," said Gaston, "if he were never to be under any other guidance
than yours, I think the tough ash-bough might be moulded into
something less unshapely.  You have a calmness and a temper such as
he cannot withstand, nor I understand.  'Tis not want of spirit, but
it is that you never seem to take or see what is meant for affront.
I should think it tameness in any other."

"Well, poor fellow, I wish he may prosper," said Eustace.  "But now,
Gaston, to our own affairs.  Let us see what remains of the gold."

"Ah! your bounty to our friend there has drawn deeply on our purse,"
said Gaston.

"It shall not be the worse for you, Gaston, for I had set aside these
thirty golden crowns for you before I broke upon my own store.  It is
not such a recompense as Reginald or I myself would have wished after
such loving and faithful service; but gold may never recompense truth."

"As for recompense," said Gaston, "I should be by a long score the
debtor if we came to that.  If it had not been for Sir Reginald,  I
should be by this time a reckless freebooter, without a hope in this
world or the next; if it had not been for you, these bones of mine
would long since have been picked by my cousins, the Spanish wolves.
But let the gold tarry in your keeping: it were better King Edward's
good crowns should not be, after all else that has been, in my hands."

"But, Gaston, you will need fitting out for the service of Sir
William Beauchamp."

"What!  What mean you, Sir Eustace?" cried Gaston.  "What have I
done that you should dismiss me from your followers?"

"Nay, kind Gaston, it were shame that so finished a Squire should be
bound down by my poverty to be the sole follower of a banner which
will never again be displayed at the head of such a band as the
Lances of Lynwood."

"No, Sir Eustace, I leave you not.  Recall your brother's words, 'Go
not back to old ways and comrades,' quoth he; and if you cast me off,
what else is left for me? for having once served a banneret, no other
shall have my service.  Where else should I find one who would care
a feather whether I am dead or alive?  So there it ends--put up your
pieces, or rather, give me one  wherewith to purvey a new bridle for
Brigliador, for the present is far from worthy of his name."

Accordingly, the Gascon Squire still remained attached to Eustace's
service, while the trusty Englishman, John Ingram, performed the
more menial offices.  Time sped away at the court of Bordeaux; the
gallant Du Guesclin was restored to liberty, after twice paying
away his ransom for the deliverance of his less renowned brethren
in captivity, and Enrique of Trastamare, returning to Castile, was
once more crowned by the inhabitants.  His brother Pedro, attempting
to assassinate him, fell by his hand, and all the consequences of
the English expedition were undone--all, save the wasting disease
that preyed on England's heir, and the desolation at the orphaned
hearth of Lynwood Keep.






CHAPTER VIII



Two years had passed since the fight of Navaretta, when Sir Eustace
Lynwood received, by the hands of a Knight newly arrived from England,
a letter from Father Cyril, praying him to return home as soon as
possible, since his sister-in-law, Dame Eleanor, was very sick, and
desired to see him upon matters on which more could not be disclosed
by letter.

Easily obtaining permission to leave Bordeaux, he travelled safely
through France, and crossing from Brittany, at length found himself
once more in Somersetshire.  It was late, and fast growing dark,
when he rode through Bruton; but, eager to arrive, he pushed on,
though twilight had fast faded into night, and heavy clouds, laden
with brief but violent showers, were drifting across the face of
the moon.  On they rode, in silence, save for Gaston's execrations
of the English climate, and the plashing of the horses' feet in the
miry tracks, along which, in many places, the water was rushing in
torrents.

At length they were descending the long low hill, or rather
undulation, leading to the wooded vale of Lynwood, and the bright
lights of the Keep began to gleam like stars in the darkness--stars
indeed to the eager eyes of the young Knight, who gazed upon them
long and affectionately, as he felt himself once more at home.  "I
wonder," said he, "to see the light strongest towards the east end
of the Castle!  I knew not that the altar lights in the chapel could
be seen so far!"  Then riding on more quickly, and approaching more
nearly, he soon lost sight of them behind the walls, and descending
the last little rising ground, the lofty mass of building rose huge
and black before him.

He wound his bugle and rode towards the gate, but at the moment he
expected to cross the drawbridge, Ferragus suddenly backed, and he
perceived that it was raised.  "This is some strange chance!" said
he, renewing the summons, but in vain, for the echoes of the
surrounding woods were the only reply. "Ralph must indeed be deaf!"
said he.

"Let him be stone deaf," said Gaston; "he is not the sole inhabitant
of the Castle.  Try them again, Sir Eustace."

"Hark!--methought I heard the opening of the hall door!" said Eustace.
"No!  What can have befallen them?"

"My teeth are chattering with cold," said Gaston, "and the horses
will be ruined with standing still in the driving rain.  Cannot we
betake ourselves to the village hostel, and in the morning reproach
them with their churlishness?"

"I must be certified that there is nothing amiss," said Sir Eustace,
springing from his saddle; "I can cross the moat on one of the
supports of the bridge."

"Have with you then, Sir Knight," said Gaston, also leaping to the
ground, while Eustace cautiously advanced along the narrow frame of
wood on which the drawbridge had rested, slippery with the wet, and
rendered still more perilous by the darkness.  Gaston followed,
balancing himself with some difficulty, and at last they safely
reached the other side.  Eustace tried the heavy gates, but found
them fastened on the inside with a ponderous wooden bar.  "Most
strange!" muttered he; "yet come on, Gaston, I can find an entrance,
unless old Ralph be more on the alert than I expect."

Creeping along between the walls and the moat, till they had reached
the opposite side of the Keep, Eustace stopped at a low doorway; a
slight click was heard, as of a latch yielding to his hand, the door
opened, and he led the way up a stone staircase in the thickness of
the wall, warning his follower now and then of a broken step.  After
a long steep ascent, Gaston heard another door open, and though still
in total darkness, perceived that they had gained a wider space.
"The passage from the hall to the chapel," whispered the Knight, and
feeling by the wall, they crept along, until a buzz of voices reached
their ears, and light gleamed beneath a heavy dark curtain which
closed the passage.  Pausing for an instant, they heard a voice
tremulous with fear and eagerness: "It was himself! tall plume,
bright armour! the very crosslet on his breast could be seen in the
moonlight!  Oh! it was Sir Reginald himself, and the wild young
French Squire that fell with him in Spain!"

There was a suppressed exclamation of horror, and a sound of
crowding together, and at that moment, Eustace, drawing aside the
curtain, advanced into the light, and was greeted by a frightful
shriek, which made him at first repent of having alarmed his sister,
but the next glance showed him that her place was empty, and a
thrill of dismay made him stand speechless and motionless, as he
perceived that the curtain he grasped was black, and the hall
completely hung with the same colour.

The servants remained huddled in terror round the hearth, and the
pause was first broken by a fair-faced boy, who, breaking from the
trembling circle, came forward, and in a quivering tone said, "Sir,
are you my father's spirit?"

Gaston's laugh came strangely on the scene, but Eustace, bending
down, and holding out his hand, said, "I am your uncle Eustace,
Arthur.  Where is your mother?"

Arthur, with a wild cry of joy, sprung to his neck, and hid his face
on his shoulder; and at the same moment old Ralph, with uplifted
hands, cried, "Blessing on the Saints that my young Lord is safe,
and that mine eyes have seen you once again."

"But where, oh! where is my sister?" again demanded Eustace, as his
eye met that of Father Cyril, who, summoned by the screams of the
servants, had just entered the hall.

"My son," replied the good Father, solemnly, "your sister is where
the wicked may trouble her no more.  It is three days now since she
departed from this world of sorrow."

"Oh, had she but lived to see this day," said Ralph Penrose, "her
cares would have been over!"

"Her prayers are answered," said Father Cyril.  "Come with me, my
son Eustace, if you would take a last look of her who loved and
trusted you so well."

Eustace followed him to the chamber where the Lady Eleanor Lynwood
lay extended on her bed.  Her features were pinched and sharpened,
and bore traces of her long, wasting sufferings, but they still
looked lovely, though awful in their perfect calmness.  Eustace
knelt and recited the accustomed prayers, and then stood gazing on
the serene face, with a full heart, and gathering tears in his eyes,
for he had loved the gentle Eleanor with the trusting affection of
a younger brother.  He thought of that joyous time, the first
brilliant day of his lonely childhood, when the gay bridal cavalcade
came sweeping down the hill, and he, half in pleasure, half in
shyness, was led forth by his mother to greet the fair young bride
of his brother.  How had she brightened the dull old Keep, and given,
as it were, a new existence to himself, a dreamy, solitary boy--how
patiently and affectionately had she tended his mother, and how
pleasant were the long evenings when she had unwearily listened to
his beloved romances, and his visions of surpassing achievements of
his own!  No wonder that he wept for her as a brother would weep for
an elder sister.

Father Cyril, well pleased to perceive that the kindly tenderness of
his heart was still untouched by his intercourse with the world, let
him gaze on for some time in silence, then laying his hand on his arm
said, "She is in peace.  Mourn not that her sorrows are at an end,
her tears wiped away, but prepare to fulfil her last wishes, those
prayers in answer to which, as I fully believe, the Saints have sent
you at
 the very moment of greatest need."

"Her last wishes?" said Eustace.  "They shall be fulfilled to the
utmost as long as I have life or breath!  Oh! had I but come in
time to hear them from herself, and give her my own pledge."

"Grieve not that her trust was not brought down to aught of earth,"
said Father Cyril.  "She trusted in Heaven, and died in the sure
belief that her child would be guarded; and lo, his protector is
come, if, as I well believe, my son Eustace, you are not changed
from the boy who bade us farewell three years ago."

"If I am changed, it is not in my love for home, and for all who
dwell there," said Eustace, "or rather, I love them better than
before.  Little did I dream what a meeting awaited me!"  Again
there was a long pause, which Eustace at length broke by saying,
"What is the need you spoke of?  What danger do you fear?"

"This is no scene for dwelling on the evil deeds of wicked men
otherwise than to pray for them," said the Priest; "but return
with me to the hall, and you shall hear."

Eustace lingered a few moments longer, before, heaving a deep sigh
he returned to the hall, where he found Gaston and Ingram, just come
in from attending to the horses, and Ralph hurrying the servants in
setting out an ample meal for the travellers.

"My good old friend," said Eustace, holding out his hand as he
entered, "I have not greeted you aright.  You must throw the blame
on the tidings that took from me all other thought, Ralph; for never
was there face which I was more rejoiced to see.

"It was the blame of our own reception of you, Sir Eustace," said
old Penrose.  "I could tear my hair to think that you should have
met with no better welcome than barred gates and owlet shrieks;
but did you but know how wildly your bugle-blast rose upon our
ear, while we sat over the fire well-nigh distraught with sorrow,
you would not marvel that we deemed that the spirit of our good
Knight might be borne upon the moaning wind."

"Yet," said Arthur, "I knew the note, and would have gone to the
turret window, but that Mistress Cicely held me fast; and when
they sent Jocelyn to look, the cowardly knave brought back the
tale which you broke short."

"Boast not, Master Arthur," said Gaston; "you believed in our
ghostship as fully as any of them."

"But met us manfully," said Eustace.  "But why all these precautions?
Why the drawbridge raised?  That could scarce be against a ghost."

"Alas!  Sir Eustace, there are bodily foes abroad!" said Ralph.  "By
your leave, Master d'Aubricour," as Gaston was about to assist his
Knight in unfastening his armour, "none shall lay a hand near Sir
Eustace but myself on this first night of his return; thanks be to
St. Dunstan that he has come!"  Eustace stood patiently for several
minutes while the old man fumbled with his armour, and presently
came the exclamation, "A plague on these new-fangled clasps which
a man cannot undo for his life!  'Twas this low corselet that was
the death of good Sir Reginald.  I always said that no good would
come of these fashions!"

In process of time, Eustace was disencumbered of his heavy armour;
but when he stood before him in his plain dress of chamois leather,
old Ralph shook his head, disappointed that he had not attained the
height or the breadth of the stalwart figures of his father and
brother, but was still slight and delicate looking.  The golden
spurs and the sword of Du Guesclin, however, rejoiced the old man's
heart, and touching them almost reverentially, he placed the large
arm-chair at the head of the table, and began eagerly to invite him
to eat.

Eustace was too sorrowful and too anxious to be inclined for food,
and long before his followers had finished their meal, he turned
from the table, and asked for an account of what had befallen in
his absence; for there was at that time no more idea of privacy in
conversation than such as was afforded by the comparative seclusion
of the party round the hearth, consisting of the Knight, his arm
around his little nephew, who was leaning fondly against him; of
Father Cyril, of Gaston, and old Ralph, in his wonted nook, his
elbow on his knee, and his chin on his hand, feasting his eyes with
the features of his beloved pupil.  In answer to the query, "Who is
the enemy you fear?" there was but one answer, given in different
tones, "The Lord de Clarenham!"

"Ha!" cried Eustace, "it was justly then that your father, Arthur,
bade me beware of him when he committed you to my charge on the
battle-field of Navaretta."

"Did he so?" exclaimed Father Cyril.  "Did he commit the boy to your
guardianship?  Formally and before witnesses?"

"I can testify to it, good Father," said Gaston.  "Ay! and you, Ingram,
must have been within hearing--to say nothing of Du Guesclin."

"And Leonard Ashton," said Ingram.

"It is well," said Father Cyril; "he will be here to-morrow to be
confronted with Clarenham.  It is the personal wardship that is of
chief importance, and dwelt most on my Lady's mind."

"Clarenham lays claim then to the guardianship?" asked Eustace.

Father Cyril proceeded with a narrative, the substance of which was
as follows:--Simon de Clarenham, as has been mentioned, had obtained
from King Edward, in the days of the power of Isabel and Mortimer, a
grant of the manor of Lynwood, but on the fall of the wicked Queen,
the rightful owner had been reinstated, without, however, any formal
revocation of the unjust grant.  Knowing it would cost but a word of
Sir Reginald to obtain its recall, both Simon and Fulk de Clarenham
had done their best to make him forget its existence; but no sooner
did the news of his death reach England, than Fulk began to take an
ungenerous advantage of the weakness of his heir.  He sent a summons
for the dues paid by vassals to their Lord on a new succession, and
on Eleanor's indignant refusal, followed it up by a further claim to
the wardship of the person of Arthur himself, both in right of his
alleged feudal superiority, and as the next of kin who was of full
age.  Again was his demand refused, and shortly after Lady Lynwood's
alarms were brought to a height by an attempt on his part to waylay
her son and carry him off by force, whilst riding in the neighbourhood
of the Castle.  The plot had failed, by the fidelity of the villagers
of Lynwood, but the shock to the lady had increased the progress of
the decay of her health, already undermined by grief.  She never
again trusted her son beyond the Castle walls; she trembled whenever
he was out of her sight, and many an hour did she spend kneeling
before the altar in the chapel.  On her brother-in-law, Sir Eustace,
her chief hope was fixed; on him she depended for bringing Arthur's
case before the King, and, above all, for protecting him from the
attacks of the enemy of his family, rendered so much more dangerous
by his relationship.  She did not believe that actual violence to
Arthur's person was intended, but Fulk's house had of late become
such an abode of misrule, that his mother and sister had been
obliged to leave it for a Convent, and the tales of the lawlessness
which there prevailed were such that she would have dreaded nothing
more for her son than a residence there, even if Fulk had no interest
in oppressing him.

That Eustace should return to take charge of his nephew before her
death was her chief earthly wish, and when she found herself rapidly
sinking, and the hope of its fulfilment lessening, she obtained a
promise from Father Cyril that he would conduct the boy to the Abbey
of Glastonbury, and there obtain from the Abbot protection for him
until his uncle should return, or the machinations of Fulk be
defeated by an appeal to the King.

This was accordingly Father Cyril's intention.  It was unavoidable
that Fulk, the near kinsman of the deceased, should be present at
the funeral, but Father Cyril had intended to keep Arthur within
the sanctuary of the chapel until he could depart under the care
of twelve monks of Glastonbury, who were coming in the stead of
the Abbot--he being, unfortunately, indisposed.  Sir Philip Ashton
had likewise been invited, in the hope that his presence might prove
a check upon Clarenham.






CHAPTER IX



With the first dawn of morning, the chapel bell began to toll, and
was replied to by the deeper sound of the bell of the parish church.
Soon the court began to be filled with the neighbouring villagers,
with beggars, palmers, mendicant friars of all orders, pressing to
the buttery-hatch, where they received the dole of bread, meat, and
ale, from the hands of the pantler, under the direction of the almoner
of Glastonbury, who requested their prayers for the soul of the noble
Sir Reginald Lynwood, and Dame Eleanor of Clarenham, his wife.  The
peasantry of Lynwood, and the beggars, whose rounds brought them
regularly to the Keep of Lynwood, and who had often experienced the
bounty of the departed lady, replied with tears and blessings.  There
were not wanting the usual though incongruous accompaniments of such
a scene--the jugglers and mountebanks, who were playing their tricks
in one corner.

Within the hall, all was in sad, sober, and solemn array, contrasting
with the motley concourse in the court.  Little Arthur, dressed in
black, stood by the side of his uncle, to receive the greetings of
his yeoman vassals, as they came in, one by one, with clownish
courtesy, but hearty respect and affection, and great satisfaction
at the unexpected appearance of the young Knight.

Next came in long file, mounted on their sleek mules, the twelve
monks of Glastonbury, whom the Knight and his nephew reverently
received at the door, and conducted across the hall to the chapel,
where the parish Priest, Father Cyril, and some of the neighbouring
clergy had been chanting psalms since morning light.  On the way Sir
Eustace held some conference with the chief, Brother Michael, who
had come prepared to assist in conveying Arthur, if possible, to
Glastonbury, but was very glad to find that the Knight was able to
take upon himself the charge of his nephew, without embroiling the
Abbey with so formidable an enemy as Lord de Clarenham.

The next arrival was Sir Philip Ashton and his son, who could hardly
believe their eyes when Eustace met them.  Leonard's manner was at
first cordial; but presently, apparently checked by some sudden
recollection, he drew back, and stood in sheepish embarrassment,
fumbling with his dagger, while Sir Philip was lavishing compliments
on Eustace, who was rejoiced when the sound of horses made it
necessary to go and meet Lord de Clarenham at the door.  Arthur
looked up in Sir Fulk's face, with a look in which curiosity and
defiance were expressed; while Fulk, on his side, was ready to
grind his teeth with vexation at the unexpected sight of the only
man who could interfere with his projects.  Then he glanced at his
own numerous and well-appointed retinue, compared them with the
small number of the Lynwood vassals, and with another look at his
adversary's youthful and gentle appearance, he became reassured,
and returned his salutations with haughty ceremony.

The whole company moved in solemn procession towards the chapel,
where the mass and requiem were chanted, and the corpse of the Lady
Eleanor, inclosed in a stone coffin, was lowered to its resting-
place, in the vault of her husband's ancestors.

It was past noon when the banquet was spread in the hall; a higher
table on the dais for the retainers and yeomanry, the latter of whom
were armed with dagger, short sword, or quarter-staff.

Sir Philip Ashton and Brother Michael were chiefly at the expense of
the conversation, Eustace meanwhile doing the honours with grave
courtesy, taking care to keep his nephew by his side.  There was
no one who did not feel as if on the eve of a storm; but all was
grave and decorous; and at length Brother Michael and the monks of
Glastonbury, rejoicing that they, at least, had escaped a turmoil,
took their leave, mounted their mules, and rode off, in all
correctness of civility toward the house of Lynwood, which, as
Eustace could not help feeling, they thus left to fight its own
battles.

"It waxes late," said Lord de Clarenham, rising; "bring out the
horses, Miles; and you, my young kinsman, Arthur, you are to be my
guest from henceforth.  Come, therefore, prepare for the journey."

Arthur held fast by the hand of his uncle, who replied, "I thank you
in my nephew's name for your intended hospitality, but I purpose at
once to conduct him to Bordeaux, to be enrolled among the Prince's
pages."

"Conduct him to Bordeaux, said the Knight?" answered Sir Fulk with
a sneer; "to Bordeaux forsooth!  It is well for you, my fair young
cousin, that I have other claims to you, since, were you once out
of England, I can well guess who would return to claim the lands
of Lynwood."

"What claim have you to his wardship, Sir Fulk?" asked Eustace,
coldly, disdaining to take notice of the latter part of this speech.

"As his feudal superior, and his nearest relation of full age,"
replied Clarenham.

"There are many here who can prove that it is twenty-one years past,
since I was born on the feast of St. Eustace," replied the young
Knight.  "The house of Lynwood owns no master beneath the King of
England, and the wardship of my nephew was committed to me by both
his parents.  Here is a witness of the truth of my words.  Holy
Father, the parchment!"

Father Cyril spread a thick roll, with heavy seals, purporting to be
the last will and testament of Dame Eleanor Lynwood, bequeathing the
wardship and marriage of her son to her beloved brother, Sir Eustace
Lynwood, Knight Banneret, and, in his absence, to the Lord Abbot of
Glastonbury, and Cyril Langton, Clerk.

"It is nought," said Clarenham, pushing it from him; "the Lady
of Lynwood had no right to make a will in this manner, since she
unlawfully detained her son from me, his sole guardian."

"The force of the will may be decided by the King's justices," said
Eustace; "but my rights are not founded on it alone.  My brother,
Sir Reginald, with his last words, committed his son to my charge."

"What proof do you bring, Sir Eustace?" said Fulk.  "I question not
your word, but something more is needed in points of law, and you
can scarcely expect the world to believe that Sir Reginald would
commit his only child to the guardianship of one so young, and the
next heir."

"I am here to prove it, my Lord," said Gaston, eagerly.  "'To your
care I commit him, Eustace,' said Sir Reginald, as he lay with his
head on his brother's breast; and methought he also added, 'Beware
of Clarenham.'  Was it not so, friend Leonard?"

Leonard's reply was not readily forthcoming.  His father was
whispering in his ear, whilst he knit his brow, shuffled with his
feet, and shrugged his shoulder disrespectfully in his father's
face.

"Speak, Master Ashton," said Clarenham, in a cold incredulous tone,
and bending on father and son glances which were well understood.
"To your testimony, respectable and uninterested, credit must be
added."

"What mean you by that, Sir Fulk de Clarenham?" cried Gaston; "for
what do you take me and my word?"

"Certain tales of you and your companions, Sir Squire," answered
Clarenham, "do not dispose me to take a Gascon's word for more than
it is worth."

"This passes!" cried Gaston, striking his fist on the table; "you
venture it because you are not of my degree!  Here, ye craven
Squires, will not one of you take up my glove, when I cast back
in his teeth your master's foul slander of an honourable Esquire?"

"Touch it not, I command you," said Clarenham, "unless Master
d'Aubricour will maintain that he never heard of a certain one-
eyed Basque, and never rode on a free-booting foray with the robber
Knight, Perduccas d'Albret."

"What of that?" fiercely cried Gaston.

"Quite enough, Sir Squire," said Fulk, coolly.

Gaston was about to break into a tempest of rage, when Eustace's
calm voice and gesture checked him.

"Sir Fulk," said Eustace, "were you at Bordeaux, you would know that
no man's word can be esteemed more sacred, or his character more high,
than that of Gaston d'Aubricour."

"But in the meantime," said Clarenham, "we must be content to take
that, as well as much besides, on your own assertion, Sir Eustace.
Once more, Master Leonard Ashton, let me hear your testimony, as to
the dying words of Sir Reginald Lynwood.  I am content to abide by
them."

"Come, Leonard," said his father, who had been whispering with him
all this time, "speak up; you may be grieved to disappoint a once-
friendly companion, but you could not help the defect of your ears."

"Sir Philip, I pray you not to prompt your son," said Eustace.
"Stand forth, Leonard, on your honour.  Did you or did you not
hear the words of my brother, as he lay on the bank of the Zadorra?"

Leonard half rose, as if to come towards him, but his father held
him fast; he looked down, and muttered, "Ay, truly, I heard Sir
Reginald say somewhat."

"Tell it out, then."

"He thanked the Prince for knighting you--he prayed him to have
charge of his wife and child--he bade Gaston not to return to evil
courses," said Leonard, bringing out his sentences at intervals.

"And afterwards," said Eustace sternly--"when the Prince was gone?
On your honour, Leonard."

Leonard almost writhed himself beneath the eyes that Eustace kept
steadily fixed on him.  "Somewhat--somewhat he might have said of
knightly training for his son--but--but what do I know?" he added,
as his father pressed hard on his foot; "it was all in your ear,
for as he lay on your breast, his voice grew so faint, that I could
hear little through my helmet."

"Nay, Master Ashton," said John Ingram, pressing forward, "if I
remember right, you had thrown off your helmet, saying it was as
hot as a copper cauldron; and besides, our good Knight, when he
said those words touching Master Arthur, raised himself up
somewhat, and spoke out louder, as if that we might all hear and
bear witness."

"No witness beyond your own train, Sir Eustace?" said Clarenham.

"None," said Eustace, "excepting one whose word even you will scarcely
dare to dispute, Sir Bertrand du Guesclin."

"I dispute no man's word, Sir Eustace," said Fulk; "I only say that
until the claim which you allege be proved in the King's Court, I am
the lawful guardian of the lands and person of the heir of Lynwood.
The Lord Chancellor Wykeham may weigh the credit to be attached to
the witness of this highly respectable Esquire, or this long-eared
man-at-arms, or may send beyond seas for the testimony of Du Guesclin:
in the meantime, I assume my office.  Come here, boy."

"I will not come to you, Lord Fulk," said Arthur; "or when I do, it
shall be sword in hand to ask for an account for the tears you have
made my sweet mother shed."

"Bred up in the same folly!" said Fulk.  "Once more, Sir Eustace,
will you yield him to me, or must I use force?"

"I have vowed before his mother's corpse to shield him from you,"
returned Eustace.

"Think of the consequences, Sir Eustace," said Sir Philip Ashton,
coming up to him.  "Remember the unrepealed grant to the Clarenhams.
The Lynwood manor may be at any moment resumed, to which, failing
your nephew, you are heir.  You will ruin him and yourself."

"It is his person, not his lands, that I am bound to guard," said
Eustace.  "Let him do his worst; my nephew had better be a landless
man, than one such as Fulk would make him."

"Think," continued Sir Philip, "of the disadvantages to your cause
of provoking a fray at such a time.  Hold your hand, and yield the
boy, at least till the cause come before the Chancellor."

"Never," said Eustace.  "His parents have trusted him to me, and
I will fulfil my promise.  The scandal of the fray be on him who
occasions it."

"Recollect, my Lord," said Ashton, turning to Fulk, "that this may
be misrepresented.  These young warriors are hot and fiery, and this
young Knight, they say, has succeeded to all his brother's favour
with the Prince."

"I will not be bearded by a boy," returned Clarenham, thrusting him
aside.  "Hark you, Sir Eustace.  You have been raised to a height
which has turned your head, your eyes have been dazzled by the
gilding of your spurs, and you have fancied yourself a man; but in
your own county and your own family, airs are not to be borne.  We
rate you at what you are worth, and are not to be imposed on by idle
tales which the boastful young men of the Prince's court frame of
each other.  Give up these pretensions, depart in peace to your
fellows at Bordeaux, and we will forget your insolent interference."

"Never, while I live," replied Eustace.  "Vassals of Lynwood, guard
your young Lord."

"Vassals of Lynwood," said Fulk, will you see your young Lord carried
off to perish in some unknown region, and yourselves left a prey to
an adventurer and freebooter?"

"For that matter, my Lord," said an old farmer, "if all tales be true,
Master Arthur is like to learn less harm with Sir Eustace than in your
jolly household--I for one will stand by our good Lord's brother to
the last.  What say you, comrades?"

"Hurrah for the Lances of Lynwood!" shouted John Ingram, and the cry
was taken up by many a gruff honest voice, till the hall rang again,
and the opposing shout of "a Clarenham, a Clarenham!" was raised by
the retainers of the Baron.  Eustace, at the same moment, raised his
nephew in his arms, and lifted him up into the embrasure of one of
the high windows.  Sir Philip Ashton still hung upon Clarenham,
pleading in broken sentences which were lost in the uproar: "Hold!
Hold! my Lord.  Nay, nay, think but"--(here he was thrust roughly
aside by Fulk)--"Sir Eustace, do but hear--it will be a matter for
the council--in the name of the King--for the love of Heaven--Leonard,
son Leonard! for Heaven's sake what have you to do with the matter?
Down with that sword, and follow me!  Dost not hear, froward boy?
Our names will be called in question!  Leonard, on your duty--Ha!
have a care! there!"

These last words were broken short, as Gaston, rushing forwards to
his master's side, overthrew the table, which carried Sir Philip with
it in the fall, and he lay prostrate under the boards, a stumbling-
block to a stream of eager combatants, who one after another dashed
against him, fell, and either rose again, or remained kicking and
struggling with each other.

After several minutes' confused fighting, the tumult cleared away,
as it were, leaving the principals on each side opposite to each
other, and as the fortune of the day rested on their conflict, all
became gradually fixed in attention, resting upon their weapons, in
readiness at any moment to renew their own portion of the combat.

Fulk, tall and robust, had far more the appearance of strength than
his slenderly-made antagonist, but three years in the school of
chivalry had not been wasted by Eustace, and the sword of Du Guesclin
was in a hand well accustomed to its use.  Old Ralph was uttering
under his breath ecstatic exclamations: "Ha!  Well struck!  A rare
foil--a perfect hit--Have a care--Ah! there comes my old blow--That
is right--Old Sir Henry's master-stroke-- There--one of your new
French backstrokes--but it told--Oh! have a care--The Saints guard--
Ay--There--Follow it up!  Hurrah for Lynwood!" as Fulk tottered,
slipped, sank on one knee, and receiving a severe blow on the head
with the back of the sword, measured his length on the ground.

"Hurrah for Lynwood!" re-echoed through the hall, but Eustace cut
short the clamour at once, by saying, "Peace, my friends, and thanks!
Sir Fulk de Clarenham," he added, as his fallen foe moved, and began
to raise himself, "you have received a lesson, by which I hope you
will profit.  Leave the house, whose mourning you have insulted, and
thank your relationship that I forbear to bring this outrage to the
notice of the King."

While Eustace spoke, Fulk had, by the assistance of two of his
retainers, recovered his feet; but though unwounded, he was so
dizzied with the blow as to be passive in their hands, and to
allow himself to be led into the court, and placed on his horse.
Before riding out of the gates, he turned round, and clenching
his fist, glanced malignantly at Eustace, and muttered, "You shall
aby it."

Another shout of "Down with the false Clarenham!  Hurrah for the
Lances of Lynwood, and the brave young Knight!" was raised in the
court by the peasantry, among whom Fulk was so much hated, that not
even regard for their future welfare could prevent them from indulging
in this triumph.  Probably, too, they expected the satisfaction of
drinking the health of the victor, for there were many disappointed
countenances when he spoke from the steps of the porch:--"Thanks for
your good-will, my friends.  Fare ye well, depart in peace, and
remember your young Lord."  Then turning to the parish Priest, he
added, in a low voice, "See that they leave the Castle as soon as
possible.  The gates must be secured as soon as may be."

He turned back into the hall, and at the door was met by little
Arthur, who caught hold of his hand, exclaiming, "So you have
won me, and shall keep me forever, Uncle Eustace; but come in,
for here is poor old Sir Philip, who was thrown down under the
table in the scuffle, bemoaning himself most lamentably."

"Sir Philip hurt?" said Eustace, who, vexed as he was by Sir Philip's
behaviour, preserved a certain neighbourly hereditary respect for
him; "I trust not seriously," and he advanced towards the arm-chair,
where Sir Philip Ashton was sitting, attended by Father Cyril and a
man-at-arms, and groaning and complaining of his bruises, while at
the same time he ordered the horses to be brought out as speedily as
possible.

"Surely," said Eustace, "you should not be in such haste, Sir Philip.
I grieve that you should have met with this mishap.  But you had
better remain here, and try what rest will do for you."

"Remain here!" said Sir Philip, almost shuddering.  "Nay, nay, my
young Sir, I would not have you to remain here, nor any of us, for
longer space than the saddling of a horse.  Alas! alas! my young
friend, I grieve for you.  I loved your father well.--Look from the
window, Leonard.  Are the horses led forth?"

"But why this haste?" asked Sir Eustace.  "You are heavily bruised--
best let Father Cyril look to your hurts."

"Thanks, Sir Eustace; but--Ah! my back!--but I would not remain under
this roof for more than you could give me.  I should but endanger
myself without benefiting you.  Alas! alas! that I should have fallen
upon such a fray!  I am sorry for you, my brave youth!"

"I thank you, Sir Philip, but I know not what I have done to deserve
your concern."

"Hot blood! wilful blood!" said Sir Philip, shaking his head.  "Are
the horses come?  Here! your hand, Leonard, help me to rise--Ah! ah!
not so fast--Oh! I shall never get over it!  There--mind you, I did
all to prevent this unhappy business--I am clear of it!  Fare you
well, Sir Eustace--take an old man's advice, give up the boy, and
leave the country before worse comes of it."

"What is likely to come of it?" said Eustace; "Clarenham made an
uncalled-for, unjust, shameless attempt to seize the person of
my ward.  I repelled him by force of arms, and I think he would
scarce like to call the attention of justice to his own share in
the matter."

"Ah! well, you speak boldly, but before you have reached my years,
you will have learnt what it is to have for your foe the most mighty
man of the county--nay, of the court; for your foe, Lord de Clarenham,
is in close friendship with the Earl of Pembroke.  Beware, my young
friend, beware!"

When the hall was clear of guests, a council was held between the
Knight, the Priest, and the two Esquires.  Its result was, that
Arthur's person, as the most important point, should be secured,
by his uncle carrying him at once to the Prince's protection at
Bordeaux; but it was only with difficulty that Eustace was
prevailed on to fly, as he said, from his accusers.  The good
Father had to say, with a smile, that after all there was as much
need for patience and submission under the helm as under the cowl,
before Eustace at length consented.  Cyril meanwhile was to lay the
case before the Chancellor, William of Wykeham, and Eustace gave him
letters to the Duke of Lancaster and to Sir Richard Ferrars, in the
hopes of their recommending his suit.

Eustace then received from the hands of the Priest a bag of gold
coins, his portion as a younger son, part of which he gave to be
distributed in alms, part he still confided to Father Cyril's
keeping, and the rest he was to take away for present needs--and
they parted for the last night of his brief stay at Lynwood Keep.






CHAPTER X



In the early morning, Sir Eustace and his few followers were in
their saddles, little Arthur riding between his uncle and Gaston.
The chief part of the day was spent on the journey.  They dined, to
Arthur's glee, on provisions they had brought with them, seated on
a green bank near a stream, and at evening found themselves at the
door of a large hostel, its open porch covered by a vine.

The host and his attendants ran out at first to meet them with
alacrity, but, on seeing them, appeared disappointed.  And as the
Knight, dismounting, ordered supper and bed, the host replied that
he could indeed engage to find food, and to accommodate their
steeds, but that the whole of the inn had been secured on behalf
of two noble ladies and their train, who were each moment expected.

"Be it so," said Eustace; "a truss of hay beside our horses, or a
settle by the fire, is all we need.  Here is a taste already of a
warrior's life for you, Arthur."

The boy was delighted, certain that to sleep beside his pony was far
more delightful, as well as more manly, than to rest in his bed, like
a lady at home.

As this was arranged, a sound of horses' feet approached, and a
band of men-at-arms rode up to the door.  Arthur started and
seized his uncle's hand as he recognized the Clarenham colours
and badge, uttering an exclamation of dismay.  "Never fear,
Arthur," said Eustace, "they come from the way opposite to ours.
It is not pursuit.  See, it is an escort--there are ladies among
them."

"Four!" said Arthur.  "Uncle, that tall dame in black must be the
Lady Muriel.  And surely the white veil tied with rose-colour
belongs to kind Cousin Agnes."

"True!  These are no Clarenhams to guard against," said Eustace to
his Squire, who looked ready for action.  "Lady Muriel, the step-
mother of the Baron and his sister, is my godmother, and, by birth,
a Lynwood."

Then stepping forward, he assisted the elder lady to dismount; she
returned his courtesy by a slight inclination, as to a stranger,
but her companion, who had lightly sprung to the ground, no sooner
perceived him than she exclaimed, "Eustace!" then laying her hand
on Lady Muriel's arm, "Mother, it is Sir Eustace Lynwood."

"Ha! my gallant godson!" said the Baroness, greeting him cordially.
"Well met, brave youth!  No wonder in that knightly figure I did not
know my kinswoman's little page.  How does my gentle niece, Eleanor?"

"Alack! then you have not heard the tidings?" said Eustace.

"We heard long since she was sick with grief," said Lady Muriel, much
alarmed.  "What mean you?  Is she worse?  You weep--surely she still
lives!"

"Ah! honoured dame, we come even now from laying her in her grave.
Here is her orphan boy."

Young Agnes could not restrain a cry of grief and horror, and trying
to repress her weeping till it should be without so many witnesses,
Lady Muriel and her bower-woman led her to their apartments in the
inn.  Eustace was greatly affected by her grief.  She had often
accompanied her step-mother on visits to Lynwood Keep in the peaceful
days of their childhood; she had loved no sport better than to sit
listening to his romantic discourses of chivalry, and had found in
the shy, delicate, dreamy boy, something congenial to her own quiet
nature; and, in short, when Eustace indulged in a vision, Agnes was
ever the lady of it, the pale slight Agnes, with no beauty save her
large soft brown eyes, that seemed to follow and take in every fancy
or thought of his.  Agnes was looked down on,--her father thought she
would do him little honour,--her brother cared not for her; save for
her step-mother she would have met with little fostering attention,
and when Eustace saw her set aside and disregarded, his heart had
bounded with the thought that when he should lay his trophies at her
feet, Agnes would be honoured for his sake.  But Eustace's honours
had been barren, and he could only look back with a sad heart to the
fancies of his youth, when he had deemed Knight-errantry might win
the lady of his love.

Eleanor had been one of the few who had known and loved the damsel
of Clarenham, and had encouraged her to lay aside her timidity.
Agnes wept for her as a sister, and still could hardly restrain
her sobs, when Eustace and his nephew were invited to the presence
of the ladies to narrate their melancholy tale.

Many tears were shed, and caresses lavished upon the orphan.  The
ladies asked his destination, and on hearing that he was to be
taken to the Prince's court at Bordeaux, Agnes said, "We, too, are
bound to the Prince's court.  I am to journey thither with Fulk.
Were it not better for Arthur to travel with us?  Most carefully
would we guard him.  It would spare him many a hardship, for which
he is scarce old enough; and his company would be a solace, almost
a protection to me.  My pretty playfellow, will you be my travelling
companion?"

"I would go with you, Cousin Agnes, for you are kind and gentle, and
I love you well; but a brave Knight's son must learn to rough it;
and besides, I would not go with Sir Fulk, your brother, for he is
a false and cruel Knight, who persecuted my blessed mother to the
very death."

"Can this be?  O speak, Eustace!" said Agnes.  "What means the boy?
Hath Fulk shown himself other than a loving kinsman?"

The Baroness, who understood her step-son's character better than
did his young sister, and who was informed of the old enmity between
the two houses, felt considerable anxiety as to what they were now
to hear; when Eustace, beginning, "Ah, Lady, I grieve twice in the
day to sadden your heart; yet since so much has been said, it were
best to relate the whole truth," proceeded to tell what had passed
respecting the wardship of young Arthur.  Agnes's eyes filled with
burning tears of indignation.  "O dear Lady Mother!" cried she, "take
me back to our Convent!  How can I meet my brother!  How conceal my
anger and my shame!"

"This is far worse than even I feared," said Lady Muriel.  "I knew
Fulk to be unscrupulous and grasping, but I did not think him capable
of such foul oppression.  For you, my sweet Agnes--would that I  could
prevail on him to leave you in the safe arms of the cloister-- but,
alas!  I have no right to detain you from a brother's guardianship."

"I dreaded this journey much before," said Agnes; "but now, even my
trust in Fulk is gone; I shall see round me no one in whom to place
confidence.  Alas! alas!"

"Nay, fair Agnes," said Eustace, "he will surely be a kind brother
to thee--he cannot be otherwise."

"How love and trust when there is no esteem?  Oh, Mother, Mother!
this is loneliness indeed!  In that strange, courtly throng, who
will protect and shelter me?"

"There is an Arm--" began the Baroness.

"Yes, noble Lady, there is one arm," eagerly exclaimed Eustace, "that
would only deem itself too much honoured if it could be raised in your
service."

"I spoke of no arm of flesh," said Lady Muriel, reprovingly--and
Eustace hung his head abashed.  "I spake of the Guardian who will
never be wanting to the orphan."

There was a silence, first broken by Eustace.  "One thing there is,
that I would fain ask of your goodness," said he: "many a false tale,
many a foul slander, will be spoken of me, and many may give heed to
them; but let that be as it will, they shall not render my heart
heavy while I can still believe that you give no ear to them."

"Sir Eustace," said the Lady of Clarenham, "I have known you from
childhood, and it would go hard with me to believe aught dishonourable
of the pupil of Sir Reginald and of Eleanor."

"Yes, Sir Eustace," added Agnes, "it would break my heart to distrust
you; for then I must needs believe that faith, truth, and honour had
left the world."

"And now," said Lady Muriel, who thought the conversation had been
sufficiently tender to fulfil all the requirements of the connection
of families, and of their old companionship, "now, Agnes, we must
take leave of our kind kinsman, since, doubtless, he will desire to
renew his journey early to-morrow."

Eustace took the hint, and bent his knee to kiss the hands which
were extended to him by the two ladies; then left the room, feeling,
among all the clouds which darkened his path, one clear bright ray
to warm and gladden his heart.  Agnes trusted his truth, Agnes would
be at Bordeaux,--he might see her, and she would hear of his deeds.

Agnes, while she wept over her kinswoman's death and her brother's
faults, rejoiced in having met her old playfellow, and found him as
noble a Knight as her fancy had often pictured him; and in the
meanwhile, the good old Lady Muriel sighed to herself, and shook
her head at the thought of the sorrows which an attachment would
surely cause to these two young creatures.

It was early in the morning that Eustace summoned his nephew from
the couch which one of the Clarenham retainers had yielded him, and,
mounting their horses, they renewed their journey towards the coast.

Without further adventure, the Lances of Lynwood, as Arthur still
chose to call their little party, safely arrived at Rennes, the
capital of Brittany, where Jean de Montford held his court.  Here
they met the tidings that Charles V. had summoned the Prince of
Wales to appear at his court, to answer an appeal made against
him to the sovereign by the vassals of the Duchy of Aquitaine.
Edward's answer was, that he would appear indeed, but that it
should be in full armour, with ten thousand Knights and Squires
at his back; and the war had already been renewed.

The intelligence added to Eustace's desire to be at Bordeaux, but
he could not venture through the enemy's country without exposing
himself to death or captivity; and even within the confines of
Brittany itself, Duke John, though bound by gratitude and affection
to the alliance of the King, who had won for him his ducal coronet,
was unable to control the enmity which his subjects bore to the
English, and assured the Knight that a safe-conduct from him would
only occasion his being robbed and murdered in secret, instead of
being taken a prisoner in fair fight and put to ransom.

If Eustace had been alone with his staunch followers, he would have
trusted to their good swords and swift steeds; but to place Arthur
in such perils would be but to justify Fulk's accusations; and there
was no alternative but to accept the offer made to him by Jean de
Montford, for the sake of his Duchess, a daughter of Edward III., to
remain a guest at his court until the arrival of a sufficient party
of English Knights, who were sure to be attracted by the news of
the war.

No less than two months was he obliged to wait, during which both
he and Gaston chafed grievously under their forced captivity; but
at length he learnt that a band of Free Companions had arrived at
Rennes, on their way to offer their service to the Prince of Wales;
accordingly he set forth, and after some interval found himself once
more in the domains of the house of Plantagenet.

It was late in the evening when he rode through the gates of Bordeaux,
and sought the abode of the good old Gascon merchant, where he had
always lodged.  He met with a ready welcome, and inquiring into the
most recent news of the town, learnt that the Prince was considered
to be slightly improved in health; but that no word was spoken of
the army taking the field, and the war was chiefly carried on by the
siege of Castles.  He asked for Sir John Chandos, and was told that
high words had passed between him and the Prince respecting a hearth-
tax, and that since he had returned to his government, and seldom
or never appeared at the council board.  It was the Earl of Pembroke
who was all-powerful there.  And here the old Gascon wandered into
lamentable complaints of the aforesaid hearth-tax, from which Eustace
could scarcely recall him to answer whether the English Baron de
Clarenham had arrived at Bordeaux.  He had come, and with as splendid
a train as ever was beheld, and was in high favour at court.

This was no pleasing intelligence, but Eustace determined to go the
next day to present his nephew to the Prince immediately after the
noontide meal, when it was the wont of the Plantagenet Princes to
throw their halls open to their subjects.

Accordingly, leading Arthur by the hand, and attended by Gaston, he
made his appearance in the hall just as the banquet was concluded,
but ere the Knights had dispersed.  Many well-known faces were there,
but as he advanced up the space between the two long tables, he was
amazed at meeting scarce one friendly glance of recognition; some
looked unwilling to seem to know him, and returned his salutation
with distant coldness; others gazed at the window, or were intent on
their wine, and of these was Leonard Ashton, whom to his surprise he
saw seated among the Knights.

Thus he passed on until he had nearly reached the dais where dined
the Prince and the personages of the most exalted rank.  Here he
paused as his anxious gaze fell upon the Prince, and marked his
countenance and mien--alas! how changed!  He sat in his richly-
carved chair, wrapped in a velvet mantle, which, even on that
bright day of a southern spring, he drew closer round him with a
shuddering chilliness.  His elbow rested on the arm of his chair,
and his wasted cheek leant on his hand--the long thin fingers of
which showed white and transparent as a lady's; his eyes were bent
on the ground, and a look of suffering or of moody thought hung over
the whole of that face, once full of free and open cheerfulness.
Tears filled Eustace's eyes as he beheld that wreck of manhood and
thought of that bright day of hope and gladness when his brother
had presented him to the Prince.

As he hesitated to advance, the Prince, raising his eyes, encountered
that earnest and sorrowful gaze, but only responding by a stern glance
of displeasure.  Eustace, however, stepped forward, and bending one
knee, said, "My Lord, I come to report myself as returned to your
service, and at the same time to crave for my nephew the protection
you were graciously pleased to promise him."

"It is well, Sir Eustace Lynwood," said Edward, coldly, and with a
movement of his head, as if to dismiss him from his presence; "and
you, boy, come hither," he added as Arthur, seeing his uncle rise
and retreat a few steps, was following his example.  "I loved your
father well," he said, laying his hand on the boy's bright wavy hair,
"and you shall find in me a steady friend as long as you prove
yourself not unworthy of the name you bear."

In spite of the awe with which Arthur felt his head pressed by
that royal hand, in spite of his reverence for the hero and the
Prince, he raised his eyes and looked upon the face of the Prince
with an earnest, pleading, almost upbraiding gaze, as if, child as
he was, he deprecated the favour, which so evidently marked the
slight shown to his uncle.  But the Prince did not heed him, and
rising from his chair, said, "Thine arm, Clarenham.  Let us to the
Princess, and present her new page.  Follow me, boy."

With a wistful look at his uncle, standing alone on the step of
the dais, Arthur reluctantly followed the Prince as, leaning on
Clarenham's arm, he left the hall, and, crossing a gallery, entered
a large apartment.  At one end was a canopy embroidered with the
arms and badges of the heir of England, and beneath it were two
chairs of state, one of which was occupied by Joan Plantagenet,
Princess of Wales, once the Fair Maid of Kent, and though now long
past her youth, still showing traces of beauty befitting the lady
for whom her royal cousin had displayed such love and constancy.

As her husband entered, she rose, and looking anxiously at him, while
she came forward to meet him, inquired whether he felt fatigued.  "No,
my fair dame," replied the Prince, "I came but to present you your new
page; the young cousin, respecting whose safety my Lord de Clarenham
hath been so much in anxiety."

"Then it is his uncle who hath brought him?" asked Joan.

"Yes," replied Edward, "he himself brought him to the hall, and even
had the presumption to claim the protection for him that I pledged to
his father, when I deemed far otherwise of this young Eustace."

"What account does he give of the length of time that he has spent
on the road?" asked the Princess.

"Ay, there is the strangest part of the tale," said Fulk Clarenham,
with a sneer, "since he left the poor simple men at Lynwood
believing that he was coming at full speed to seek my Lord the
Prince's protection for the child, a convenient excuse for eluding
the inquiries of justice into his brawls at the funeral, as well
as for the rents which he carried off with him; but somewhat
inconsistent when it is not for five months that he makes his
appearance at Bordeaux, and then in the society of a band of
_routiers_."

"It shall be inquired into," said the Prince.

"Nay, nay, my Lord," said Fulk, "may I pray you of your royal goodness
to press the matter no further.  He is still young, and it were a pity
to cast dishonour on a name which has hitherto been honourable.  Since
my young cousin is safe, I would desire no more, save to guard him
from his future machinations.  For his brother's sake, my Lord, I
would plead with you."

"Little did I think such things of him," said the Prince, "when I
laid knighthood on his shoulder in the battle-field of Navaretta;
yet I remember even then old Chandos chid me for over-hastiness.
Poor old Chandos, he has a rough tongue, but a true heart!"

"And, under favour, I would say," answered Clarenham, "that it
might have been those early-won honours that turned the head of
such a mere youth, so entirely without guidance, or rather, with
the guidance of that dissolute Squire, who, I grieve to observe,
still haunts his footsteps.  Knighthood, with nought to maintain
it, is, in truth, a snare."

"Well, I am weary of the subject," said the Prince, leaning back in
his chair.  "The boy is safe, and, as you say, Fulk, that is all
that is of importance.  Call hither the troubadour that was in the
hall at noon.  I would have your opinion of his lay," he added,
turning to his wife.

The indignation may be imagined with which Arthur listened to this
conversation, as he stood on the spot to which Edward had signed to
him to advance, when he presented him to the Princess.  He longed
ardently to break in with an angry refutation of the slanders cast
on his uncle, but he was too well trained in the rules of chivalry,
to say nothing of the awful respect with which he regarded the
Prince, to attempt to utter a word, and he could only edge himself
as far away as was possible from Clarenham, and cast at him glances
of angry reproach.

His uneasy movements were interpreted as signs of fatigue and
impatience of restraint by one of the ladies, who was sitting at no
great distance, a very beautiful and graceful maiden, the Lady Maude
Holland, daughter to the Princess of Wales, by her first marriage;
and she kindly held out her hand to him, saying, "Come hither, my
pretty page.  You have not learnt to stand stiff and straight, like
one of the supporters of a coat-of-arms.  Come hither, and let me
lead you to company better suited to your years."

Arthur came willingly, as there was no more to hear about his uncle;
and besides, it was away from the hateful Clarenham.  She led him
across the hall to a tall arched doorway, opening upon a wide and
beautiful garden, filled with the plants and shrubs of the south of
France, and sloping gently down to the broad expanse of the blue
waves of the Garonne.  She looked round on all sides, and seeing no
one, made a few steps forward on the greensward, then called aloud,
"Thomas!" no answer, "Edward!  Harry of Lancaster!" but still her
clear silvery voice was unheeded, until a servant came from some
other part of the building, and, bowing, awaited her orders.  "Where
are Lord Edward and the rest?" she asked.

"Gone forth," the servant believed, "to ride on the open space near
St. Ursula's Convent."

"None left at home?"

"None, noble Lady."

"None," repeated Lady Maude, "save the little Lord Richard, whose
baby company your pageship would hardly esteem.  You must try to
endure the quietness of the lady's chamber, unless you would wish
to be at once introduced to the grave master of the Damoiseaux."

At this moment Arthur's eye fell upon a lady who had just emerged
from a long shady alley, up which she had been slowly walking, and
the bright look of recognition which lighted up his face, was so
different from the shy and constrained expression he had hitherto
worn, that Lady Maude remarked it, and following his gaze, said,
"Lady Agnes de Clarenham?  Ah yes, she is of kin to you.  Let us
go meet her."  Then, as they approached, she said, "Here, Agnes, I
have brought you a young cousin of yours, whom the Prince has just
conducted into my mother's chamber, where he bore so rueful a
countenance that I grew pitiful enough to come forth on a bootless
errand after his fellow Damoiseaux, who, it seems, are all out riding.
So I shall even leave him to you, for there is a troubadour in the
hall, whose lay I greatly long to hear."

Away tripped Lady Maude, well pleased to be free from the burthen her
good-nature had imposed on her.

"Arthur," exclaimed Agnes, "what joy to see you!  Is your uncle here?"

"Yes," said Arthur, "but oh, Cousin Agnes! if you had been by to hear
the foul slanders which Sir Fulk has been telling the Prince--oh,
Agnes! you would disown him for your brother."

"Arthur," said Agnes, with a voice almost of anguish, "how could he
--why did he tarry so long on the road?"

"How could we come on when the Duke of Brittany himself said it was
certain death or captivity?  We were forced to wait for an escort.
And now, Agnes, think of your brother saying that Uncle Eustace
carried off the rents of Lynwood, when every man in the Castle
could swear it was only the money Father Cyril had in keeping for
his inheritance."

"Alas!" said Agnes.

"And the Prince will believe it--the Prince looks coldly on him
already, and my uncle loves the Prince like his own life.  Oh, he
will be ready to die with grief!  Agnes!  Agnes! what is to be
done?  But you don't believe it!" he proceeded, seeing that she
was weeping bitterly.  "You do not believe it--you promised you
never would!  Oh say you do not believe it!"

"I do not, Arthur; I never believed half they said of him; but oh,
that long delay was a sore trial to my confidence, and cruelly
confirmed their tales."

"And think of Fulk, too, hindering the Prince from inquiring, because
he says he would spare my uncle for my father's sake, when the truth
is, he only fears that the blackness of his own designs should be
seen!  And Gaston, too, he slandered.  Oh, Agnes! Agnes! that there
should be such wickedness, and we able to do nought!"

"Nought but weep and pray!" said Agnes.  "And yet I can bear it
better now that you are here.  Your presence refutes the worst
accusation, and removes a heavy weight from my mind."

"You distrust him too!  I cannot love you if you do."

"Never, never!  I only feared some evil had befallen you, and
grieved to see the use made of your absence.  Your coming should
make my heart light again."

"Shall I often see you, Cousin Agnes? for there is none else in this
wide Castle that I shall care for."

"Oh yes, Arthur, there are full twenty pages little older than
yourself--Lord Thomas Holland, the Prince's stepson, brother to
the lady that led you to me; little Piers de Greilly, nephew to
the Captal de Buch; young Lord Henry of Lancaster; and the little
Prince Edward himself.  You will have no lack of merry playmates."

"Ah, but to whom can I talk of my blessed mother and of Uncle Eustace,
and of Lynwood Keep, and poor old Blanc Etoile, that I promised Ralph
I would bear in mind?"

"Well, Arthur," said Agnes, cheerfully, "it is the pages' duty to wait
on the ladies in hall and bower, and the ladies' office to teach them
all courtly manners, and hear them read and say the Credo and Ave.
You shall be my own especial page and servant.  Is it agreed?"

"Oh yes," said the boy.  "I wonder if the master of the Damoiseaux
is as strict as that lady said, and I wonder when I shall see Uncle
Eustace again."






CHAPTER XI



If Arthur Lynwood felt desolate when he left his uncle's side, it
was not otherwise with Sir Eustace as he lost sight of the child,
who had so long been his charge, and who repaid his anxiety with
such confiding affection.  The coveted fame, favour, and distinction
seemed likewise to have deserted him.  The Prince's coldness hung
heavily on him, and as he cast his eyes along the ranks of familiar
faces, not one friendly look cheered him.  His greetings were returned
with coldness, and a grave haughty courtesy was the sole welcome.
Chafed and mortified, he made a sign to Gaston, and they were soon
in the street once more.

"Coward clown!" burst forth Gaston at once.  "Would that I could
send all his grinning teeth down the false throat of him!"

"Whose?  What mean you?"

"Whose but that sulky recreant, Ashton?  He has done well to obtain
knighthood, or I would beat him within an inch of his life with my
halbert, and if he dared challenge me, slay him as I would a carrion
crown!  He a Knight!  Thanks to his acres and to Lord Pembroke!"

"Patience, patience, Gaston--I have not yet heard of what he
accuses me."

"No! he has learnt policy--he saith it not openly!  He would deny
it, as did his Esquire when I taxed him with it!  Would that you
could not tell a letter!  Sir Eustace, of your favour let me burn
every one of your vile books."

"My innocent friends!  Nay, nay, Gaston--they are too knightly to
merit such measure.  Then it is the old accusation of witchcraft,
I suppose.  So I was in league with the Castilian witch and her
cats, was I?"

"Ay; and her broom-stick or her cats wafted you to Lynwood, where
you suddenly stood in the midst of the mourners, borne into the
hall on a howling blast!  How I got there, I am sorry to say, the
craven declared not, lest I should give him the lie at once!"

"But surely, such a tale is too absurd and vulgar to deceive our
noble Prince."

"Oh, there is another version for his ears.  This is only for the
lower sort, who might not have thought the worse of you for
kidnapping your nephew, vowing his mother should remain unburied
till he was in your hands, and carrying off all his rents."

"That is Clarenham's slander."

"Yes."

"And credited by the Prince?  Oh! little did I think the hand which
laid knighthood on my shoulder should repent the boon that it gave!"
exclaimed Eustace, with a burst of sorrow rather than anger.

"Do you not challenge the traitor at once?"

"I trow not, unless he speaks the charge to my face.  Father Cyril
declared that any outbreak on my part would damage our cause in the
eyes of the Chancellor; we must bide our time.  Since Arthur is
safe, I will bear my own burden.  I am guiltless in this matter,
and I trust that the blessing of Heaven on my deeds shall restore
a name, obscured, but not tarnished."

The resolution to forbear was tested, for time passed on without
vindicating him.  With such art had the toils of his enemies been
spread, that no opening was left him for demanding an explanation.
The calumnies could only be brought home to the lowest retainers of
Clarenham and Ashton, and the only result of the zealous refutation
by the followers of Sir Eustace was a brawl between John Ingram and
a yeoman of Clarenham's, ending in their spending a week in the
custody of the Provost Marshal.

Had there been any tournament or like sport at Bordeaux, Eustace
could have asserted his place, and challenged the attention of
the court; but the state of the Prince's health prevented such
spectacles; nor had he any opportunity of acquiring honour by his
deeds in arms.  No army took the field on either side, and the war
was chiefly carried on by expeditions for the siege or relief of
frontier castles; and here his unusual rank as Knight Banneret
stood in his way, since it was contrary to etiquette for him to put
himself under the command of a Knight Bachelor.  He was condemned
therefore to a weary life of inaction, the more galling, because
his poverty made it necessary to seek maintenance as formerly at
the Prince's table, where he was daily reminded, by the altered
demeanour of his acquaintance, of the unjust suspicions beneath
which he laboured.  He had hoped that a dismissal from his post
in the Prince's band would give him the much-desired opportunity
of claiming a hearing, but he was permitted to receive his pay and
allowance as usual, and seemed completely overlooked.  It was
well that Gaston's gay temper could not easily be saddened by
their circumstances, and his high spirits and constant attachment
often cheered his Knight in their lonely evenings.  Eustace had
more than once striven to persuade him to forsake his failing
fortunes; but to this the faithful Squire would never consent,
vowing that he was as deeply implicated in all their accusations
as Sir Eustace himself; and who would wish to engage a fellow-
servant of the black cats!  There were two others whom Eustace
would fain believe still confided in his truth and honour, his
nephew Arthur, and Lady Agnes de Clarenham; but he never saw them,
and often his heart sank at the thought of the impression that the
universal belief might make on the minds of both.  And to add to
his depression, a rumour prevailed throughout Bordeaux that the
Baron of Clarenham had promised his sister's hand to Sir Leonard
Ashton.

Nearly a year had passed since Eustace had left England, and his
situation continued unchanged.  Perhaps the Prince regarded him
with additional displeasure, since news had arrived that Sir
Richard Ferrars had made application to the Duke of Lancaster to
interest the King in the cause of the guardianship; for there was,
at this time, a strong jealousy, in the mind of the Prince, of the
mighty power and influence of John of Gaunt, which he already feared
might be used to the disadvantage of his young sons.

The cause was, at length, decided, and a letter from good Father
Cyril conveyed to Eustace the intelligence that the Chancellor,
William of Wykeham, Bishop of Winchester, having given due weight
to Sir Reginald's dying words and Lady Lynwood's testament, had
pronounced Sir Eustace Lynwood the sole guardian of the person and
estate of his nephew, and authorized all the arrangements he had
made on his departure.

Affairs altogether began to wear a brighter aspect.  The first
indignation against Sir Eustace had subsided, and he was treated,
in general, with indifference rather than marked scorn.  The
gallant old Chandos was again on better terms with the Prince,
and, coming to Bordeaux, made two or three expeditions, in which
Eustace volunteered to join, and gained some favourable, though
slight, notice from the old Knight.  Fulk Clarenham, too, having
received from the Prince the government of Perigord, was seldom
at court, and no active enemy appeared to be at work against him.

Agnes de Clarenham, always retiring and pensive, and seldom sought
out by those who admired gayer damsels, was sitting apart in the
embrasure of a window, whence, through an opening in the trees of
the garden, she could catch a distant glimpse of the blue waters
of the river where it joined the sea, which separated her from her
native land, and from her who had ever been as a mother to her.  She
was so lost in thought, that she scarce heard a step approaching,
till the unwelcome sound of "Fair greeting to you, Lady Agnes"
caused her to look up and behold the still more unwelcome form of
Sir Leonard Ashton.  To escape from him was the first idea, for his
clownish manners, always unpleasant to her, had become doubly so,
since he had presumed upon her brother's favour to offer to her
addresses from which she saw no escape; and with a brief reply of
"Thanks for your courtesy, Sir Knight," she was about to rise and
mingle with the rest of the party, when he proceeded, bluntly,
"Lady Agnes, will you do me a favour?"

"I know of no favour in my power," said she.

"Nay," he said, "it is easily done, and it is as much to your brother
as to myself.  It is a letter which, methinks, Fulk would not have
read out of the family, of which I may call myself one," and he gave
a sort of smirk at Agnes;--"but he writes so crabbedly, that I, for
one, cannot read two lines,--and I would not willingly give it to a
clerk, who might be less secret.  So methought, as 'twas the Baron's
affair, I would even bring it here, and profit by your Convent-
breeding, Lady Agnes."

Agnes took the letter, and began to read:--


  "For the hand of the Right Noble and Worshipful Knight, Sir
  Leonard Ashton, at the court of my Lord the Prince of Wales,
  these:--

  "Fair Sir, and brother-in-arms--I hereby do you to wit, that the
  affair whereof we spoke goes well.  Both my Lord of Pembroke,
  and Sir John Chandos, readily undertook to move the Prince to
  grant the Banneret you wot of the government of the Castle, and
  as he hath never forgotten the love he once bore to his brother,
  he will the more easily be persuaded.  Of the garrison we are
  sure, and all that is now needful is, that the one-eyed Squire,
  whereof you spoke to me, should receive warning before he
  arrives at the Castle.

  "Tell him to choose his time, and manage matters so that there
  may be no putting to ransom.  He will understand my meaning.
             "Greeting you well, therefore,
                         "Fulk, Baron of Clarenham."


"What means this?" exclaimed Agnes, as a tissue of treachery opened
before her eyes.

"Ay, that you may say," said Leonard, his slow brain only fixed upon
Fulk's involved sentences, and utterly unconscious of the horror
expressed in her tone.  "How is a man to understand what he would
have me to do?  Send to Le Borgne Basque at Chateau Norbelle?  Is
that it?  Read it to me once again, Lady, for the love of the Saints.
What am I to tell Le Borgne Basque?  No putting to ransom, doth he
say?  He might be secure enough for that matter--Eustace Lynwood is
little like to ransom himself."

"But what mean you?" said Agnes, eagerly hoping that she had done
her brother injustice in her first horrible thought.  "Sir Eustace
Lynwood, if you spake of him, is no prisoner, but is here at Bordeaux."

"He shall not long be so," said Leonard.  "Heard you not this very
noon that the Prince bestows on him the government of Chateau Norbelle
on the marches of Gascony?  Well, that is the matter treated of in
this letter.  Let me see, let me see, how was it to be?  Yes, that
is it!  It is Le Borgne Basque who is Seneschal.  Ay, true, that I
know,--and 'twas he who was to admit Clisson's men."

"Admit Clisson's men!"

"Ay--'tis one of those Castles built by the old Paladin, Renaud de
Montauban, that Eustace used to talk about.  I ween he did not
know of this trick that will be played on himself--and all of them
have, they say, certain secret passages leading through the vaults
into the Castle.  Le Borgne Basque knows them all, for he has served
much in those parts, and Fulk placed him as Seneschal for the very
purpose."

"For the purpose of admitting Clisson's men?  Do I understand you
right, Sir Knight, or do my ears play me false?"

"Yes, I speak right.  Do you not see, Lady Agnes, it is the only way
to free your house of this stumbling-block--this beggarly upstart
Eustace--who, as long as he lives, will never acknowledge Fulk's
rights, and would bring up his nephew to the same pride."

"And is it possible, Sir Leonard, that brother of mine, and belted
Knight, should devise so foul a scheme of treachery!  Oh, unsay it
again!  Let me believe it was my own folly that conjured up so
monstrous a thought!"

"Ay, that is the way with women," said Leonard; "they never look at
the sense of the matter.  Why, this Eustace, what terms should be
kept with him, who has dealings with the Evil One? and--"

"I will neither hear a noble Knight maligned, nor suffer him to be
betrayed," interrupted Agnes.  "I have listened to you too long,
Sir Leonard Ashton, and will stain my ears no longer.  I thank you,
however, for having given me such warning as to enable me to traverse
them."

"What will you do?" asked Leonard, with a look of impotent anger.

"Appeal instantly to the Prince.  Tell him the use that is made of
his Castles, and the falsehoods told him of his most true-hearted
Knight!" and Agnes, with glancing eyes, was already rising for the
purpose, forgetting, in her eager indignation, all that must follow,
when Leonard, muttering "What madness possessed me to tell her!"
stood full before her, saying, gloomily, "Do so, Lady, if you
choose to ruin your brother!"  The timid girl stood appalled, as
the horrible consequences of such an accusation arose before her.

That same day Eustace was summoned to the Prince's presence.

"Sir Eustace Lynwood," said Edward, gravely, "I hear you have served
the King well beneath the banner of Sir John Chandos.  Your friends
have wrought with me to give you occasion to prove yourself worthy
of your spurs, and I have determined to confer on you the government
of my Chateau of Norbelle, on the frontier of Gascony, trusting to
find you a true and faithful governor and Castellane."

"I trust, my Lord, that you have never had occasion to deem less
honourably of me," said Eustace; and his clear open eye and brow
courted rather than shunned the keen look of scrutiny that the
Prince fixed upon him.  His heart leapt at the hope that the time
for inquiry was come, but the Prince in another moment sank his
eyes again, with more, however, of the weary impatience of illness
than of actual displeasure, and merely replied, "Kneel down, then,
Sir Knight, and take the oaths of fidelity."

Eustace obeyed, hardly able to suppress a sigh at the disappointment
of his hopes.

"You will receive the necessary orders and supplies from Sir John
Chandos, and from the Treasurer," said Edward, in a tone that
intimated the conclusion of the conference; and Eustace quitted
his presence, scarce knowing whether to be rejoiced or dissatisfied.

The former, Gaston certainly was.  "I have often been heartily weary
of garrison duty," said he, "but never can I be more weary of aught,
than of being looked upon askance by half the men I meet.  And we
may sometimes hear the lark sing too, as well as the mouse squeak,
Sir Eustace.  I know every pass of my native county, and the herds
of Languedoc shall pay toll to us."

Sir John Chandos, as Constable of Aquitaine, gave him the requisite
orders and information.  The fortifications, he said, were in good
condition, and the garrison already numerous; but a sum of money
was allotted to him in order to increase their numbers as much as
he should deem advisable, since it was not improbable that he might
have to sustain a siege, as Oliver de Clisson was threatening that
part of the frontier.  Four days were allowed for his preparations,
after which he was to depart for his government.

Eustace was well pleased with all that he heard, and returned to
his lodging, where, in the evening twilight, he was deeply engaged
in consultation with Gaston, on the number of followers to be raised,
when a light step was heard hastily approaching, and Arthur, darting
into the room, flung himself on his neck, exclaiming, "Uncle! uncle!
go not to this Castle!"

"Arthur, what brings you here?  What means this?  No foolish frolic,
no escape from punishment, I trust?" said Eustace, holding him at
some little distance, and fixing his eyes on him intently.

"No, uncle, no!  On the word of a true Knight's son," said the boy,
stammering, in his eagerness, "believe me, trust me, dear uncle--
and go not to this fearful Castle.  It is a trap--a snare laid to
be your death, by the foulest treachery!"

"Silence, Arthur!" said the Knight, sternly.  "Know you not what
treason you speak?  Some trick has been played on your simplicity,
and yet you--child as you are--should as soon think shame of your
own father as of the Prince, the very soul of honour."

"Oh, it is not the Prince: he knows nought of it; it is those double
traitors, the Baron of Clarenham and Sir Leonard Ashton, who have
worked upon him and deceived him."

"Oh, ho!" said Gaston.  "The story now begins to wear some semblance
of probability."

Arthur turned, looking perplexed.  "Master d'Aubricour," said he,
"I forgot that you were here.  This is a secret which should have
been for my uncle's ears alone."

"Is it so?" said Gaston; "then I will leave the room, if it please
you and the Knight--though methought I was scarce small enough to
be so easily overlooked; and having heard the half--"

"You had best hear the whole," said Arthur.  "Uncle Eustace, what
think you?"

"I know not what to think, Arthur.  You must be your own judge."

Arthur's young brow wore a look of deep thought; at last he said,
"Do not go then, Gaston.  If I have done wrong, I must bear the
blame, and, be it as it may, my uncle needs must tell you all that
I may tell him."

"Let us hear, then," said Eustace.

"Well, then," said Arthur, who had by this time collected himself,
"you must know that this Chateau Norbelle is one of those built
by that famous Paladin, the chief of freebooters, Sir Renaud de
Montauban, of whom you have told me so many tales.  Now all of
these have secret passages in the vaults communicating with the
outer country."

"The boy is right," said Gaston; "I have seen one of them in the
Castle of Montauban itself."

"Then it seems," proceeded Arthur, "that this Castle hath hitherto
been in the keeping of a certain one-eyed Seneschal, a great friend
and comrade of Sir Leonard Ashton--"

"Le Borgne Basque!" exclaimed both Knight and Squire, looking at
each other in amaze.

"True, true," said Arthur.  "Now you believe me.  Well, the enemy
being in the neighbourhood, it was thought right to increase the
garrison, and place it under the command of a Knight, and these
cowardly traitors have wrought with my Lord of Pembroke and Sir
John Chandos to induce the Prince to give you this post--it being
their intention that this wicked Seneschal and his equally wicked
garrison should admit Sir Oliver de Clisson, the butcher of Bretagne
himself, through the secret passage.  And, uncle," said the boy,
pressing Eustace's hand, while tears of indignation sprang to his
eyes, "the letter expressly said there was to be no putting to
ransom.  Oh, Uncle Eustace, go not to this Castle!"

"And how came you by this knowledge?" asked the Knight.

"That I may never tell," said Arthur.

"By no means which might not beseem the son of a brave man?" said
Eustace.

"Mistrust me not so foully," said the boy.  "I know it from a sure
hand, and there is not dishonour, save on the part of those villain
traitors.  Oh, promise me, fair uncle, not to put yourself in their
hands!"

"Arthur, I have taken the oaths to the Prince as Castellane.  I
cannot go back from my duty, nor give up its defence for any cause
whatsoever."

"Alas! alas!"

"There would be only one way of avoiding it," said Eustace, "and you
must yourself say, Arthur, whether that is open to me.  To go to the
Prince, and tell him openly what use is made of his Castles, and
impeach the villains of their treachery."

"That cannot be," said Arthur, shaking his head sadly--"it is
contrary to the pledge I gave for you and for myself.  But go not,
go not, uncle.  Remember, uncle, if you will not take thought for
yourself, that you are all that is left me--all that stands between
me and that wicked Clarenham.--Gaston, persuade him."

"Gaston would never persuade me to disgrace my spurs for the sake
of danger," replied Eustace.  "Have you no better learnt the laws
of chivalry in the Prince's household, Arthur?  Besides, remember
old Ralph's proverb, 'Fore-warned is fore-armed.'  Think you not
that Gaston, and honest Ingram, and I may not be a match for a
dozen cowardly traitors?  Besides which, see here the gold allotted
me to raise more men, with which I will obtain some honest hearts
for my defence--and it will go hard with me if I cannot find Sir
Renaud's secret door."

"Then, if you will go, uncle, take, take me with you--I could, at
least, watch the door; and I know how to hit a mark with a cross-
bow as well as Lord Harry of Lancaster himself."

"Take you, Master Arthur?  What! steal away the Prince's page that
I have been at such pains to bring hither, and carry him to a nest
of traitors!  Why, it would be the very way to justify Clarenham's
own falsehoods."

"And of the blackest are they!" said Arthur.  "Think, uncle, of my
standing by to hear him breathing his poison to the Prince, and the
preventing him from searching to find out the truth, by pretending a
regard for my father's name, and your character.  Oh that our noble
Prince should be deluded by such a recreant, and think scorn of such
a Knight as you!"

"I trust yet to prove to him that it is a delusion," said Eustace.
"Many a Knight at twenty-two has yet to make his name and fame.
Mine, thanks to Du Guesclin and the Prince himself, is already made,
and though clouded for a time, with the grace of our Lady and of St.
Eustace, I will yet clear it; so, Arthur, be not downcast for me,
but think what Father Cyril hath taught concerning evil report and
good report.  But tell me, how came you hither?"

"She--that is, the person that warned me--let me down from the window
upon the head of the great gurgoyle, and from thence I scrambled down
by the vines on the wall, ran through the court without being seen by
the Squires and grooms, and found my way to the bridge, where happily
I met John Ingram, who brought me hither."

"She?" repeated Gaston, with a sly look in his black eyes.

"I have said too much," said Arthur, colouring deeply; "I pray you to
forget."

"Forget!" proceeded the Squire, "that is sooner said than done.  We
shall rack our brains to guess what lady can--"

"Hush, Gaston," said Eustace, as his nephew looked at him imploringly,
"tempt not the boy.  And you, Arthur, must return to the palace
immediately."

"Oh, uncle!" said the boy, "may I not stay with you this one night?
It is eight weary months since I have ever seen you, save by peering
down through the tall balusters of the Princess's balcony, when the
Knights were going to dinner in the hall, and I hoped you would keep
me with you at least one night.  See how late and dark it is--the
Castle gates will be closed by this time."

"It does indeed rejoice my heart to have you beside me, fair nephew,"
said Eustace, "and yet I know not how to favour such an escape as this,
even for such a cause."

"I never broke out of bounds before," said Arthur, "and never will,
though Lord Harry and Lord Thomas Holland have more than once asked
me to join them."

"Then," said the Knight, "since it is, as you say, too late to rouse
the palace, I will take you back in my hand to-morrow morn, see the
master of the Damoiseaux, and pray him to excuse you for coming to
see me ere my departure."

"Yes, that will be all well," said Arthur; "I could, to be sure,
find the corner where Lord Harry has loosened the stones, and get
in by the pages' window, ere old Master Michael is awake in the
morn; but I think such doings are more like those of a fox than
of a brave boy, and though I should be well punished, I will walk
in at the door, and hold up my head boldly."

"Shall you be punished then?" said Gaston.  "Is your old master of
the Damoiseaux very severe?"

"He has not been so hitherto with me," said Arthur: "he scolds me for
little, save what you too are displeased with, Master d'Aubricour,
because I cannot bring my mouth to speak your language in your own
fashion.  It is Lord Harry that chiefly falls under his displeasure.
But punished now I shall assuredly be, unless Uncle Eustace can work
wonders."

"I will see what may be done, Arthur," said Eustace.  "And now, have
you supped?"

The evening passed off very happily to the little page, who, quite
reassured by his uncle's consolations, only thought of the delight
of being with one who seemed to supply to him the place at once of
an elder brother and of a father.

Early the next morning, Eustace walked with him to the palace.  Just
before he reached it, he made this inquiry, "Arthur, do you often see
the Lady Agnes de Clarenham?"

"Oh, yes, I am with her almost every afternoon.  She hears me read,
she helps me with my French words, and teaches me courtly manners.
I am her own page and servant--but, here we are.  This is the door
that leads to the room of Master Michael de Sancy, the master of
the Damoiseaux."






CHAPTER XII



The next few days were spent in taking precautions against the
danger intimated by the mysterious message.  Gaston gathered
together a few of the ancient Lances of Lynwood, who were glad to
enlist under the blue crosslet, and these, with some men-at-arms,
who had recently come to Bordeaux to seek employment, formed a body
with whom Eustace trusted to be able to keep the disaffected in
check.  Through vineyards and over gently swelling hills did their
course lead them, till, on the evening of the second day's journey,
the view to the south was shut in by more lofty and bolder peaks,
rising gradually towards the Pyrenees, and on the summit of a rock
overhanging a small rapid stream appeared the tall and massive
towers of a Castle, surmounted by the broad red cross of St. George,
and which their guide pronounced to be the Chateau Norbelle.

"A noble eyrie!" said Eustace, looking up and measuring it with his
eye.  "Too noble to be sacrificed to the snaring of one poor Knight."

"Shame that such a knightly building should serve for such a nest
of traitors!" said Gaston.  "Saving treachery, a dozen boys could
keep it against a royal host, provided they had half the spirit of
your little nephew."

"Let us summon the said traitors," said Eustace, blowing a blast on
his bugle.  The gates were thrown wide open, the drawbridge lowered,
and beneath the portcullis stood the Seneschal, his bunch of keys at
his girdle.  Both Eustace and Gaston cast searching glances upon him,
and his aspect made them for a moment doubt the truth of the warning.
A patch covered the lost eye, his moustache was shaved, his hair
appeared many shades lighter, as well as his beard, which had been
carefully trimmed, and altogether the obsequious Seneschal presented
a strong contrast to the dissolute reckless man-at-arms.  The Knight
debated with himself, whether to let him perceive that he was
recognized; and deciding to watch his conduct, he asked by what
name to address him.

"Thibault Sanchez," replied Le Borgne Basque, giving his real name,
which he might safely do, as it was not known to above two men in the
whole Duchy of Aquitaine.  "Thibault Sanchez, so please you, noble
Sir, a poor Squire from the mountains, who hath seen some few battles
and combats in his day, but never one equal to the fight of Najara,
where your deeds of prowess--"

"My deeds of prowess, Sir Seneschal, had better rest in silence until
our horses have been disposed of, and I have made the rounds of the
Castle before the light fails us."

"So late, Sir Knight! and after a long and weary journey?  Surely
you will drink a cup of wine, and take a night's rest first, relying
on me, who, though I be a plain man, trust I understand somewhat of
the duties of mine office."

"I sleep not until I have learnt what is committed to my charge,"
replied the Knight.  "Lead the way, Master Sanchez."

"Ah! there is what it is to have a Knight of fame," cried Le Borgne
Basque.  "What vigilance! what earnestness!  Ah, this will be, as I
told my comrades even now, the very school of chivalry, the pride of
the country."

They had by this time crossed the narrow court, and passing beneath
a second portcullised door defended on either side by high battlement
walls, nearly double as thick as the steps themselves were wide.  At
the head was an arched door, heavily studded with nails, and opening
into the Castle hall, a gloomy, vaulted room, its loop-hole windows,
in their mighty depth of wall, affording little light.  A large wood
fire was burning in the hearth, and its flame cast a bright red light
on some suits of armour that were hung at one end of the hall, as
well as on some benches, and a long table in the midst, where were
placed some trenchers, drinking horns, and a flask or two of wine.

"A drop of wine, noble Knight," said the Seneschal.  "Take a cup to
recruit you after your journey, and wash the dust from your throat."

A long ride in full armour beneath the sun of Gascony made this no
unacceptable proposal, but the probability that the wine might be
drugged had been contemplated by Eustace, who had not only resolved
to abstain himself, but had exacted the same promise from d'Aubricour,
sorely against his will.

"We will spare your flasks till a time of need," said Eustace, only
accepting the basin of fair water presented to him to lave his hands.
"And now to the walls," he added, after he had filled a cup with water
from the pitcher and refreshed himself with it.  Gaston followed his
example, not without a wistful look at the wine, and Sanchez was
obliged to lead the way up a long flight of spiral steps to two other
vaulted apartments, one over the other--the lower destined for the
sleeping chamber of the Knight and his Squire, the higher for such
of the men-at-arms as could not find accommodation in the hall, or
in the offices below.  Above this they came out on the lead-covered
roof, surrounded with a high crenellated stone parapet, where two or
three warders were stationed.  Still higher rose one small octagonal
watch-tower, on the summit of which was planted a spear bearing St.
George's pennon, and by its side Sir Eustace now placed his own.

This done, Eustace could not help standing for a few moments to
look forth upon the glorious expanse of country beneath him--the
rich fields and fair vineyards spreading far away to the west and
north, with towns and villages here and there rising among them;
while far away to the east, among higher hills, lay the French
town of Carcassonne, a white mass, just discernible by the light
of the setting sun; and the south was bounded by the peaks of the
Pyrenees, amongst which lay all Eustace's brightest recollections
of novelty, adventure, and hopes of glory.

Descending the stairs once more, after traversing the hall, they
found themselves in the kitchen, where a large supper was preparing.
Here, too, was the buttery, some other small chambers fit for
storehouses, and some stalls for horses, all protected by the great
bartizan at the foot of the stairs, which was capable of being
defended even after the outer court was won.  By the time the new-
comers had made themselves acquainted with these localities, the
evening was fast closing in, and Sanchez pronounced that the Knight's
survey was concluded in good time for supper.

"I have not yet seen the vaults," said Eustace.

"The vaults, Sir Knight! what would you see there, save a few rusted
chains, and some whitened bones, that have been there ever since the
days of the Count de Montfort and the heretic Albigenses!  They say
that their accursed spirits haunt the place."

"I have heard," returned Sir Eustace, "that these Castles of Gascony
are said to have secret passages communicating with their vaults,
and I would willingly satisfy my own eyes that we are exposed to
no such peril here."

"Nay, not a man in the Castle will enter those vaults after sunset,
Sir Knight.  The Albigenses, Sir Eustace!"

"I will take the risk alone," said Eustace.  "Hand me a torch there!"

Gaston took another, and Thibault Sanchez, seeing them so resolute,
chose to be of the party.  The torches shed their red glare over
the stone arches on which the Castle rested, and there was a chill
damp air and earthy smell, which made both Knight and Squire shudder
and start.  No sooner had they entered than Thibault, trembling
exclaimed, in a tone of horror, "There! there!  O blessed Lady,
protect us!"

"Where?" asked Eustace, scarce able to defend himself from an
impression of terror.

"'Tis gone--yet methought I saw it again.--There! look yonder, Sir
Knight--something white fluttering behind that column!"

Gaston crossed himself, and turned pale; but Eustace had settled
his nerves.  "A truce with these vain follies, Master Seneschal,"
said he, sternly.  "Those who know Le Borgne Basque cannot believe
his fears, either of saints or demons, to be other than assumed."

No ghost could have startled the Seneschal of the Chateau Norbelle
as much as this sobriquet.  He fell back, and subsided into complete
silence, as he meditated whether it were best to confess the plot,
and throw himself upon Sir Eustace's mercy, or whether he could hope
that this was merely a chance recognition.  He inclined to the latter
belief when he observed that the Knight was at fault respecting the
secret passage, searching in vain through every part of the vault,
and twice passing over the very spot.  The third time, however, it so
chanced that his spur rung against something of metal, and he called
for Gaston to hold his torch lower.  The light fell not only upon an
iron ring, but upon a guard which evidently covered a key-hole.

Sanchez, after in vain professing great amazement, and perfect
ignorance of any such entrance, gave up his bunch of keys, protesting
that there was nothing there which could unlock the mysterious door:
but the Knight had another method.  "Look you, Master Sanchez," said
he, "it may be, as you say, that this door hath not been unclosed for
hundreds of years, notwithstanding I see traces in the dust as if it
had been raised of late.  I shall, however, sleep more securely if
convinced that it is an impossibility to lift it.  Go, therefore,
Gaston, and call half a dozen of the men, to bring each of them the
heaviest stone they can find from that heap I saw prepared for a
mangonel in the court-yard."

"Oh, excellent!" exclaimed Gaston, "and yet, Sir Eustace--"

There he stopped, but it was evident that he was reluctant to leave
his master alone with this villain.  Eustace replied by drawing his
good sword, and giving him a fearless smile, as he planted his foot
upon the trap-door; and fixing his gaze upon Le Borgne Basque, made
him feel that this was no moment for treachery.

Gaston sped fast out of the dungeon, and, in brief space, made his
appearance at the head of the men-at-arms, some bearing torches,
others labouring under the weight of the huge stones, which, as he
rightly thought, they were far more inclined to heave at Sir Eustace's
head than to place in the spot he pointed out.  They were, however,
compelled to obey, and, with unwilling hands, built up such a pile
upon the secret door, that it could not be lifted from beneath
without gigantic strength, and a noise which would re-echo through
the Castle.  This done, Sir Eustace watched them all out of the
vault himself, closed the door, locked it, and announced to the
Seneschal his intention of relieving him for the future from the
care of the keys.  Still watching him closely, he ascended to the
hall, and gave the signal for the supper, which shortly made its
appearance.

Thibault Sanchez, who laid claim to some share of gentle blood, was
permitted to enjoy the place of honour together with Sir Eustace and
d'Aubricour--the rather that it gave them a better opportunity of
keeping their eye upon him.

There was an evident attempt, on the part of the garrison, to engage
their new comrades in a carouse in honour of their arrival, but this
was brought to an abrupt conclusion by Sir Eustace, who, in a tone
which admitted no reply, ordered the wine flasks to the buttery, and
the men, some to their posts and others to their beds.  Ingram walked
off, muttering his discontent; and great was the ill-will excited
amongst, not only the original garrison, but the new-comers from
Bordeaux, who, from their lairs of straw, lamented the day when
they took service with so severe and rigid a Knight, and compared
his discipline with that of his brother, Sir Reginald, who, strict
as he might be, never grudged a poor man-at-arms a little merriment.
"But as to this Knight, one might as well serve a Cistercian monk!"

As to Le Borgne Basque, he betook himself to the buttery; and there,
in an undertone of great terror, began to mutter to his friend and
ally, Tristan de la Fleche, "It is all over with us!  He is a wizard!
Sir Leonard Ashton was right--oaf as he was; I never believed him
before; but what, save enchantment, could have enabled him to
recognize me under this disguise, or how could he have gone straight
to yonder door?"

"Think you not that he had some warning?" asked Tristan.

"Impossible, save from Clarenham, or from Ashton himself; and, dolt
as he is, I trow he has sense enough to keep his own counsel.  He
has not forgotten the day when he saw this dainty young sprig rise
up in his golden spurs before his eyes.  I know how it is!  It is
with him as it was with the Lord of Corasse!"

"How was that, Thibault?"

"Why, you must know that Raymond de Corasse had helped himself to
the tithes of a certain Church in Catalonia, whereby the Priest who
claimed them said to him, 'Know that I will send thee a champion
that thou wilt be more afraid of than thou hast hitherto been of
me.'  Three months after, each night, in the Castle of Corasse,
began such turmoil as never was known; raps at every door, and
especially that of the Knight--as if all the goblins in fairy-land
had been let loose.  The Knight lay silent all one night; but the
next, when the rioting was renewed as loud as ever, he leapt out
of his bed, and bawled out, 'Who is it at this hour thus knocks at
my chamber door?'  He was answered, 'It is I.'  'And who sends thee
hither?' asked the Knight.  'The Clerk of Catalonia, whom thou hast
much wronged.  I will never leave thee quiet until thou hast rendered
him a just account.'  'What art thou called,' said the Knight, 'who
art so good a messenger?'  'Orthon is my name.'  But it fell out
otherwise from the Clerk's intentions, for Orthon had taken a liking
to the Knight, and promised to serve him rather than the Clerk--
engaging never to disturb the Castle--for, indeed, he had no power
to do ill to any.  Often did he come to the Knight's bed by night,
and pull the pillow from under his head--"

"What was he like?" asked Tristan.

"The Lord de Corasse could not tell; he only heard him--he never saw
aught; for Orthon only came by night, and, having wakened him, would
begin by saying, 'he was come from England, Hungary, or elsewhere,'
and telling all the news of the place."

"And what think you was he?"

"That was what our Lord, the Count de Foix, would fain have known,
when he had much marveled at the tidings that were brought him by
the Lord de Corasse, and had heard of the strange messenger who
brought them.  He entreated the Knight to desire Orthon to show
himself in his own proper form--and then, having seen, to describe
him.

"So at night, when Orthon came again, and plucked away the pillow,
the Knight asked him from whence he came?  'From Prague, in Bohemia,'
answered Orthon.  'How far is it?'--'Sixty days' journey.'  'Hast
thou returned thence in so short a time?'--'I travel as fast as the
wind, or faster.'  'What! hast thou got wings?'--'Oh, no.'  'How,
then, canst thou fly so fast?'--'That is no business of yours!'
'No,' said the Knight--'I should like exceedingly to see what form
thou hast.'--'That concerns you not,' replied Orthon; 'be satisfied
that you hear me.'  'I should love thee better had I seen thee,'
said the Knight,--whereupon Orthon promised that the first thing
he should see to-morrow, on quitting his bed, should be no other
than himself."

"Ha! then, I wager that he saw one of the black cats that played
round young Ashton's bed."

"Nay, the Knight's lady would not rise all day lest she should see
Orthon; but the Knight, leaping up in the morning, looked about,
but could see nothing unusual.  At night, when Orthon came, he
reproached him for not having shown himself, as he had promised.
'I have,' replied Orthon.  'I say No,' said the Knight.  'What!
you saw nothing when you leapt out of bed?'--'Yes,' said the Lord
de Corasse, after having considered awhile, 'I saw two straws,
which were turning and playing together on the floor.'  'That was
myself,' said Orthon.

"The Knight now desired importunately that Orthon would show himself
in his own true shape.  Orthon told him that it might lead to his
being forced to quit his service--but he persisted, and Orthon
promised to show himself when first the Knight should leave his
chamber in the morning.  Therefore, as soon as he was dressed, the
Knight went to a window overlooking the court, and there he beheld
nothing but a large lean sow, so poor, that she seemed nothing but
skin and bone, with long hanging ears, all spotted, and a thin
sharp-pointed snout.  The Lord de Corasse called to his servants
to set the dogs on the ill-favoured creature, and kill it; but, as
the kennel was opened, the sow vanished away, and was never seen
afterwards.  Then the Lord de Corasse returned pensive to his
chamber, fearing that the sow had indeed been Orthon!--and truly
Orthon never returned more to his bed-side.  Within a year, the
Knight was dead!"

"Is it true, think you, Sanchez?"

"True! why, man, I have seen the Chateau de Corasse, seven leagues
from Orthes!"

"And what think you was Orthon?"

"It is not for me to say; but, you see, there are some who stand
fair in men's eyes, who have strange means of gaining intelligence!
It will be a merit to weigh down a score of rifled Priests, if we
can but circumvent a wizard such as this!"

"But he has brought his books!  I saw that broad-faced Englishman
carry up a whole pile of them," cried Tristan, turning pale.  "With
his books he will be enough to conjure us all into apes!"

"Now or never," said Sanchez, encouragingly.

"When all is still, I will go round and waken our comrades, while
you creep forth by the hole beneath the bartizan, and warn Clisson
that the secret passage is nought, but that when he sees a light
in old Montfort's turret--"

Tristan suddenly trod on his foot, as a sign of silence, as a step
descended the stairs, and Sir Eustace stood before them.

"You appear to be agreeably employed, gentlemen," said he, glancing
at the stoup of wine which was before them; "but my orders are as
precise as Norman William's.  No lights in this Castle, save my own,
after eight o'clock.  To your beds, gentlemen, and a good night to
you!"  He was still fully armed, so that it was unsafe to attack
him.  And he saw them up the spiral stairs that led from the hall,
and watched them enter the narrow dens that served them as sleeping
rooms, where many a curse was uttered on the watchfulness of the
wizard Knight.  At the turn of midnight, Le Borgne Basque crept
forth, in some hope that there might be an opportunity of fulfilling
his designs, and earning the reward promised him both by Clarenham
and the French.  But he had not descended far before a red gleam of
torchlight was seen on the dark stairs, and, ere he could retreat,
the black head and dark eyes of Gaston appeared, glancing with
mischievous amusement, as he said, in his gay voice, "You are on
the alert, my old comrade.  You have not forgotten your former
habits when in command here.  But Sir Eustace intrusts the care
of changing the guard to none but me; so I will not trouble you
to disturb yourself another night."  And the baffled miscreant
retreated.

In this manner passed day after day, in a tacit yet perpetual war
between the Knight and the garrison.  Not a step could be taken,
scarce a word spoken, without some instant reminder that either
Sir Eustace or Gaston was on the watch.  On the borders of the
enemy's country, there was so much reason for vigilance, that the
garrison could not reasonably complain of the services required of
them; the perpetual watch, and numerous guards; the occupations
which Knight and Squire seemed never weary of devising for the
purpose of keeping them separate, and their instant prohibition
of any attempt at the riotous festivity which was their only
consolation for the want of active exercises.  They grew heartily
weary, and fiercely impatient of restraint, and though the firm,
calm, steady strictness of the Knight was far preferable to the
rude familiarity and furious passions of many a Castellane, there
were many of the men-at-arms who, though not actually engaged in
the conspiracy, were impatient of what they called his haughtiness
and rigidity.  These men were mercenaries from different parts of
France, accustomed to a lawless life, and caring little or nothing
whatever whether it were beneath the standard of King Charles or
King Edward that they acquired pay and plunder.  The Englishmen
were, of course, devoted to their King and Prince, and though at
times unruly, were completely to be depended upon.  Yet, while
owning Sir Eustace to be a brave, gallant, and kind-hearted Knight,
there were times when even they felt a shudder of dread and almost
of hatred pass over them, when tales were told of the supernatural
powers he was supposed to possess; when Leonard Ashton's adventure
with the cats was narrated, or the story of his sudden arrival at
Lynwood Keep on the night before the lady's funeral.  His own
immediate attendants might repel the charge with honest indignation,
but many a stout warrior slunk off in terror to bed from the sight
of Sir Eustace, turning the pages of one of his heavy books by the
light of the hall fire, and saw in each poor bat that flitted about
within the damp depths of the vaulted chambers the familiar spirit
which brought him exact intelligence of all that passed at Bordeaux,
at Paris, or in London.  Nay, if he only turned his eyes on the
ground, he was thought to be looking for the twisting straws.






CHAPTER XIII



There was a village at some distance from the Chateau Norbelle, the
inhabitants of which were required to furnish it with provisions.
The Castellane, by paying just prices, and preventing his men from
treating the peasants in the cruel and exacting manner to which they
were accustomed, had gained their good-will.  Prompt intelligence of
the proceedings of the French army was always brought to him, and he
was thus informed that a large treasure was on its way from Bayonne
to Carcasonne, being the subsidy promised by Enrique, King of
Castile, to his allies, Bertrand du Guesclin and Oliver de Clisson.

It became the duty of the English to intercept these supplies,
and Eustace knew that he should incur censure should he allow the
occasion to pass.  But how divide his garrison?  Which of the men-
at-arms could be relied on?  After consultation with d'Aubricour,
it was determined that he himself should remain with John Ingram
and a sufficient number of English to keep the traitors in check,
while Gaston went forth in command of the party, who were certain
to fight with a good will where spoil was the object.  They would
be absent at least two nights, since the pass of the Pyrenees, where
they intended to lie in ambush, was at a considerable distance, nor
was the time of the arrival of the convoy absolutely certain.

The expedition proved completely successful, and on the morning
of the third day the rising sun beheld Gaston d'Aubricour riding
triumphantly at the head of his little band, in the midst of which
was a long line of heavily-laden baggage mules.  The towers of
Chateau Norbelle appeared in his view, when suddenly with a cry of
amazement he perceived that the pennon of St. George and the banner
of Lynwood were both absent from the Keep.  He could scarcely believe
his eyes, but forcing his horse onward with furious impetuosity to
obtain a nearer view, he discovered that it was indeed true.

"The miscreants!" he shouted.  "Oh, my Knight, my Knight!" and
turning to the men who followed him, he exclaimed, "There is yet
hope!  Will you see our trust betrayed, our noble Knight foully
murdered and delivered to his enemies, or will ye strike a bold
stroke in his defence?  He who is not dead to honour, follow me!"

There was a postern, of which Eustace had given Gaston the key, on
his departure, and thither the faithful Squire hastened, without
looking back to see whether he was followed by many or few--in fact,
rather ready to die with Sir Eustace than hoping to rescue him.  The
ten Englishmen and some eight Frenchmen, infected by the desperation
of his manner, followed him closely as he rushed up the slope, dashed
through the moat, and in another moment, opening the door, burst into
the court.  There stood a party of the garrison, upon whom he rushed
with a shout of "Death, death to the traitor!"  Gaston's arm did the
work of three, as he hewed down the villains, who, surprised and
discomfited, made feeble resistance.  Who they were, or how many, he
saw not, he cared not, but struck right and left, till the piteous
cries for mercy, in familiar tones, made some impression, and he
paused, as did his companions, while, in a tone of rage and anguish,
he demanded, "Where is Sir Eustace?"

"Ah! Master d'Aubricour, 'twas not me, 'twas the traitor, Sanchez--
'twas Tristan," was the answer.  "Oh, mercy, for our blessed Lady's
sake!"

"No mercy, dogs! till ye have shown me Sir Eustace in life and limb."

"Alas! alas! Master d'Aubricour!"  This cry arose from some of the
English; and Gaston, springing towards the bartizan, beheld the
senseless form of his beloved Knight lying stretched in a pool of
his own blood!  Pouring out lamentations in the passionate terms of
the South, tearing his hair at having been beguiled into leaving the
Castle, and vowing the most desperate vengeance against Clarenham
and his accomplices, he lifted his master from the ground, and, as
he did so, he fancied he felt a slight movement of the chest, and a
faint moan fell upon his ear.

What recked Gaston that the Castle was but half taken, that enemies
were around on every side?  He saw only, heard only, thought only,
of Sir Eustace!  What was life or death, prosperity or adversity,
save as shared with him!  He lifted the Knight in his arms, and,
hurrying up the stone steps, placed him on his couch.

"Bring water! bring wine!" he shouted as he crossed the hall.  A
horse-boy followed with a pitcher of water, and Gaston, unfastening
the collar of his doublet, raised his head, held his face towards
the air, and deluged it with water, entreating him to look up and
speak.

A few long painful gasps, and the eyes were half unclosed, while a
scarce audible voice said, "Gaston! is it thou?  I deemed it was
over!" and then the eyes closed again.  Gaston's heart was lightened
at having heard that voice once more, even had that word been his
last--and answering, "Ay, truly, Sir Knight, all is well so you
will but look up," he succeed in pouring a little water into his
mouth.

He was interrupted by several of the men-at-arms, who came trooping
up to the door, looking anxiously at the wounded Knight, while the
foremost said, "Master Gaston, here is gear which must be looked
to.  Thibault Sanchez and half a dozen more have drawn together in
Montfort's tower, and swear they will not come forth till we have
promised their lives."

"Give them no such pledge!--Hang without mercy!" cried another voice
from behind.  "Did not I myself hear the traitorous villains send
off Tristan de la Fleche to bear the news to Carcassonne?  We shall
have the butcher of Bretagne at our throats before another hour is
over."

"Cowardly traitor!" cried Gaston.  "Wherefore didst thou not cut the
throat of the caitiff, and make in to the rescue of the Knight?"

"Why, Master d'Aubricour, the deed was done ere I was well awake, and
when it was done, and could not be undone, and we were but four men
to a dozen, what could a poor groom do?  But you had better look to
yourself; for it is true as the legends of the saints, that Tristan
is gone to Carcassonne, riding full speed on the Knight's own black
charger!"

The news seemed to have greater effect in restoring Eustace than any
of Gaston's attentions.  He again opened his eyes, and made an effort
to raise his head, as he said, almost instinctively, "Secure the
gates!  Warders, to your posts!"

The men stood amazed; and Eustace, rallying, looked around him, and
perceived the state of the case.  "Said you they had sent to summon
the enemy?" said he.

"Martin said so," replied Gaston, "and I fear it is but too true."

"Not a moment to be lost!" said Eustace.  "Give me some wine!" and
he spoke in a stronger voice, "How many of you are true to King
Edward and to the Prince?  All who will not fight to the death in
their cause have free leave to quit this Castle; but, first, a
message must be sent to Bordeaux."

"True, Sir Eustace, but on whom can we rely?" asked Gaston.

"Alas!  I fear my faithful Ingram must be slain," said the Knight,
"else this could never have been.  Know you aught of him?" he added,
looking anxiously at the men.

The answer was a call from one of the men: "Here, John, don't stand
there grunting like a hog; the Knight is asking for you, don't you
hear?"

A slight scuffle was heard, and in a few seconds the broad figure
of Ingram shouldered through the midst of the men-at-arms.  He came,
almost like a man in a dream, to the middle of the room, and there,
suddenly dropping upon his knees, he clasped his hands, exclaiming,
"I, John Ingram, hereby solemnly vow to our blessed Lady of Taunton,
and St. Joseph of Glastonbury, that never more will I drink sack,
or wine or any other sort or kind, spiced or unspiced, on holiday
or common day, by day or night.  So help me, our blessed Lady and
St. Joseph."

"Stand up, John, and let us know if you are in your senses," said
Gaston, angrily; "we have no time for fooleries.  Let us know
whether you have been knave, traitor, or fool; for one or other
you must have been, to be standing here sound and safe."

"You are right, Sir Squire," said Ingram, covering his face with his
hands.  "I would I were ten feet underground ere I had seen this day;"
and he groaned aloud.

"You have been deceived by their arts," said Eustace.  "That I can
well believe; but that you should be a traitor, never, my trusty John!"

"Blessings on you for the word, Sir Eustace!" cried the yeoman, while
tears fell down his rough cheeks.  "Oh! all the wine in the world may
be burnt to the very dregs ere I again let a drop cross my lips! but
it was drugged, Sir Eustace, it was drugged--that will I aver to my
dying day."

"I believe it," said Eustace; "but we must not wait to hear your
tale, John.  You must take horse and ride with all speed to Bordeaux.
One of you go and prepare a horse--"

"Take Brigliador!" said Gaston; "he is the swiftest.  Poor fellow!
well that I spared him from our journey amid the mountain passes."

"Then," proceeded Eustace, "bear the news of our case--that we have
been betrayed--that Clisson will be on us immediately--that we will
do all that man can do to hold out till succour can come, which I
pray the Prince to send us."

"Take care to whom he addresses himself," said Gaston.  "To some our
strait will be welcome news."

"True," said Eustace.  "Do thy best to see Sir John Chandos, or, if
he be not at the court, prefer thy suit to the Prince himself--to
any save the Earl of Pembroke.  Or if thou couldst see little Arthur,
it might be best of all.  Dost understand my orders, John?"

"Ay, Sir," said Ingram, shaking his great head, while the tears still
flowed down his cheeks; "but to see you in this case!"

"Think not of that, kind John," said Eustace; "death must come sooner
or later, and a sword-cut is the end for a Knight."

"You will not, shall not die, Sir Eustace!" cried Gaston.  "Your
wounds--"

"I know not, Gaston; but the point is now, not of saving my life,
but the Castle.  Speed, speed, Ingram!  Tell the Prince, if this
Castle be taken, it opens the way to Bordeaux itself.  Tell him how
many brave men it contains, and say to him that I pray him not to
deem that Eustace Lynwood hath disgraced his knighthood.  Tell
Arthur, too, to bear me sometimes in mind, and never forget the
line he comes of.  Fare thee well, good John!"

"Let me but hear that I have your forgiveness, Sir Knight."

"You have it, as freely as I hope for mercy.  One thing more: should
you see Leonard Ashton, let him know that I bear him no ill-will, and
pray him not to leave the fair fame of his old comrade foully stained.
Farewell: here is my hand--do not take it as scorn that it is my left
--my right I cannot move--"

The yeoman still stood in a sort of trance, gazing at him, as if
unable to tear himself away.

"See him off, Gaston," said the Knight; "then have the walls
properly manned--all is in your hands."

Gaston obeyed, hurrying him to the gate, and giving him more hope
of Sir Eustace's recovery than he felt; for he knew that nothing
but the prospect of saving him was likely to inspire the yeoman
with either speed or pertinacity enough to be of use.  He fondly
patted Brigliador, who turned his neck in amaze at finding it was
not his master who mounted him, and having watched them for a
moment, he turned to look round the court, which was empty, save
for the bodies of those whom he had slain in his furious onset.
He next repaired to the hall, where he found the greater part of
the men loitering about and exchanging different reports of strange
events which had taken place:--"He can't be a wizard, for certain,"
said one, "or he never would be in this case, unless his bargain
was up."

"It were shame not to stand by him now in the face of the enemy,"
said another.  "How bold he spoke, weak and wounded as he was!"

"He is of the old English stock," said a third,--"a brave, stout-
hearted young Knight."

"Well spoken, old Simon Silverlocks," said Gaston, entering.  "I doubt
where you would find another such within the wide realm of France."

"He is brave enough, that no man doubts," answered Simon, "but
somewhat of the strictest, especially considering his years.  Sir
Reginald was nothing to him."

"Was it not time to be strict when there was such a nest of treachery
within the Castle?" said Gaston.  "We knew that murderous miscreant
of a Basque, and had we not kept well on our guard against him, you,
Master Simon, would long since have been hanging as high from
Montfort's tower as I trust soon to see him."

"But how knew you him, Master d'Aubricour? that is the question,"
said old Simon with a very solemn face of awe.

"How? why by means of somewhat sharper eyes than you seem to possess.
I have no time to bandy words--all I come to ask is, will you do the
duty of honest men or not?  If not, away with you, and I and the
Knight will abide here till it pleases Messire Oliver, the butcher,
to practice his trade on us.  I remember, if some of the Lances of
Lynwood do not, a certain camp at Valladolid, when some of us might
have been ill off had he not stood by our beds of sickness; nor will
I easily desert that pennon which was so gallantly made a banner."

These were remembrances to stir the hearts of the ancient Lances of
Lynwood, and there was a cry among them of, "We will never turn our
backs on it!  Lynwood for ever!"

"Right, mine old comrades.  Our walls are strong; our hearts are
stronger; three days, and aid must come from Bordeaux.  The traitors
are captives, and we know to whom to trust; for ye, of English birth,
and ye, my countrymen, who made in so boldly to the rescue, ye will
not fail at this pinch, and see a brave and noble Knight yielded to
a pack of cowardly murderers."

"Never! never!  We will stand by him to the last drop of our blood,"
they replied; for the sight of the brave wounded Knight, as well as
the example of Gaston's earnestness and devotion, had had a powerful
effect, and they unanimously joined the Squire in a solemn pledge to
defend both Castle and Knight to the last extremity.

"Then up with the good old banner!" said Gaston, "and let us give
Messire Oliver such a reception as he will be little prepared for."
He then gave some hasty directions, appointed old Silverlocks, a
skilled and tried warrior, to take the place of Seneschal for the
time, and to superintend the arrangements; and sending two men to
guard the entrance of Montfort's tower, where Sanchez and his
accomplices had shut themselves up, he returned to the Castellane's
chamber.

Never was there an apartment more desolate.  Chateau Norbelle was
built more to be defended than to be inhabited, and the rooms were
rather so much inclosed space than places intended for comfort.
The walls were of unhewn stone, and, as well as the roof, thickly
tapestried with cobwebs,--the narrow loophole which admitted light
was unglazed,--and there was nothing in the whole chamber that
could be called furniture, save the two rude pallets which served
the Knight and Squire for beds, and a chest which had been forced
open and rifled by the mutineers.  They had carried off Eustace's
beloved books, to burn them in the court as instruments of sorcery,
and a few garments it had likewise contained lay scattered about
the room.  Gaston hastened to the side of his beloved Knight, almost
dreading, from his silence and stillness, to find him expiring.  But
he was only faint and exhausted, and when Gaston raised him, and
began to examine his wounds, he looked up, saying, "Thanks, thanks,
kind Gaston! but waste not your time here.  The Castle! the Castle!"

"What care I for the Castle compared to your life!" said Gaston.

"For my honour and your own," said Eustace, fixing his eyes on his
Squire's face.  "Gaston, I fear you," he added, stretching out his
hand and grasping that of d'Aubricour; "if you survive, you will
forget the duty you owe the King, for the purpose of avenging me
upon Clarenham.  If ever you have loved me, Gaston, give me your
solemn promise that this shall not be."

"It was the purpose for which I should have lived," said Gaston.

"You resign it?" said Eustace, still retaining his hold of his hand.
"You touch not one of my wounds till you have given me your oath."

"I swear it, then," said Gaston, "since you will ever have your own
way, and I do it the rather that Messire Oliver de Clisson will
probably save me the pain of keeping the pledge."

"You have taken all measures for defence?"

"Yes.  The men-at-arms, such as are left, may be trusted, and have
all taken an oath to stand by us, which I do not think they will
readily break.  The rest either made off with the baggage-mules, or
were slain when we broke in to your rescue, or are shut up with Le
Borgne Basque in Montfort's tower.  I have sent the men to their
posts, put them under Silverlock's orders, and told him to come to
me for directions."

Eustace at last resigned himself into the Squire's hands.  A broken
arm, a ghastly-looking cut on the head, and a deep thrust with a
poniard in the breast, seemed the most serious of the injuries he had
received; but there were numerous lesser gashes and stabs which had
occasioned a great effusion of blood, and he had been considerably
bruised by his fall.

Gaston could attempt nothing but applying some ointment, sold by a
Jew at Bordeaux as an infallible cure for all wounds and bruises; and,
having done all he could for the comfort of his patient, quitted him
to attend to the defence of the Castle.

His first visit was to Montfort's tower, one of the four flanking the
main body of the Castle.

"Well, Master Thibault Sanchez, or, if you like it better, Le Borgne
Basque," cried he, "thank you for saving us some trouble.  You have
found yourself a convenient prison there, and I hope you are at your
ease."

"We shall see how you are at your ease, Master Gaston le Maure,"
retorted Sanchez from the depths of the tower, "when another Borgne
shall make his appearance, and string you up as a traitor to King
Charles, your liege lord."

"Le Borgne Basque talking of traitors and such gear!" returned
Gaston;  "but he will tell a different tale when the succours come
from the Prince."

"Ha! ha!" laughed Thibault, "a little bird whispered in mine ear
that you may look long for succour from Bordeaux."

This was, in a great measure, Gaston's own conviction; but he only
replied the more vehemently that it could not fail, since neither
Knights nor Castles were so lightly parted with, and that he trusted
soon to have the satisfaction of seeing the inhabitants of the tower
receive the reward of their treachery.

Thus they parted--Thibault, perfectly well satisfied to remain
where he was, since he had little doubt that Oliver de Clisson's
speedy arrival would set him at liberty, and turn the tables upon
Gaston; and Gaston, glad that, since he could not at present have
the satisfaction of hanging him, he was in a place where he could
do no mischief, and whence he could not escape.

Now the warder on the watch-tower blew a blast, and every eye was
turned towards the eastern part of the country, where, in the
direction of Carcassonne, was to be seen a thick cloud of dust,
from which, in due time, were visible the flashes of armour, and
the points of weapons.  Gaston, having given his orders, and
quickened the activity of each man in his small garrison, hurried
down to bear the tidings to Sir Eustace, and to array himself in
his own brightest helmet and gayest surcoat.

Ascending again to the battlements, he could see the enemy approaching,
could distinguish the banner of Clisson, and count the long array of
men-at-arms and crossbow-men as they pursued their way through the
bright green landscape, now half hidden by a rising ground, now slowly
winding from its summit.

At last they came to the foot of the slope.  Gaston had already
marked the start and pause, which showed when they first recognized
the English standard; and there was another stop, while they ranged
themselves in order, and, after a moment's interval, a man-at-arms
rode forward towards the postern door, looked earnestly at it, and
called "Sanchez!"

"Shoot him dead!" said Gaston to an English crossbow-man who stood
beside him; "it is the villain Tristan, on poor Ferragus."

The arblast twanged, and Tristan fell, while poor Ferragus, after
starting violently, trotted round to the well-known gate, and stood
there neighing.  "Poor fellow!" said Gaston, "art calling Brigliador?
I would I knew he had sped well."

The French, dismayed by the reception of their guide, held back; but
presently a pursuivant came forward from their ranks, and, after his
trumpet had been sounded, summoned, in the name of the good Knight,
Messire Oliver de Clisson, the garrison of Chateau Norbelle to
surrender it into his hands, as thereto commissioned by his grace,
Charles, King of France.

The garrison replied by another trumpet, and Gaston, standing forth
upon the battlements, over the gateway, demanded to speak with Sir
Oliver de Clisson, and to have safe-conduct to and from the open
space at the foot of the slope.  This being granted, the drawbridge
was lowered, and the portcullis raised.  Ferragus entered, and went
straight to his own stall; and Gaston d'Aubricour came forth in
complete armour, and was conducted by the pursuivant to the leader
of the troop.  Sir Oliver de Clisson, as he sat on horseback with
the visor of his helmet raised, had little or nothing of the
appearance of the courteous Knight of the period.  His features
were not, perhaps, originally as harsh and ill-formed as those of
his compeer, Bertrand du Guesclin, but there was a want of the
frank open expression and courteous demeanour which so well suited
the high chivalrous temper of the great Constable of France.  They
were dark and stern, and the loss of an eye, which had been put out
by an arrow, rendered him still more hard-favoured.  He was, in fact,
a man soured by early injuries--his father had been treacherously
put to death by King John of France, when Duke of Normandy, and his
brother had been murdered by an Englishman--his native Brittany was
torn by dissensions and divisions--and his youth had been passed in
bloodshed and violence.  He had now attained the deserved fame of
being the second Knight in France, honourable and loyal as regarded
his King, but harsh, rigid, cruel, of an unlovable temper, which
made him in after years a mark for plots and conspiracies; and the
vindictive temper of the Celtic race leading him to avenge the death
of his brother upon every Englishman who fell into his hands.

"So, Sir Squire!" exclaimed he, in his harsh voice, "what excuse
do you come to make for slaying my messenger ere he had time to
deliver his charge?"

"I own him as no messenger," returned Gaston.  "He was a renegade
traitor from our own Castle, seeking his accomplice in villainy!"

"Well, speak on," said Oliver, to whom the death of a man-at-arms
was a matter of slight importance.  "Art thou come to deliver up
the Castle to its rightful lord?"

"No, Messire Oliver," replied Gaston.  "I come to bring the reply
of the Castellane, Sir Eustace Lynwood, that he will hold out the
Castle to the last extremity against all and each of your attacks."

"Sir Eustace Lynwood?  What means this, Master Squire?  Yonder knave
declared he was dead!"

"Hear me, Sir Oliver de Clisson," said Gaston.  "Sir Eustace Lynwood
hath a pair of mortal foes at the Prince's court, who prevailed on a
part of the garrison to yield him into your hands.  In my absence,
they in part succeeded.  By the negligence of a drunken groom they
were enabled to fall upon him in his sleep, and, as they deemed, had
murdered him.  I, returning with the rest of the garrison, was enabled
to rescue him, and deliver the Castle, where he now lies--alive,
indeed, but desperately wounded.  Now, I call upon you, Sir Oliver,
to judge, whether it be the part of a true and honourable Knight to
become partner of such miscreants, and to take advantage of so foul
a web of treachery?"

"This may be a fine tale for the ears of younger knights-errant,
Sir Squire," was the reply of Clisson.  "For my part though I am
no lover of treason, I may not let the King's service be stayed by
scruples.  For yourself, Sir Squire, I make you a fair offer.  You
are, by your tongue and countenance, a Gascon--a liegeman born of
King Charles of France.  To you, and to every other man of French
birth, I offer to enter his service, or to depart whither it may
please you, with arms and baggage, so you will place the Castle
in our hands--and leave us to work our will of the island dogs
it contains!"

"Thanks, Sir Oliver, for such a boon as I would not vouchsafe to
stoop to pick up, were it thrown at my feet!"

"Well and good, Sir Squire," said Clisson, rather pleased at the
bold reply.  "We understand each other.  Fare thee well."

And Gaston walked back to the Castle, muttering to himself, "Had it
been but the will of the Saints to have sent Du Guesclin hither,
then would Sir Eustace have been as safe and free as in Lynwood
Keep itself!  But what matters it?  If he dies of his wounds, what
good would my life do me, save to avenge him--and from that he has
debarred me.  So, grim Oliver, do thy worst!--Ha!" as he entered
the Castle--"down portcullis--up drawbridge!  Archers, bend your
bows!  Martin, stones for the mangonel!"

Nor was the assault long delayed.  Clisson's men only waited to
secure their horses and prepare their ladders, and the attack was
made on every side.

It was well and manfully resisted.  Bravely did the little garrison
struggle with the numbers that poured against them on every side,
and the day wore away in the desperate conflict.

Sir Eustace heard the loud cries of "Montjoie St. Denis! Clisson!"
on the one side, and the "St. George for Merry England!  A Lynwood!"
with which his own party replied; he heard the thundering of heavy
stones, the rush of combatants, the cries of victory or defeat.
Sometimes his whole being seemed in the fight; he clenched his
teeth, he shouted his war-cry, tried to raise himself and lift his
powerless arm; then returned again to the consciousness of his
condition, clasped either the rosary or the crucifix, and turned
his soul to fervent prayer; then, again, the strange wild cries
without confounded themselves into one maddening noise on his
feverish ear, or, in the confusion of his weakened faculties, he
would, as it were, believe himself to be his brother dying on the
field of Navaretta, and scarce be able to rouse himself to a feeling
of his own identity.

So passed the day--and twilight was fast deepening into night, when
the cries, a short time since more furious than ever, and nearer
and more exulting on the part of the French, at length subsided,
and finally died away; the trampling steps of the men-at-arms could
be heard in the hall below, and Gaston himself came up with hasty
step, undid his helmet, and, wiping his brow, threw himself on the
ground with his back against the chest, saying, "Well, we have done
our devoir, at any rate!  Poor Brigliador!  I am glad he has a kind
master in Ingram!"

"Have they won the court?" asked Eustace.  "I thought I heard their
shouts within it."

"Ay!  Even so.  How could we guard such an extent of wall with barely
five and twenty men?  Old Silverlocks and Jaques de l'Eure are slain
Martin badly wounded, and we all forced back into the inner court,
after doing all it was in a man to do."

"I heard your voice, bold and cheerful as ever, above the tumult,"
said Eustace.  "But the inner court is fit for a long defence--that
staircase parapet, where so few can attack at once."

"Ay," said Gaston, "it was that and the darkness that stopped
them.  There I can detain them long enough to give the chance of the
succours, so those knaves below do not fail in spirit--and they know
well enough what chance they have from yon grim-visaged Breton!  But
as to those succours, I no more expect them than I do to see the
Prince at their head!  A hundred to one that he never hears of our
need, or, if he should, that Pembroke and Clarenham do not delay the
troops till too late."

"And there will be the loss of the most important castle, and the
most faithful and kindest heart!" said Eustace.  "But go, Gaston--
food and rest you must need after this long day's fight--and the
defences must be looked to, and the men cheered!"

"Yes," said Gaston, slowly rising, and bending over the Knight; "but
is there nought I can do for you, Sir Eustace?"

"Nought, save to replenish my cup of water.  It is well for me that
the enemy have not cut us off from the Castle well."

Gaston's supper did not occupy him long.  He was soon again in
Eustace's room, talking over his plan of defence for the next day;
but with little, if any, hope that it would be other than his last
struggle.  At last, wearied out with the exertions of that day and
the preceding, he listened to Eustace's persuasions, and, removing
the more cumbrous portions of his armour, threw himself on his bed,
and, in a moment, his regular breathings announced that he was
sound asleep.

It was in the pale early light of dawn that he awoke, and, starting
up while still half asleep, exclaimed, "Sir Eustace, are you there?
I should have relieved guard long since!"  Then, as he recalled his
situation, "I had forgot!  How is it with you, Sir Eustace?  Have
you slept?"

"No," said Eustace.  "I have not lost an hour of this last night
I shall ever see.  It will soon be over now--the sun is already
reddening the sky; and so, Gaston, ends our long true-hearted
affection.  Little did I think it would bring thee to thy death
in the prime of they strength and manhood!" and he looked
mournfully on the lofty stature and vigorous form of the Squire,
as he stood over him.

"For that, Sir Eustace, there is little cause to grieve.  I have been
a wanderer, friendless and homeless, throughout my life; and save for
yourself, and, perhaps, poor little Arthur's kind heart, where is one
who would cast a second thought on me, beyond, perhaps, saying, 'He
was a brave and faithful Squire!'  But little, little did I think,
when I saw your spurs so nobly won, that this was to be the end of
it--that you were to die, defamed and reviled, in an obscure den, and
by the foul treachery of--"

"Speak not of that, Gaston," said Eustace.  "I have dwelt on it in
the long hours of the night, and I have schooled my mind to bear
it.  Those with whom we shall soon be, know that if I have sinned
in many points, yet I am guiltless in that whereof they accuse me--
and, for the rest, there are, at least, two who will think no shame
of Eustace Lynwood.  And now, if there is yet time, Gaston, since
no Priest is at hand, I would pray thee to do me the last favour of
hearing the confession of my sins."

And Gaston kneeling down, the Knight and Squire, according to the
custom of warriors in extremity, confessed to each other, with the
crucifix raised between them.  Eustace then, with his weak and
failing voice, repeated several prayers and psalms appropriate to
the occasion, in which Gaston joined with hearty devotion.  By this
time, a slight stir was heard within the Castle; and Gaston, rising
from his knees, went to the loophole, which commanded a view of the
court, where the French had taken up their quarters for the night
in some of the outbuildings--and the lion rampant of Clisson was
waving in triumph on the gateway tower.

"All silent there," said he; "but I must go to rouse our knaves in
time to meet the first onset."  And, as he clasped on his armour,
he continued, "All that is in the power of man will we do!  Rest
assured, Sir Eustace, they reach you not save through my body;
and let your prayers be with me.  One embrace, Sir Eustace, and
we meet no more--"

"In this world."  Eustace concluded the sentence, as Gaston hung
over him, and his tears dropped on his face.  "Farewell, most
faithful and most true-hearted!  Go, I command thee!  Think not
on me--think on thy duty--and good angels will be around us both.
Farewell, farewell."

Gaston, for the first time in his life, felt himself unable to speak.
He crossed the room with slow and lingering step; then, with a great
effort, dashed out at the door, closing his visor as he did so, and,
after a short interval, during which he seemed to have stopped on the
stairs, Eustace could hear his gay bold tones, calling, "Up! up! my
merry men, all!  Let not the French dogs find the wolf asleep in his
den.  They will find our inner bartizan a hard stone for their teeth--
and it will be our own fault, if they crack it before the coming of
our brave comrades from Bordeaux!"






CHAPTER XIV



The open space beyond the walls of Bordeaux presented a bright and
lively scene.  It was here that the pages of the Black Prince were
wont to exercise those sports and pastimes for which the court of
the palace scarce offered sufficient space, or which were too noisy
for the neighbourhood of the ladies, and of the invalid Prince.

Of noble and often of princely birth were all who entered that
school of chivalry, and, for the most part, the fine open
countenances, noble bearing, and well-made figures of the boys,
testified their high descent, as completely as the armorial
bearings embroidered on the back and front of their short kirtles.
Many different provinces had sent their noblest to be there
trained in the service of the bravest Knights and Princes.  There,
besides the brown-haired, fair-skinned English boy, was the quick
fiery Welsh child, who owned an especial allegiance to the Prince;
the broad blue-eyed Fleming, whose parents rejoiced in the fame of
the son of Philippa of Hainault; the pert, lively Gascon, and the
swarthy Navarrese mountaineer--all brought together in close and
ever-changing contrast of countenance, habits, and character.

Of all the merry groups scattered through that wide green space, the
most interesting was one formed by three boys, who stood beneath a
tree, a little from the rest.  The two eldest might be from ten to
eleven years old, the third two or three years younger, and his
delicate features, fair pale complexion, and slender limbs, made him
appear too weak and childish for such active sports as the rest were
engaged in, but that the lordly glance of his clear blue eye, his
firm tread, and the noble carriage of his shapely head, had in them
something of command, which attracted notice even before the exceeding
beauty of his perfectly moulded face, and long waving curls of golden
hair.

So like him, that they might have passed for brothers, was one of the
elder boys, who stood near--there was the same high white brow, proud
lip, regular features, and bright eye; but the complexion, though
naturally fair, was tanned to a healthy brown where exposed to the
sun; the frame was far stronger and more robust; and the glance of
the eye had more in it of pride and impatience, than of calm command
so remarkable in the little one.  The three boys were standing in
consultation over an arrow which they had just discovered, stuck
deep in the ground.

"'Tis my arrow, that I shot over the mark on Monday," said the elder.

"Nay, Harry," said the younger boy, "that cannot be; for remember
Thomas Holland said your arrow would frighten the good nuns of St.
Ursula in their garden."

"It must be mine," persisted Harry--"for none of you all can shoot
as far."

"Yes, English Arthur can," said the little boy.  "He shot a whole
cloth-yard beyond you the day--"

"Well, never mind, Edward," said Harry, sharply--"who cares for
arrows?--weapons for clowns, and not for Princes!"

"Nay, not so, Lord Harry," interrupted the third boy: "I have heard
my uncle say, many a time, that England's archery is half her strength
--and how it was our archers at the battle of Crecy--"

"I know all that--how the men of Genoa had wet bow-strings, and ours
dry ones," said Henry; "but they were peasants, after all!"

"Ay; but a King of England should know how to praise and value his
good yeomen."

Henry turned on his heel, and, saying, "Well, let the arrow be whose
it will, I care not for it," walked off.

"Do you know why Harry of Lancaster goes, Arthur?" said Edward,
smiling.

"No, my Lord," replied Arthur.

"He cannot bear to hear aught of King of England," was the answer.
"If you love me, good Arthur, vex him not with speaking of it."

"Father Cyril would say, he ought to learn content with the rank
where he was born," said Arthur.

"Father Cyril, again!" said Prince Edward.  "You cannot live a day
without speaking of him, and of your uncle."

"I do not speak of them so much now," said Arthur, colouring, "It
is only you, Lord Edward, who never make game of me for doing so--
though, I trow, I have taught Pierre de Greilly to let my uncle's
name alone."

"Truly, you did so," said Edward, laughing, "and he has scarce yet
lost his black eye.  But I love to hear your tales, Arthur, of that
quiet Castle, and the old Blanc Etoile, and your uncle, who taught
you to ride.  Sit down here on the grass, and tell me more.  But what
are you staring at so fixedly?  At the poor jaded horse, that yonder
man-at-arms is urging on so painfully?"

"'Tis--No, it is not--Yes, 'tis Brigliador, and John Ingram himself,"
cried Arthur.  "Oh, my uncle! my uncle!"  And, in one moment, he
had bounded across the ditch, which fenced in their exercising
ground, and had rushed to meet Ingram.  "Oh, John!" exclaimed he,
breathlessly, "have they done it?  Oh, tell me of Uncle Eustace!
I he alive?"

"Master Arthur!" exclaimed Ingram, stopping his wearied horse.

"Oh, tell me, Ingram," reiterated Arthur, "is my uncle safe?"

"He is alive, Master Arthur--that is, he was when I came away, but
as sore wounded as ever I saw a Knight.  And the butcher of Brittany
is upon them by this time!  And here I am sent to ask succours--and
I know no more whom to address myself, than the cock at the top of
Lynwood steeple!"

"But what has chanced, John?--make haste, and tell me."

And John, in his own awkward and confused style, narrated how he
had been entrapped by Sanchez, and the consequences of his excess.
"But," said he, "I have vowed to our Lady of Taunton, and St.
Joseph of Glastonbury, that never again--"

Arthur had covered his face with his hands, and gave way to tears
of indignation and grief, as he felt his helplessness.  But one
hand was kindly withdrawn, and a gentle voice said, "Weep not,
Arthur, but come with me, and my father will send relief to the
Castle, and save your uncle."

"You here, Lord Edward?" exclaimed Arthur, who had not perceived
that the Prince had followed him.  "Oh yes, thanks, thanks!  None
but the Prince can save him.  Oh, let me see him myself, and that
instantly!"

"Then, let us come," said Edward, still holding Arthur's hand.

Arthur set off at such a pace, as to press the little Prince into
a breathless trot by his side; but he, too, was all eagerness, and
scorned to complain.  They proceeded without interruption to the
court of the palace.  Edward, leading the way, hastened to his
mother's apartments.  He threw open the door, looked in, and,
saying to Arthur, "He must be in the council chamber," cut short
an exclamation of Lady Maude Holland, by shutting the door, and
running down a long gallery to an ante-chamber, where were several
persons waiting for an audience, and two warders, with halberts
erect, standing on guard outside a closed door.

"The Prince is in council, my Lord."

Edward drew up his head, and, waving them aside with a gesture that
became the heir of England, said, "I take it upon myself."  He then
opened the door, and, still holding Arthur fast by the hand, led him
into the chamber where the Prince of Wales sat in consultation.

There was a pause of amazement as the two boys advanced to the high
carved chair on which the Prince was seated--and Edward exclaimed,
"Father, save Arthur's uncle!"

"What means this, Edward?" demanded the Prince of Wales, somewhat
sternly.  "Go to your mother, boy--we cannot hear you now, and--"

"I cannot go, father," replied the child, "till you have promised
to save Arthur's uncle!  He is wounded!--the traitors have wounded
him!--and the French will take the Castle, and he will be slain!
And Arthur loves him so much!"

"Come here, Edward," said the Prince, remarking the flushed cheek
and tearful eye of his son. "and tell me what this means."

Edward obeyed, but without loosing his hold of his young friend's
hand.  "The man-at-arms is come, all heat and dust, on the poor
drooping, jaded steed--and he said, the Knight would be slain, and
the Castle taken, unless you would send him relief.  It is Arthur's
uncle that he loves so well."

"Arthur's uncle?" repeated the Prince--and, turning his eyes on the
suppliant figure, he said, "Arthur Lynwood!  Speak, boy."

"Oh, my Lord," said Arthur, commanding his voice with difficulty,
"I would only pray you to send succour to my uncle at Chateau
Norbelle, and save him from being murdered by Oliver de Clisson."

It was a voice which boded little good to Arthur's suit that now
spoke.  "If it be Sir Eustace Lynwood, at Chateau Norbelle, of
whom the young Prince speaks, he can scarce be in any strait, since
the garrison is more than sufficient."

The little page started to his feet, and, regarding the speaker with
flashing eyes, exclaimed, "Hearken not to him, my Lord Prince!  He is
the cause of all the treachery!--he is the ruin and destruction of my
uncle;--he has deceived you with his falsehoods! --and now he would
be his death!"

"How now, my young cousin!" said Clarenham, in a most irritating tone
of indifference--"you forget in what presence you are."

"I do not," replied Arthur, fiercely.  "Before the Prince, Fulk
Clarenham, I declare you a false traitor!--and, if you dare deny
it, there lies my gloves!"

Fulk only replied by a scornful laugh, and, addressing the Prince,
said, "May I pray of your Grace not to be over severe with my young
malapert relation."

The Captal de Buch spoke: "You do not know what an adversary you
have provoked, Fulk!  The other day, I met my nephew, little Pierre,
with an eye as black as the patch we used to wear in our young days
of knight-errantry.  'What wars have you been in, Master Pierre?'
I asked.  It was English Arthur who had fought with him, for
mocking at his talking of nothing but his uncle.  But you need not
colour, and look so abashed, little Englishman!--I bear no more
malice than I hope Pierre does--I only wish I had as bold a champion!
I remember thine uncle, if he is the youth to whom the Constable
surrendered at Navaretta, and of whom we made so much."

"Too much then, and too little afterwards," said old Sir John Chandos.

"You do not know all, Chandos," said the Prince.

"You do not yourself know all, my Lord," said Arthur, turning eagerly.
"Lord de Clarenham has deceived you, and led you to imagine that my
uncle wished ill to me, and wanted to gain my lands; whereas it is
he himself who wants to have me in his hands to bend me to his will.
It is he who has placed traitors in Chateau Norbelle to slay my uncle
and deliver him to the enemy; they have already wounded him almost to
death"--here Arthur's lips quivered, and he could hardly restrain a
burst of tears--"and they have sent for Sir Oliver de Clisson, the
butcher.  Gaston will hold out as long as they can, but if you will
not send succours, my Lord, he will--will be slain; and kind Gaston
too;" and Arthur, unable to control himself any longer, covered his
face with his hands, and gave way to a silent suppressed agony of
sobs and tears.

"Cheer thee, my boy," said the Prince, kindly; "we will see to thine
uncle."  Then, looking at his nobles, he continued, "It seems that
these varlets will allow us no more peace; and since there does in
truth appear to be a Knight and Castle in jeopardy, one of you had,
perhaps, better go with a small band, and clear up this mystery.  If
it be as the boy saith, Lynwood hath had foul wrong."

"I care not if I be the one to go, my Lord," said Chandos; "my men
are aver kept in readiness, and a night's gallop will do the lazy
knaves all the good in the world."

Arthur, brushing off the tears, of which he was much ashamed, looked
at the old Knight in transport.

"Thanks, Chandos," said the Prince; "I would commit the matter to
none so willingly as to you, though I scarce would have asked it,
considering you were not quite so prompt on a late occasion."

"My Lord of Pembroke will allow, however, that I did come in time,"
said Sir John.  "It was his own presumption and foolhardiness that
got him into the scrape, and he was none the worse for the lesson
he received.  But this young fellow seems to have met with this
mischance by no fault of his own; and I am willing to see him
righted; for he is a good lad as well as a brave, as far as I have
known him."

"How came the tidings?" asked the Prince.  "Did not one of you boys
say somewhat of a man-at-arms?"

"Yes, my Lord," said Arthur; "John Ingram, my uncle's own yeoman, has
come upon Brigliador with all speed.  I sent him to the guard-room,
where he now waits in case you would see him."

"Ay," said old Chandos, "a man would have some assurance that he is
not going on a fool's errand.  Let us have him here, my Lord."

"Cause him to be summoned," said the Prince to Arthur.

"And at the same time," said Chandos, "send for my Squire, Henry
Neville, to the ante-chamber.  The men may get on their armour in
the meantime."

In a few minutes John Ingram made his appearance, the dust not yet
wiped from his armour, his hair hanging is disordered masses over
his forehead, and his jaws not completely resting from the
mastication of a huge piece of pasty.  His tale, though confused,
could not be for an instant doubted, as he told of the situation
in which he had left Chateau Norbelle and its Castellane, "The best
man could wish to live under.  Well, he hath forgiven me, and given
me his hand upon it"

"Forgiven thee--for what?" said the Prince.

"Ah! my Lord, I may speak of treason, but I am one of the traitors
myself!  Did not the good Knight leave me in charge to make my
rounds constantly in the Castle, while he slept after his long
watching? and lo, there comes that wily rascal, the Seneschal,
Sanchez, with his ''Tis a cold night, friend John; the Knight wakes
thee up early; come down to the buttery, and crack a cup of sack in
all friendliness!'  Down then go I, oaf that I was, thinking that,
may be, our Knight was over strict and harsh, and pulled the reins
so tight, that a poor man-at-arms must needs get a little diversion
now and then--as the proverb says, "when the cat's away, the mice
may play.'  But it was drugged, my Lord, else when would one cup
of spiced wine have so overcome me that I knew nought till I hear
Master d'Aubricour shouting treason in the courtyard like one
frantic?  But the Knight has forgiven me, and I have sworn to our
blessed Lady of Taunton, and St. Joseph of Glastonbury, that not a
draught of wine, spiced or unspiced, shall again cross my lips."

"A wholesome vow," said the Prince; "and her is a token to make
thee remember it,"--and he placed in the hand of the yeoman a
chain of some value.  "Go to the guard-room, where you shall be
well entertained till such time as we need thee again, as we may,
if you have been, as you say, long in Sir Eustace Lynwood's service.
But what now?  Hast more to say?"

"I would say--so please you, my Lord--that I pray you but to let me
ride back to Chateau Norbelle with this honourable Knight, for I owe
all service to Sir Eustace, nor could I rest till I know how it fares
with him."

"As you will, good fellow," said the Prince; "and you, Chandos, come
with me to my chamber--I would speak with you before you depart."

"My Lord," said Arthur, "would you but grant me one boon--to go with
Sir John to Chateau Norbelle?"

"You too?  You would almost make me think you all drawn by witchcraft
to this Castle!"  But Arthur's eagerness extorted a consent, and he
rode off amid Sir John Chandos's troop, boldly enough at first, but
by and by so sleepily, that, as night advanced, Sir John ordered him
to be placed in front of a trooper, and he soon lost all perception
of the rough rapid pace at which they travelled.  It was broad day
when he was awakened by a halt, and the first thing he heard was,
"There is St. George's pennon still safe!"

He sat upright, gazed eagerly forwards, and beheld a tall dark
tower rising by the bank of a stream at some distance.  "Chateau
Norbelle?" he asked.

"Oh, ho! my little page," said Chandos.  "You are alive again, are
you?  Ay, Chateau Norbelle it is--and we are in time it seems!  But
let us have you on your own steed again.  And let us see--if Oliver
be there himself, we shall have sharp work.  Ay, keep you by the
side of the old master leech there--he will be sure to keep out of
peril.  Now--close in--lances in rest--bows bent.  Forward banner!"

Arthur, by no means approving of the companionship assigned him,
contrived to wedge in his pony a little in the rear of Sir John's
two Squires, as the whole squadron rode down the slope of the hill,
and up the ascent on which the Castle stood.  Loud cries and shrieks
from within began to strike their ears--the clash of arms--all the
tumult of attack and defence raging fearfully high and wild.

"Ho, ho! friend Oliver!--we have you in a trap!" said old Chandos,
in high glee, as he drew up close without the walls.  "Neville,
guard the gates!"

He signed to about half his band to remain without, and cut off the
retreat of the enemy.  The Jew doctor chose his post in their rear,
close to the Castle moat--but not so Arthur.  Unnoticed and forgotten,
he still kept close behind the Squire, who rode alongside of Sir John
Chandos, as he crossed the drawbridge.  The Castle gate was open, and
showed a wild confused mass of struggling men and flashing arms.  It
was the last, most furious onset, when Clisson, enraged by the long
resistance of so weak a garrison, was concentrating his strength in
one effort, and, in the excitement of the assault, he had failed to
remark that his sentinels had transgressed his orders, and mingled
with the crowd, who were striving, by force of numbers, to overwhelm
the small troop of defenders of the bartizan.

In rushed Chandos, shouting his war-cry!--In dashed his stout
warriors, and loud and fierce pealed forth "St. George! St George!"
drowning the now feebler note of "Montjoie, St. Denis!" and fearful
were the shrieks of horror and of pain that rose mingled with it.
Hemmed in, attacked in front and rear, their retreat cut off, the
French looked in vain for escape; some went down beneath the
tremendous charge of the English, some cried for mercy, and
surrendered as prisoners.  Oliver de Clisson himself, seeing that
all was lost, swinging round his head his heavy battle-axe, opened
for himself a way, and, with a few followers, broke through the
men whom Chandos had left outside, and, cutting down a groom who
was holding it, captured one of his led horses, on which he rode
off at his leisure, confident in his own gigantic strength.

So little resistance had been offered, that Arthur's bold advance
had involved him in little danger; he was borne onwards, and only
was conscious of a frightful tumult, where all seemed to be
striking and crushing together.  At last, there was something of
a lull; the cries of mercy, and offers to surrender, alone were
heard.  Arthur found his pony standing still, and himself pressed
hither and thither by the crowd, from which he knew not how to
escape.

Above these various sounds he heard an opening door--there was
a press forward, which carried him with it.  The heavy doors,
shivered here and there by Clisson's axe, had been thrown wide
open; but the crowd closed in--he saw no more.  He threw himself
from his pony, struggled forwards, and at last, emerging between
the arms of two tall men, he beheld Sir John Chandos dismounting
from his war-horse, which was held by a grim, bloody, dusty figure
in broken armour, whose length of limb, and the crisp, black,
curled hair that showed through the shattered helmet, proved
that it could be no other than Gaston d'Aubricour.

Arthur darted forwards, his heart upon his lips; but neither Knight
nor Squire had eye or ear for him; they were hastily exchanging
queries about--he knew not what--they were not of his uncle; and,
borne on by his impatience, he hurried past them up the narrow
stone stair.  More than one corpse--a ghastly sight--lay on the
steps, but he hastened on; half a dozen men were standing on the
stones at the top, all, like Gaston, dusty and gory, and leaning
on their weapons, or on the wall, as if exhausted.  They were
looking intently at the court, and gave no heed to the boy, as he
ran on into the hall.  Two men lay there groaning before the fire.
Arthur stood and looked round, hesitating whether to ask them for
his uncle; but, perceiving the spiral stairs, quickly ascended.
Far and far up he wound, till he came to a low-browed arch; he
paused, and saw a large vaulted room, through the loop-hole window
of which shone a yellow stream of golden sunshine.  There was a low
bed in one corner, and on it lay a motionless form.  On tiptoe, and
with a throbbing heart, the boy approached; he saw the face--it was
ghastly pale.  He stood transfixed--could it be?--yes, it must still
be, his own Uncle Eustace.






CHAPTER XV



It was still very early, and the narrow line of sky seen from the
turret window was gilded by the bright pale-green light of morning,
when Sir Eustace awoke.  All around was perfectly still, and he
could have believed himself waking merely from a dream of tumult
and disturbance, but for his feelings of pain and weakness.  At
some little distance lay, on a softly-dressed sheepskin, the
oriental figure of the Jewish mediciner, and, at the foot of his
own bed, the unexpected form of little Arthur reclined, half
sitting, half lying, with his head resting on his crossed arms,
and his long curls floating over them.  All was a riddle to his
misty remembrance, clouded by weakness; and, in vague uncertain
recollections and conjectures, the time rolled away, till the
sounds of awakening and calls of the warders within the Castle
betokened that it was occupied by no small number of persons.
Still Arthur slept on, and Eustace abstained from the slightest
movement that could disturb him, till a step stole quietly to the
door, and Gaston's head was seen cautiously and anxiously looking
in.  Eustace, raising his hand, beckoned him, and made a sign of
silence.

"How is with you, Sir Eustace?  It must needs be better.  I see a
light in your eye once more."

"I am another man since yesterday, Gaston; but be careful--see there."

"Little fear of breaking such sleep as that," said Gaston.  "'Tis
a noble-hearted little fellow, and if matters go better with us
henceforth, it will be his work."

"What is become of Clisson?"

"He was riding off headlong when Master Henry Neville last beheld
him, gaining thereby a sound rating from old Chandos."

"Sir John Chandos here?"

"Fast asleep in your own carved chair, with his feet on the oaken
settle."

"Sir John Chandos!" again exclaimed Eustace.

"Even so.  All thanks to the brave young damoiseau who--"

Here Gaston's ardour had the effect of awakening the doctor, who
immediately began to grumble at his patient's admitting visitors
without permission.  By the time he had examined Eustace's wounds
and pronounced him to be progressing favourably, the whole Castle
was up and awake, and Arthur, against his will, was sent down to
attend on Sir John Chandos at breakfast, when scarce satisfied
that his uncle could speak to him.

In process of time he came up to announce a visit from Chandos
himself, and close on his steps followed the stalwart old warrior.
Pausing at the door, he looked around him, struck with the aspect
of the dungeon-like apartment, still more rugged in the morning
light than in the evening gloom--the bare rough walls, an arrow
sticking between the stones immediately above the Knight's head,
the want of furniture, the Knight's own mantle and that of Gaston
both called into requisition to protect him from the damp chill
night air, their bright hues and rich embroidery contrasting with
the squalid appearance of all around, as, indeed, did the noble
though pale features of the wounded man himself, and the graceful
attire and shining hair of the fair young boy who stood over him.
But Sir John beheld all with no dissatisfaction.

"Well, my brave young Sir," said he, advancing, "how is it with you
this morning?  You look cheerily; I trust we shall soon have you on
horseback again."

"Thanks to the blessed Saints and to you, Sir John," replied Eustace.
"I fear you fared ill last night for,"--and he looked round with a
smile--"you see, I occupy the state bed-chamber."

"The better, Sir Eustace," said Chandos.  "It does my heart good
to see such a chamber as this--none of the tapestry and hangings
which our young Knights nowadays fence themselves with, as if they
kept out the foe--this is what it is meant for--a stronghold, and
not a bower.  I'll have my dainty young Master Neville up here, to
see how a good Knight should be lodged."

"I fear he would scarce consider it as an example," said Eustace,
smiling, "since all our simplicity would not have availed to
protect us, but for your coming.  We little dreamt to see this
morning's light."

"True, but where should I look for a garrison to make such a defence
as you and your Squire have done?  When I saw the spot, and looked
at the numbers, and heard how long you had held out, methought I
was returned once more to the good old days of Calais.  And here
this youth of mine, not yet with his spurs, though I dare say full
five years older than you, must needs look sour upon it, because he
has to sleep on a settle for one night--and that, too, when he has
let Oliver de Clisson slip through his fingers, without so much as
a scratch taken or given on either side!  It grieves my very soul
to think on it!  But all has gone to rack and ruin since the Prince
has been unable to set the example."

"Is the Prince better in health?"

"Yes--so they say--but his looks tell another tale, and I never
expect to see him on horseback again," said the old warrior, with
a deep sigh.  "But I have to do his bidding here, and have much to
ask of you, Sir Eustace; and I do it the more willingly, that I
rejoice to see a brave man righted."

"Has the Prince, then, commanded an inquiry into my conduct?"
exclaimed Eustace, joyfully.  "It is what I have ever most warmly
desired."

"And know you whom you have to thank?" said Sire John.  "That
youngster who stands at your feet--'twas he that, with little Prince
Edward, burst into the council, and let not another word be said
till he had told your need, given Fulk Clarenham the lie direct,
and challenged him to prove his words.  Pray when is the defiance
to be fought out, Sir Page?"

Arthur coloured crimson, and looked down; then raising his glowing
face, said firmly, "To-morrow, if need were, Sir--for God would
defend the right!"

"Roundly spoken, Master Page!  But let not your early years be all
talk, nothing worth."

"The same warning that you gave to me, Sir John," said Eustace.

"When you thought I looked coldly and churlishly on your new-won
honours," said Sir John.  "I own I thought the Prince was bestowing
knighthood over lightly--and so do I say still, Sir Eustace.  But
I saw, afterwards, that you were not so easily uplifted as I had
thought.  I saw you as diligent in the study of all that was
knightly as if your spurs were yet to earn, and I knew the Prince
had a brave young servant in you."

"If he would have trusted me!" said Eustace.

"He hath been deceived by the flatterers who have gained his ear.
It should not have been thus had I been at court; but things have
been much against my counsel.  It may be that I have been too plain
spoken--forgetting that he is not the boy who used to be committed
to my charge--it may be that he hath been over hasty--and yet, when
I look on his changed mien and wasted face, I can scarce blame him,
nor must you, Sir Eustace, though cruel injustice hath, I fear,
been done you."

"I blame our glorious Prince!" exclaimed the young Knight.  "I would
as soon blame the sun in heaven because the clouds hide his face from
me for a time!"

"The clouds are likely to be dispersed with a vengeance," said
Chandos.  "The confession of yonder mutinous traitors will clear you
from all that your accusers have said, by proving their villainy and
baseness!"

"How?  Sanchez and his fellows?  Have they surrendered?"

"Yes.  They kept themselves shut up in Montfort's tower until they
lost all hope of relief from their friends without; then, being in
fear of starvation, they were forced to surrender, and came forth,
praying that their lives might be spared.  I, as you may suppose,
would as lief have spared the life of a wolf, and the halters were
already round their necks, when your dark-visaged Squire prayed me
to attempt to gain a confession from them; and, sure enough, they
told a marvellous tale:--that Clarenham had placed them here to
deliver you up to the enemy, whom they were to admit by a secret
passage--and that they would have done it, long since, save that
you and your Squire not only discovered the passage, but showed
such vigilance, and so frustrated all their plans, that they firmly
believed that you held commerce with the foul fiend.  Did you, in
truth, suspect their treachery?"

"Yes," replied Eustace, looking at Arthur.  "The recognition of Le
Borgne Basque in the Seneschal would have been sufficient to set us
on our guard."

"But the passage?" asked Sir John, "what knowledge had you of that?
for they vow that you could never have discovered it but by art
magic."

"We found it by long and diligent search."

"And what led you to search, Sir Eustace?  I you can clear up the
matter, it will be the better for you; for this accusation of
witchcraft will hang to you like a burr--the more, perhaps, as you
are somewhat of a scholar!"

"It was I who warned him of it, Sir Knight," said Arthur, stepping
forward.

"You, young Page!" exclaimed Sir John.  "Are you jesting?  Ha! then
you must have, page-like, been eaves-dropping!--I should scarce have
thought it of you."

"Oh, uncle!" exclaimed Arthur, in great distress, "you do not
believe me capable of aught so unknightly?  Do but say that you,
at least, trust my word, when I say that I learnt their plots by
no means unbecoming the son of Sir Reginald Lynwood."

"I believe you fully, Arthur," replied his uncle; "the more, that
I should have been the last person to whom you would have brought
information gained in such a fashion."

"And how was it gained?" asked Sir John.

"That," said the boy, "is a secret I am bound never to disclose."

"Strange, passing strange," repeated the old Knight, shaking his
head.  "Clarenham and Ashton would scarce have taken any into their
councils who would warn you.  And you will or can tell no more?"

"No more," replied the boy.  "I was bidden secretly to warn my uncle
of the entrance to the vaults, and of the treachery of this villain
garrison.  I did so, and he who says aught dishonourable of him or
of me lies in his throat."

"Can you read this riddle, Sir Eustace?" asked Chandos, looking
rather suspiciously at the very faint glow which mantled in the
white cheek of the wounded Knight.

"I know nothing but what he has told you, Sir John," replied he.

"Nor guess aught?" said Sir John; "but perhaps that is scarce a
fair query; and I will to the rest of my business, though it is
scarce needed--only I would have the Prince see the full extent
of the falsehoods with which he has been gulled."  And he then
proceeded to inquire into the circumstances of Lady Eleanor's
funeral, the brawling, the violent abstraction of Arthur, and
of a considerable portion of his property, and the long delay,
which had given his enemies so much opportunity to blacken his
character.  Eustace explained all fully to the satisfaction of
Chandos, and appealed to numerous witnesses.

"That is well," said the old Knight.  "We shall have it all clear
as daylight;--and the only wonder is, that the Prince could be so
long deceived by such monstrous falsehoods.  Let me see--your right
to the wardship is established?"

"Yes; it hath been so decided by the Bishop of Winchester."

"And let me tell you, Sir Eustace, you did yourself little good by
getting the interest of the Duke of Lancaster.  Methought it still
further prejudiced the Prince."

"It was justice that I sought, not favour," said Eustace.

"The knightly view," said Sir John; "and it was more the work of
your friends than yourself; but I never loved that young John of
Lancaster, and still less since he hath seemed willing to make a
party for himself.  I trow he hath given the Prince a distrust of
all uncles.  Ha! little varlet!" added he, as he met Arthur's eyes--
"if you can keep one secret, keep another, or, still better, forget
what I have said.  Understandest thou?"

"I will answer for him," said Eustace.

"And now," said Chandos, "I must be on my way back; for that
expedition to Bescancon must be looked to.  But what is to be done
with the boy?"

"Oh, I remain here," cried Arthur, eagerly.  "The Prince consented.
Oh, I pray of you let me stay here."

"In this dismal old Castle, Arthur," said Eustace, "apart from all
your playmates?  It will not be like home, remember; for scarce
ever will you be able to go beyond the walls--and with me lying
here, and Gaston always occupied, you will find it weary work."

"Not with you, Uncle Eustace!  I shall sit by you, and tend you, and
read to you.  It is so long since I have been with you!  Oh, send me
not away!  I care for no playmate--for nothing in the wide world, as
for you!"

"Well, let him e'en stay," said Sir John; "it will be a better
training for him than among the gilded little varlets who are
cockered up among Princess Joan's ladies."

The two Knights had next to arrange some matters respecting the
garrison; Sir John leaving a sufficient number of men to secure
the castle in case of a second attack.  He was somewhat inclined
to leave Master Henry Neville to command them; but consideration
for Eustace and Gaston induced him to spare the young gentleman
a sojourn which he would have regarded as so far from enviable.
Nor was the leech more desirous of a lengthened stay with a
patient whom he suspected to be unable to requite him for the
discomfort which he might endure in his service.  He therefore
pronounced Sir Eustace to stand in no further need of his
attentions; and recommending rest, and providing him with good
store of remedies, he saddled his mule to accompany Sir John
Chandos.

The old Commander took his leave, with many kind wishes for Sir
Eustace's speedy recovery, and promises that he should ere long
hear from Bordeaux.  In ten minutes more Arthur, standing at the
window, announced that the troop was riding off, with Clisson's
pennon borne among them in triumph, and Sanchez and his accomplices,
with their hands tied, and their feet fastened together beneath the
bodies of their horses.






CHAPTER XVI



Four or five weeks had passed away since Sir John Chandos had quitted
the Chateau Norbelle.

The Knight had nearly recovered his full strength, but still wore
his broken arm in a scarf, when, one evening, as he was sitting on
the battlements, delighting the ears of Arthur and of Gaston with
an interminable romance of chivalry, three or four horseman,
bearing the colours and badges of the Black Prince, were descried
riding towards the Castle.  Knight, Squire, and Page instantly
descended to the courtyard, which, in short space, was entered by
the messengers, the principal of whom, an elderly man-at-arms,
respectfully saluted the Knight, and delivered to him a parchment
scroll, tied with silk of scarlet and blue, supporting the heavy
seal of the Prince of Wales and Duke of Aquitaine, and addressed
to the hands of the honourable Knight Banneret Sir Eustace Lynwood,
Castellane of the Chateau Norbelle.  This document bore the signature
of Edward himself, and contained his mandate to Eustace, to come
immediately to his court at Bordeaux, leaving the command of the
Chateau Norbelle to the bearer.

The old man-at-arms was closely questioned all the evening respecting
the state of the court, but he could give little information.  Sir
John Chandos was at Bordeaux, and had daily attended the council, to
which the Prince was devoting more attention than usual; a vessel had
also arrived bearing letters from England to the Prince; this was all
the information that could be obtained.

The next morning Eustace, with Gaston, Arthur, and Ingram, all full
of expectation, and delighted at the change from the gloomy solitary
old Castle, were all posting on their way back to Bordeaux.  They
slept at an hostel about twelve miles from the town, first, however,
by desire of the Prince's messengers, sending Ingram on to announce
their speedy arrival, and about ten in the morning rode into town.

There was evidently some grand spectacle at hand, for the Bordelais,
gentle and simple, in holiday habits, were proceeding in the direction
of the palace; but the Knight and his attendants had no time to wait
for inquiries, and pressed on with the stream to the gates of the
courtyard, where they found warders placed, to keep back the dense
throng of people.  At the mention of Sir Eustace's name they readily
and respectfully admitted him and his companions into the court.

"Ha!" cried Gaston, "what means this? is there a tilt towards?  This
reminds me of the good old days, ere the Prince fell ill.  The lists,
the galleries, the ladies, the Prince's own chair of state, too!  Oh,
Sir Eustace, I could tear my hair that you cannot yet use your sword
arm!"

"Can it be a challenge on the part of Fulk?"  said Eustace, "or a
reply to yours, Arthur?  Yet that can hardly be.  And see, there is
no barrier in the midst, only a huge block.  What can be intended?"

"I do not see Agnes among the ladies in the galleries," said Arthur,
looking up as eagerly, and more openly, than his uncle was doing.
"And oh, here comes the Princess,--yes, and Lord Edward and little
Lord Richard with her!  And here is the Prince himself leaning on
the Earl of Cambridge!  Uncle Eustace, Lord Edward is beckoning to
me!  May I run to him?"

"Come with me, since I must present myself," said Eustace,
dismounting, as one of the Prince's Squires held his horse.

"And, oh! who is yonder dark-browed dwarfish Knight at the Prince's
right hand?" cried Arthur.

Eustace could scarcely believe his eyes, as he looked where the
boy pointed.

The royal party were now seated in full array on their raised
platform; the Prince upon his chair of state, with more brightness
in his eye and of vigour in his movements than when Eustace had
last seen him; and at his side sat his wife,--her features still
retaining the majestic beauty of Joan Plantagenet, the Fair Maid
of Kent--but worn and faded with anxiety.  She watched her princely
Lord with an eye full of care, and could scarcely spare attention
for the lovely child who clung to her side, and whose brilliantly
fair complexion, wavy flaxen hair, high brow, and perfectly
formed though infantine features, already promised that remarkable
beauty which distinguished the countenance of Richard II.  On the
other side of the Prince sat his sister-in-law, the Countess of
Cambridge, a Spanish Infanta; and her husband, Edmund, afterwards
Duke of York, was beside the Princess of Wales.  But more wonderful
than all, among them stood the Constable of France.  The two boys,
Prince Edward and his cousin Henry of Lancaster, were stationed
as pages on each side of the Princess, but as their play-fellow,
Arthur, advanced with his uncle, they both sprang down the steps
of the gallery to meet him, and each took a hand.  Edward, however,
first bethinking himself of the respect which, Prince as he was,
he owed to a belted Knight, made his reverence to Sir Eustace, who,
at a sign from the Prince of Wales, mounted the steps and bent his
knee to the ground before him.

"Nay, Sir Eustace,: said the Prince, bending forward, "it is rather
I who should kneel to you for pardon; I have used you ill, Eustace,
and, I fear me, transgressed the pledge which I gave to your brother
on the plain of Navaretta."

"Oh, say not so, my gracious liege," said Eustace, as tears gathered
in his eyes,--"it was but that your noble ear was deceived by the
slanders of my foes!"

"True, Sir Eustace--yet, once, Edward of England would not have heard
a slanderous tale against one of his well-proved Knights without
sifting it well.  But I am not as once I was--sickness hath unnerved
me, and, I fear me, hath often led me to permit what may have dimmed
my fame.  Who would have dared to tell me that I should suffer my
castles to be made into traps for my faithful Knights?  And now, Sir
Eustace, that I am about to repair my injustice towards you, let me
feel, as a man whose account for this world must ere long be closed,
that I have your forgiveness."

The Prince took the hand of the young Knight, who struggled hard
with his emotion.  "And here is another friend," he added--"a firmer
friend, though foe, than you have found some others."

"Well met, my chivalrous godson," said the Constable du Guesclin,
holding out his hand.  "I rejoice that my neighbour, Oliver, did
not put an end to your _faits d'armes_."

"I marvel--," Eustace hardly found words between wonder and
condolence.  The Prince caught the import of his hesitating
sentences.

"He thinks you a prisoner, Sir Bertrand," he said.  "No, Sir Eustace,
Messire le Connetable is captive only in his good-will to you.  I
wrote, to pray him to send me his witness to those last words of
your brother, since you had ever appealed to him, and he replied
by an offer, which does us too much honour, to become our guest."

"I am no scribe, apart from my fairy Dame Tiphaine," said Du Guesclin,
abruptly.  "It cost me less pains to ride hither,--besides that I
longed to renew my old English acquaintances, and see justice done
to you, fair godson."

"Ha!  Sir Bertrand, thou recreant!--so no other spell drew thee
hither?  Thou hast no gallantry even for such an occasion as this!"
said a gay voice.

"How should the ill-favoured Knight deal in gallantries?" said Du
Guesclin, turning.  "Here is one far fitter for your Grace's eyes."

"And you, discourteous Constable, were keeping him for you own behoof,
when all my maidens have been speaking for weeks of no name but the
Knight of the beleaguered Castle!"

And Eustace had to kiss the fair hand of the Princess of Wales.

In the meantime, the three boys were whispering together.  "It is
all well, all gloriously well, is it not, Arthur, as I told you?"
said Edward.  "I knew my father would settle all in his own noble
fashion."

"What said the master of the Damoiseaux?"  asked Arthur, as the
sight of that severe functionary revived certain half-forgotten
terrors.

"Oh, he, the old crab-stock!" said Henry,--"he looked sour enough
at first; but Edward kept your counsel well, till you were safe at
a good distance from Bordeaux; and then, though he said somewhat
of complaining to my Lord the Prince, it was too late to mend it.
And when Sir John Chandos came back, and bade him be content, he
vowed you were enough to spoil a whole host of pages; but did not
we all wish some of our uncles would get themselves betrayed?"

"But what means all this preparation?" asked Arthur--"these lists!
Oh, surely, there is not to be a tourney, which I have so longed to
see!"

"No," said Edward, "that cannot be, my mother says, while my father
is so weakly and ill.  But there are the trumpets! you will soon
see what will befall."

And, with a loud blast of trumpets, the gorgeously arrayed heralds
rode into the court, followed by a guard of halberdiers, in the
midst of whom rode a Knight in bright armour, his visor closed,
but his shield and crest marking the Baron of Clarenham.

When the trumpets had ceased, and the procession reached the centre
of the lists, they halted, and drew up in order,--the principal
herald, Aquitaine, immediately in front of the Prince.  After
another short clear trumpet-blast, Aquitaine unrolled a parchment,
and, in a loud voice, proclaimed the confession of Fulk, Baron of
Clarenham, of his foul and unknightly conduct, in attempting to
betray the person of the good Knight and true, Eustace Lynwood,
Knight Banneret, with that of his Esquire, Gaston d'Aubricour, and
of certain other trusty and well-beloved subjects of his liege
Lord, King Edward of England, together with the fortalice, called
Chateau Norbelle, in the county of Gascogne, appertaining to my
Lord Edward, Prince of Wales and Duke of Aquitaine, into the hands
of the enemy--having for that purpose tampered with and seduced
Thibault Sanchez, Seneschal of the Castle, Tristan de la Fleche,
and certain others, who, having confessed their crime, have
received their deserts, by being hung on a gallows--upon which same
gallows it was decreed by the authority of the Prince, Duke and
Governor of Aquitaine, that the shield of Fulk de Clarenham should
be hung--he himself being degraded from the honours and privileges
of knighthood, of which he had proved himself unworthy--and his
lands forfeited to the King, to be disposed of at his pleasure.

Clarenham was then compelled to dismount from his horse, and to,
first one foot, and then the other, upon the block, where a broad
red-faced cook, raising his cleaver, cut off the golden spurs.  Sir
John Chandos, as Constable of Aquitaine, then came forward, and,
taking the shield from the arm of Clarenham, gave it, reversed,
into the hands of one of the heralds, who carried it away.  The
belt, another token of knighthood, was next unbuckled, and Chandos,
taking the sword, broke it in three pieces across his knee, saying,
"Lie there, dishonoured steel!" and throwing it down by the spurs.
Lastly, the helmet, with the baronial bars across the visor, was
removed, and thrown to the ground, leaving visible the dark
countenance, where the paleness of shame and the flush of rage
alternated.

"And now, away with the traitor, away with the recreant Knight! out
upon him!" cried in a loud voice Sir John Chandos, while the shout
was taken up by a deafening multitude of voices--in the midst of
which the degraded Knight and landless Baron made his way to the
gate, and, as he passed out, a redoubled storm of shouts and yells
arose from without.

"Out upon the traitor!" cried Harry of Lancaster with the loudest.
"Away with him!  But, Edward, and you too, Arthur, why shout you
not?  Hate you not traitors and treason?"

"I would not join my voice with the rabble," said Edward, "and it
makes me sad to see knighthood fallen.  What say you, Arthur?"

"Alas! he is my mother's kinsman," said Arthur, "and I loved his name
for her sake as for that of Agnes too.  Where is Agnes?"

"In the Convent of the Benedictine nuns," said Edward.  "But in your
ear, Arthur, what say you to our plan that she shall be heiress of
her brother's lands, on condition of her wedding--guess whom?"

"Not mine uncle!  Oh, Lord Edward, is it really so?  How rejoiced old
Ralph would be!"

"Speak not of it, Arthur--it was my mother who told me, when Agnes
craved permission to go to the Convent, and I feared she would become
one of those black-veiled nuns, and I should never see her more."

"Where is my uncle?" asked Arthur, gazing round.  "I thought he was
standing by the Lady Princess's chair--"

"He went to speak to Sir John Chandos but now," said Prince Henry,
"but I see him not.  Mark! what a lull in the sounds without!"

In fact, the various cries of execration which had assailed Fulk
Clarenham on his exit from the gates of the Castle, after sounding
more and more violent for some minutes, had suddenly died away
almost into stillness--and the cause was one little guessed at
within the court.  The unhappy Fulk was moving onwards, almost as
in a dream, without aim or object, other than to seek a refuge
from the thousand eyes that marked his disgrace, and the tongues
that upbraided him with it; but, in leaving the court, he entered
upon a scene where danger, as well as disgrace, was to be
apprehended.  The rabble of the town, ever pleased at the fall
of one whose station was higher than their own, mindful of unpaid
debts, and harsh and scornful demeanour, and, as natives, rejoiced
at the misfortune of a foreigner, all joined in one cry of--"Away
with the recreant Englishman!--down with him!--down with him!"
Every hand was armed with a stone, and brief would have been Fulk's
space for repentance, had not the cry in its savage tones struck
upon the ear of Eustace as he stood in the lists, receiving the
congratulations of Sir John Chandos and of other Knights, who,
with changed demeanour, came to greet the favoured hero.

"They will murder him," exclaimed Eustace; and breaking from his new
friends, he made his way to the gate, and hurried into the town, just
as Fulk had fallen to the ground, struck by a heavy stone hurled by
the hand of no other than John Ingram.  He rushed forward amid the
hail of stones, and, as he lifted Clarenham's head, called out, "How
is this!  Brave men of Bordeaux, would you become murderers!  Is this
like honourable men, to triumph over the fallen!"

They held back in amazement for a second; then, as Eustace knelt
by him and tried to recall his consciousness, murmurs arose, "Why
interferes he with our affairs?  He is English," and they all held
together.  "Another of the purse-proud English, who pay no debts,
and ruin the poor Bordelais."  "His blood we will have, if we
cannot have his money.  Away, Master Knight, be not so busy about
the traitor, if you would not partake his fate."

Eustace looked up as the stones were uplifted, and more than one Free
Companion had drawn his sword.  "Hold," he exclaimed in a clear full-
toned voice that filled every ear.  "Hold! I am Eustace Lynwood, the
Castellane of Chateau Norbelle!"

There was an instant silence.  Every one pressed forward to see him,
whose recent adventures had made him an object of much interest and
curiosity, and the attention of the crowd was entirely diverted
from the former unhappy subject of their pursuit.  Whispers passed
of "Noble Knight! flower of chivalry! how generous and Christian-
like he bends over his enemy!  Nay, if he revenge not himself, what
right have we?  And see, his arm is still in a scarf from the
treachery of those villains!  Well, I would yet give yon ruffian
his desert."

By this time Eustace having observed Ingram among the crowd, summoned
him to his side, and at the same time courteously craving the aid of
one of the by-standers (who, of course, though collectively lions,
were individually lambs), succeeded in conveying Clarenham, whose
senses had so far returned that he was able to rise with their
assistance, to the door of a monastery chapel, the porch of which
opened upon the street.

"Holy Fathers," said Eustace, "I crave the protection of the Church
for an unhappy, and, I trust, a penitent man, praying you will tend
him well to aid and relief alike of body and soul, until you hear
from me again."

With these words he quitted the chapel before his late enemy had
sufficiently recovered his faculties to recognize his preserver.

Leonard Ashton, for whom Eustace inquired, had, it appeared, saved
himself by making full confession, and had been sent home, in deep
disgrace, though spared public dishonour.

It was some few days after these events that the presence of Lady
Agnes de Clarenham was requested in the parlour of her nunnery,
which was some miles distant from Bordeaux, by a person who, as
the porteress informed her, was the bearer of a message from the
Princess of Wales.  She descended accordingly, but her surprise was
great on beholding, instead of one of the female attendants of her
mistress as she had expected, the slender figure of the young Knight
with whom she had last parted at the hostelry.

Her first feeling was not one of kindness towards him.  Agnes had
indeed grieved and felt indignant when she saw him oppressed and
in danger from  her brother's treachery, but, in these days of
favour, she could not regard with c