 Aurungzebe was a
munificent protector,[12] was about as disinterested as that of the
goldsmith who fell in love with the diamond eyes of the idol of
Jaghernaut.[13]

During the first days of their journey, LALLA ROOKH, who had passed all
her life within the shadow of the Royal Gardens of Delhi,[14] found
enough in the beauty of the scenery through which they passed to interest
her mind, and delight her imagination; and when at evening or in the heat
of the day they turned off from the high road to those retired and
romantic places which had been selected for her encampments,--sometimes,
on the banks of a small rivulet, as clear as the waters of the Lake of
Pearl;[15] sometimes under the sacred shade of a Banyan tree, from which
the view opened upon a glade covered with antelopes; and often in those
hidden, embowered spots, described by one from the Isles of the West,
[16]as "places of melancholy, delight, and safety, where all the company
around was wild peacocks and turtle-doves;"--she felt a charm in these
scenes, so lovely and so new to her, which, for a time, made her
indifferent to every other amusement. But LALLA ROOKH was young, and the
young love variety; nor could the conversation of her Ladies and the Great
Chamberlain, FADLADEEN,(the only persons, of course, admitted to her
pavilion.) sufficiently enliven those many vacant hours, which were
devoted neither to the pillow nor the palankeen. There was a little
Persian slave who sung sweetly to the Vina, and who, now and then, lulled
the Princess to sleep with the ancient ditties of her country, about the
loves of Wavnak and Ezra,[17] the fair-haired Zal and his mistress
Rodahver,[18] not forgetting the combat of Rustam with the terrible White
Demon.[19] At other times she was amused by those graceful dancing-girls
of Delhi, who had been permitted by the Bramins of the Great Pagoda to
attend her, much to the horror of the good Mussulman FADLADEEN, who could
see nothing graceful or agreeable in idolaters, and to whom the very
tinkling of their golden anklets[20] was an abomination.

But these and many other diversions were repeated till they lost all their
charm, and the nights and noon-days were beginning to move heavily, when,
at length, it was recollected that, among the attendants sent by the
bridegroom, was a young poet of Cashmere, much celebrated throughout the
Valley for his manner of reciting the Stories of the East, on whom his
Royal Master had conferred the privilege of being admitted to the pavilion
of the Princess, that he might help to beguile the tediousness of the
journey by some of his most agreeable recitals. At the mention of a poet,
FADLADEEN elevated his critical eyebrows, and, having refreshed his
faculties with a dose of that delicious opium which is distilled from the
black poppy of the Thebais, gave orders for the minstrel to be forthwith
introduced into the presence.

The Princess, who had once in her life seen a poet from behind the screens
of gauze in her father's hall, and had conceived from that specimen no
very favorable ideas of the Caste, expected but little in this new
exhibition to interest her;--she felt inclined, however, to alter her
opinion on the very first appearance of FERAMORZ. He was a youth about
LALLA ROOKH'S own age, and graceful as that idol of women,
Crishna,[21]--such as he appears to their young imaginations, heroic,
beautiful, breathing music from his very eyes, and exalting the religion
of his worshippers into love. His dress was simple, yet not without some
marks of costliness; and the Ladies of the Princess were not long in
discovering that the cloth, which encircled his high Tartarian cap, was of
the most delicate kind that the shawl-goats of Tibet supply.[22] Here and
there, too, over his vest, which was confined by a flowered girdle of
Kashan, hung strings of fine pearl, disposed with an air of studied
negligence;--nor did the exquisite embroidery of his sandals escape the
observation of these fair critics; who, however they might give way to
FADLADEEN upon the unimportant topics of religion and government, had the
spirit of martyrs in everything relating to such momentous matters as
jewels and embroidery.

For the purpose of relieving the pauses of recitation by music, the young
Cashmerian held in his hand a kitar;--such as, in old times, the Arab
maids of the West used to listen to by moonlight in the gardens of the
Alhambra--and, having premised, with much humility, that the story he was
about to relate was founded on the adventures of that Veiled Prophet of
Khorassan,[23] who, in the year of the Hegira 163, created such alarm
throughout the Eastern Empire, made an obeisance to the Princess, and thus
began:--


THE VEILED PROPHET OF KHORASSAN.[24]


In that delightful Province of the Sun,
The first of Persian lands he shines upon.
Where all the loveliest children of his beam,
Flowerets and fruits, blush over every stream,[25]
And, fairest of all streams, the MURGA roves
Among MEROU'S[26] bright palaces and groves;--
There on that throne, to which the blind belief
Of millions raised him, sat the Prophet-Chief,
The Great MOKANNA. O'er his features hung
The Veil, the Silver Veil, which he had flung
In mercy there, to hide from mortal sight
His dazzling brow, till man could bear its light.
For, far less luminous, his votaries said,
Were even the gleams, miraculously shed
O'er MOUSSA'S[27] cheek, when down the Mount he trod
All glowing from the presence of his God!

  On either side, with ready hearts and hands,
His chosen guard of bold Believers stands;
Young fire-eyed disputants, who deem their swords,
On points of faith, more eloquent than words;

And such their zeal, there's not a youth with brand
Uplifted there, but at the Chief's command,
Would make his own devoted heart its sheath,
And bless the lips that doomed so dear a death!
In hatred to the Caliph's hue of night,[28]
Their vesture, helms and all, is snowy white;
Their weapons various--some equipt for speed,
With javelins of the light Kathaian reed;[29]
Or bows of buffalo horn and shining quivers
Filled with the stems[30]
that bloom on IRAN'S rivers;[31]
While some, for war's more terrible attacks,
Wield the huge mace and ponderous battle-axe;
And as they wave aloft in morning's beam
The milk-white plumage of their helms, they seem
Like a chenar-tree grove[32] when winter throws
O'er all its tufted heads his feathery snows.

  Between the porphyry pillars that uphold
The rich moresque-work of the roof of gold,
Aloft the Haram's curtained galleries rise,
Where thro' the silken net-work, glancing eyes,
From time to time, like sudden gleams that glow
Thro' autumn clouds, shine o'er the pomp below.--
What impious tongue, ye blushing saints, would dare
To hint that aught but Heaven hath placed you there?
Or that the loves of this light world could bind,
In their gross chain, your Prophet's soaring mind?
No--wrongful thought!--commissioned from above
To people Eden's bowers with shapes of love,
(Creatures so bright, that the same lips and eyes
They wear on earth will serve in Paradise,)
There to recline among Heaven's native maids,
And crown the Elect with bliss that never fades--
Well hath the Prophet-Chief his bidding done;
And every beauteous race beneath the sun,
From those who kneel at BRAHMA'S burning fount,[33]
To the fresh nymphs bounding o'er YEMEN'S mounts;
From PERSIA'S eyes of full and fawnlike ray,
To the small, half-shut glances of KATHAY;[34]
And GEORGIA'S bloom, and AZAB'S darker smiles,
And the gold ringlets of the Western Isles;
All, all are there;--each Land its flower hath given,
To form that fair young Nursery for Heaven!

  But why this pageant now? this armed array?
What triumph crowds the rich Divan to-day
With turbaned heads of every hue and race,
Bowing before that veiled and awful face,
Like tulip-beds,[35] of different shape and dyes,
Bending beneath the invisible West-wind's sighs!
What new-made mystery now for Faith to sign
And blood to seal, as genuine and divine,
What dazzling mimicry of God's own power
Hath the bold Prophet planned to grace this hour?

  Not such the pageant now, tho' not less proud;
Yon warrior youth advancing from the crowd
With silver bow, with belt of broidered crape
And fur-bound bonnet of Bucharian shape.[36]
So fiercely beautiful in form and eye,
Like war's wild planet in a summer sky;
That youth to-day,--a proselyte, worth hordes
Of cooler spirits and less practised swords,--
Is come to join, all bravery and belief,
The creed and standard of the heaven-sent Chief.

  Tho' few his years, the West already knows
Young AZIM'S fame;--beyond the Olympian snows
Ere manhood darkened o'er his downy cheek,
O'erwhelmed in fight and captive to the Greek,[37]
He lingered there, till peace dissolved his chains;--
Oh! who could even in bondage tread the plains
Of glorious GREECE nor feel his spirit rise
Kindling within him? who with heart and eyes
Could walk where Liberty had been nor see
The shining foot-prints of her Deity,
Nor feel those god-like breathings in the air
Which mutely told her spirit had been there?
Not he, that youthful warrior,--no, too well
For his soul's quiet worked the awakening spell;
And now, returning to his own dear land,
Full of those dreams of good that, vainly grand,
Haunt the young heart,--proud views of human-kind,
Of men to Gods exalted and refined,--
False views like that horizon's fair deceit
Where earth and heaven but _seem_, alas, to meet!--
Soon as he heard an Arm Divine was raised
To right the nations, and beheld, emblazed
On the white flag MOKANNA'S host unfurled,
Those words of sunshine, "Freedom to the World,"
At once his faith, his sword, his soul obeyed
The inspiring summons; every chosen blade
That fought beneath that banner's sacred text
Seemed doubly edged for this world and the next;
And ne'er did Faith with her smooth bandage bind
Eyes more devoutly willing to be blind,
In virtue's cause;--never was soul inspired
With livelier trust in what it most desired,
Than his, the enthusiast there, who kneeling, pale
With pious awe before that Silver Veil,
Believes the form to which he bends his knee
Some pure, redeeming angel sent to free
This fettered world from every bond and stain,
And bring its primal glories back again!

Low as young AZIM knelt, that motley crowd
Of all earth's nations sunk the knee and bowed,
With shouts of "ALLA!" echoing long and loud;
Which high in air, above the Prophet's head,
Hundreds of banners to the sunbeam spread
Waved, like the wings of the white birds that fan
The flying throne of star-taught SOLIMAN.[38]
Then thus he spoke:-"Stranger, tho' new the frame
"Thy soul inhabits now. I've trackt its flame
"For many an age,[39] in every chance and change
"Of that existence, thro' whose varied range,--
"As thro' a torch-race where from hand to hand
"The flying youths transmit their shining brand,
"From frame to frame the unextinguisht soul
"Rapidly passes till it reach the goal!

"Nor think 'tis only the gross Spirits warmed
"With duskier fire and for earth's medium formed
"That run this course;--Beings the most divine
"Thus deign thro' dark mortality to shine.
"Such was the Essence that in ADAM dwelt,
"To which all Heaven except the Proud One knelt:[40]
"Such the refined Intelligence that glowed
"In MOUSSA'S[41] frame,--and thence descending flowed
"Thro' many a Prophet's breast;--in ISSA[42] shone
"And in MOHAMMED burned; till hastening on.
"(As a bright river that from fall to fall
"In many a maze descending bright thro' all,
"Finds some fair region where, each labyrinth past,
"In one full lake of light it rests at last)
"That Holy Spirit settling calm and free
"From lapse or shadow centres all in me!

Again throughout the assembly at these words
Thousands of voices rung: the warrior's swords
Were pointed up at heaven; a sudden wind
In the open banners played, and from behind
Those Persian hangings that but ill could screen
The Harem's loveliness, white hands were seen
Waving embroidered scarves whose motion gave
A perfume forth--like those the Houris wave
When beckoning to their bowers the immortal Brave.

"But these," pursued the Chief "are truths sublime,
"That claim a holier mood and calmer time
"Than earth allows us now;--this sword must first
"The darkling prison-house of mankind burst.
"Ere Peace can visit them or Truth let in
"Her wakening daylight on a world of sin.
"But then,--celestial warriors, then when all
"Earth's shrines and thrones before our banner fall,
"When the glad Slave shall at these feet lay down
"His broken chain, the tyrant Lord his crown,
"The Priest his book, the Conqueror his wreath,
"And from the lips of Truth one mighty breath
"Shall like a whirlwind scatter in its breeze
"That whole dark pile of human mockeries:--
"Then shall the reign of mind commence on earth,
"And starting fresh as from a second birth,
"Man in the sunshine of the world's new spring
"Shall walk transparent like some holy thing!
"Then too your Prophet from his angel brow
"Shall cast the Veil that hides its splendors now,
"And gladdened Earth shall thro' her wide expanse
"Bask in the glories of this countenance!

"For thee, young warrior, welcome!--thou hast yet
"Some tasks to learn, some frailties to forget,
"Ere the white war-plume o'er thy brow can wave;--
"But, once my own, mine all till in the grave!"

The pomp is at an end--the crowds are gone--
Each ear and heart still haunted by the tone
Of that deep voice, which thrilled like ALLA'S own!
The Young all dazzled by the plumes and lances,
The glittering throne and Haram's half-caught glances,
The Old deep pondering on the promised reign
Of peace and truth, and all the female train
Ready to risk their eyes could they but gaze
A moment on that brow's miraculous blaze!

But there was one among the chosen maids
Who blushed behind the gallery's silken shades,
One, to whose soul the pageant of to-day
Has been like death:--you saw her pale dismay,
Ye wondering sisterhood, and heard the burst
Of exclamation from her lips when first
She saw that youth, too well, too dearly known,
Silently kneeling at the Prophet's throne.

Ah ZELICA! there was a time when bliss
Shone o'er thy heart from every look of his,
When but to see him, hear him, breathe the air
In which he dwelt was thy soul's fondest prayer;
When round him hung such a perpetual spell,
Whate'er he did, none ever did so well.
Too happy days! when, if he touched a flower
Or gem of thine, 'twas sacred from that hour;
When thou didst study him till every tone
And gesture and dear look became thy own.--
Thy voice like his, the changes of his face
In thine reflected with still lovelier grace,
Like echo, sending back sweet music, fraught
With twice the aerial sweetness it had brought!
Yet now he comes,--brighter than even he
E'er beamed before,--but, ah! not bright for thee;
No--dread, unlookt for, like a visitant
From the other world he comes as if to haunt
Thy guilty soul with dreams of lost delight,
Long lost to all but memory's aching sight:--
Sad dreams! as when the Spirit of our Youth
Returns in sleep, sparkling with all the truth
And innocence once ours and leads us back,
In mournful mockery o'er the shining track
Of our young life and points out every ray
Of hope and peace we've lost upon the way!

  Once happy pair!--In proud BOKHARA'S groves,
Who had not heard of their first youthful loves?
Born by that ancient flood,[43]which from its spring
In the dark Mountains swiftly wandering,
Enriched by every pilgrim brook that shines
With relics from BUCHARIA'S ruby mines.
And, lending to the CASPIAN half its strength,
In the cold Lake of Eagles sinks at length;--
There, on the banks of that bright river born,
The flowers that hung above its wave at morn
Blest not the waters as they murmured by
With holier scent and lustre than the sigh
And virgin-glance of first affection cast
Upon their youth's smooth current as it past!
But war disturbed this vision,--far away
From her fond eyes summoned to join the array
Of PERSIA'S warriors on the hills of THRACE,
The youth exchanged his sylvan dwelling-place
For the rude tent and war-field's deathful clash;
His ZELICA'S sweet glances for the flash
Of Grecian wild-fire, and Love's gentle chains
For bleeding bondage on BYZANTIUM'S plains.

  Month after month in widowhood of soul
Drooping the maiden saw two summers roll
Their suns away--but, ah, how cold and dim
Even summer suns when not beheld with him!
From time to time ill-omened rumors came
Like spirit-tongues muttering the sick man's name
Just ere he dies:--at length those sounds of dread
Fell withering on her soul, "AZIM is dead!"
Oh Grief beyond all other griefs when fate
First leaves the young heart lone and desolate
In the wide world without that only tie
For which it loved to live or feared to die;--
Lorn as the hung-up lute, that near hath spoken
Since the sad day its master-chord was broken!

Fond maid, the sorrow of her soul was such,
Even reason sunk,--blighted beneath its touch;
And tho' ere long her sanguine spirit rose
Above the first dead pressure of its woes,
Tho' health and bloom returned, the delicate chain
Of thought once tangled never cleared again.
Warm, lively, soft as in youth's happiest day,
The mind was still all there, but turned astray,--
A wandering bark upon whose pathway shone
All stars of heaven except the guiding one!
Again she smiled, nay, much and brightly smiled,
But 'twas a lustre, strange, unreal, wild;
And when she sung to her lute's touching strain,
'Twas like the notes, half ecstasy, half pain,
The bulbul[44] utters ere her soul depart,
When, vanquisht by some minstrel's powerful art,
She dies upon the lute whose sweetness broke her heart!

Such was the mood in which that mission found,
Young ZELICA,--that mission which around
The Eastern world in every region blest
With woman's smile sought out its loveliest
To grace that galaxy of lips and eyes
Which the Veiled Prophet destined for the skies:--
And such quick welcome as a spark receives
Dropt on a bed of Autumn's withered leaves,
Did every tale of these enthusiasts find
In the wild maiden's sorrow-blighted mind.
All fire at once the maddening zeal she caught:--
Elect of Paradise! blest, rapturous thought!
Predestined bride, in heaven's eternal dome,
Of some brave youth--ha! durst they say "of _some_?"
No--of the one, one only object traced
In her heart's core too deep to be effaced;
The one whose memory, fresh as life, is twined
With every broken link of her lost mind;
Whose image lives tho' Reason's self be wreckt
Safe mid the ruins of her intellect!

  Alas, poor ZELICA! it needed all
The fantasy which held thy mind in thrall
To see in that gay Haram's glowing maids
A sainted colony for Eden's shades;
Or dream that he,--of whose unholy flame
Thou wert too soon the victim,--shining came
From Paradise to people its pure sphere
With souls like thine which he hath ruined here!
No--had not reason's light totally set,
And left thee dark thou hadst an amulet
In the loved image graven on thy heart
Which would have saved thee from the tempter's art,
And kept alive in all its bloom of breath
That purity whose fading is love's death!--
But lost, inflamed,--a restless zeal took place
Of the mild virgin's still and feminine grace;
First of the Prophets favorites, proudly first
In zeal and charms, too well the Impostor nurst
Her soul's delirium in whose active flame,
Thus lighting up a young, luxuriant frame,
He saw more potent sorceries to bind
To his dark yoke the spirits of mankind,
More subtle chains than hell itself e'er twined.
No art was spared, no witchery;--all the skill
His demons taught him was employed to fill
Her mind with gloom and ecstasy by turns--
That gloom, thro' which Frenzy but fiercer burns,
That ecstasy which from the depth of sadness
Glares like the maniac's moon whose light is madness!

  'Twas from a brilliant banquet where the sound
Of poesy and music breathed around,
Together picturing to her mind and ear
The glories of that heaven, her destined sphere,
Where all was pure, where every stain that lay
Upon the spirit's light should pass away,
And realizing more than youthful love
E'er wisht or dreamed, she should for ever rove
Thro' fields of fragrance by her AZIM'S side,
His own blest, purified, eternal bride!--
T was from a scene, a witching trance like this,
He hurried her away, yet breathing bliss,
To the dim charnel-house;--thro' all its steams
Of damp and death led only by those gleams
Which foul Corruption lights, as with design
To show the gay and proud _she_ too can shine--
And passing on thro' upright ranks of Dead
Which to the maiden, doubly crazed by dread,
Seemed, thro' the bluish death-light round them cast,
To move their lips in mutterings as she past--
There in that awful place, when each had quaft
And pledged in silence such a fearful draught,
Such--oh! the look and taste of that red bowl
Will haunt her till she dies--he bound her soul
By a dark oath, in hell's own language framed,
Never, while earth his mystic presence claimed,
While the blue arch of day hung o'er them both,
Never, by that all-imprecating oath,
In joy or sorrow from his side to sever.--
She swore and the wide charnel echoed "Never, never!"

  From that dread hour, entirely, wildly given
To him and--she believed, lost maid!--to heaven;
Her brain, her heart, her passions all inflamed,
How proud she stood, when in full Haram named
The Priestess of the Faith!--how flasht her eyes
With light, alas, that was not of the skies,
When round in trances only less than hers
She saw the Haram kneel, her prostrate worshippers.
Well might MOKANNA think that form alone
Had spells enough to make the world his own:--
Light, lovely limbs to which the spirit's play
Gave motion, airy as the dancing spray,
When from its stem the small bird wings away;
Lips in whose rosy labyrinth when she smiled
The soul was lost, and blushes, swift and wild
As are the momentary meteors sent
Across the uncalm but beauteous firmament.
And then her look--oh! where's the heart so wise
Could unbewildered meet those matchless eyes?
Quick, restless, strange, but exquisite withal,
Like those of angels just before their fall;
Now shadowed with the shames of earth--now crost
By glimpses of the Heaven her heart had lost;
In every glance there broke without control,
The flashes of a bright but troubled soul,
Where sensibility still wildly played
Like lightning round the ruins it had made!

  And such was now young ZELICA--so changed
From her who some years since delighted ranged
The almond groves that shade BOKHARA'S tide
All life and bliss with AZIM by her side!
So altered was she now, this festal day,
When, mid the proud Divan's dazzling array,
The vision of that Youth whom she had loved,
Had wept as dead, before her breathed and moved;--
When--bright, she thought, as if from Eden's track
But half-way trodden, he had wandered back
Again to earth, glistening with Eden's light--
Her beauteous AZIM shone before her sight.

  O Reason! who shall say what spells renew,
When least we look for it, thy broken clew!
Thro' what small vistas o'er the darkened brain
Thy intellectual day-beam bursts again;
And how like forts to which beleaguerers win
Unhoped-for entrance thro' some friend within,
One clear idea, wakened in the breast
By memory's magic, lets in all the rest.
Would it were thus, unhappy girl, with thee!
But tho' light came, it came but partially;
Enough to show the maze, in which thy sense
Wandered about,--but not to guide it thence;
Enough to glimmer o'er the yawning wave,
But not to point the harbor which might save.
Hours of delight and peace, long left behind,
With that dear form came rushing o'er her mind;
But, oh! to think how deep her soul had gone
In shame and falsehood since those moments shone;
And then her oath--_there_ madness lay again,
And shuddering, back she sunk into her chain
Of mental darkness, as if blest to flee
From light whose every glimpse was agony!
Yet _one_ relief this glance of former years
Brought mingled with its pain,--tears, floods of tears,
Long frozen at her heart, but now like rills
Let loose in spring-time from the snowy hills,
And gushing warm after a sleep of frost,
Thro' valleys where their flow had long been lost.

  Sad and subdued, for the first time her frame
Trembled with horror when the summons came
(A summons proud and rare, which all but she,
And she, till now, had heard with ecstasy,)
To meet MOKANNA at his place of prayer,
A garden oratory cool and fair
By the stream's side, where still at close of day
The Prophet of the Veil retired to pray,
Sometimes alone--but oftener far with one,
One chosen nymph to share his orison.

  Of late none found such favor in his sight
As the young Priestess; and tho', since that night
When the death-cavorns echoed every tone
Of the dire oath that made her all his own,
The Impostor sure of his infatuate prize
Had more than once thrown off his soul's disguise,
And uttered such unheavenly, monstrous things,
As even across the desperate wanderings
Of a weak intellect, whose lamp was out,
Threw startling shadows of dismay and doubt;--
Yet zeal, ambition, her tremendous vow,
The thought, still haunting her, of that bright brow,
Whose blaze, as yet from mortal eye concealed,
Would soon, proud triumph! be to her revealed,
To her alone;--and then the hope, most dear,
Most wild of all, that her transgression here
Was but a passage thro' earth's grosser fire,
From which the spirit would at last aspire,
Even purer than before,--as perfumes rise
Thro' flame and smoke, most welcome to the skies--
And that when AZIM's fond, divine embrace
Should circle her in heaven, no darkening trace
Would on that bosom he once loved remain.
But all be bright, be pure, be _his_ again!--
These were the wildering dreams, whose curst deceit
Had chained her soul beneath the tempter's feet,
And made her think even damning falsehood sweet.
But now that Shape, which had appalled her view,
That Semblance--oh how terrible, if true!
Which came across her frenzy's full career
With shock of consciousness, cold, deep, severe.
As when in northern seas at midnight dark
An isle of ice encounters some swift bark,
And startling all its wretches from their sleep
By one cold impulse hurls them to the deep;--
So came that shock not frenzy's self could bear,
And waking up each long-lulled image there,
But checkt her headlong soul to sink it in despair!

  Wan and dejected, thro' the evening dusk,
She now went slowly to that small kiosk,
Where, pondering alone his impious schemes,
MOKANNA waited her--too wrapt in dreams
Of the fair-ripening future's rich success,
To heed the sorrow, pale and spiritless,
That sat upon his victim's downcast brow,
Or mark how slow her step, how altered now
From the quick, ardent Priestess, whose light bound
Came like a spirit's o'er the unechoing ground,--
From that wild ZELICA whose every glance
Was thrilling fire, whose every thought a trance!

  Upon his couch the Veiled MOKANNA lay,
While lamps around--not such as lend their ray,
Glimmering and cold, to those who nightly pray
In holy KOOM,[45] or MECCA'S dim arcades,--
But brilliant, soft, such lights as lovely maids.
Look loveliest in, shed their luxurious glow
Upon his mystic Veil's white glittering flow.
Beside him, 'stead of beads and books of prayer,
Which the world fondly thought he mused on there,
Stood Vases, filled with KISIIMEE'S[46] golden wine,
And the red weepings of the SHIRAZ vine;
Of which his curtained lips full many a draught
Took zealously, as if each drop they quaft
Like ZEMZEM'S Spring of Holiness[47] had power
To freshen the soul's virtues into flower!
And still he drank and pondered--nor could see
The approaching maid, so deep his revery;
At length with fiendish laugh like that which broke
From EBLIS at the Fall of Man he spoke:--
"Yes, ye vile race, for hell's amusement given,
"Too mean for earth, yet claiming kin with heaven;
"God's images, forsooth!--such gods as he
"Whom INDIA serves, the monkey deity;[48]
"Ye creatures of a breath, proud things of clay,
"To whom if LUCIFER, as gran-dams say,
"Refused tho' at the forfeit of heaven's light
"To bend in worship, LUCIFER was right!
"Soon shall I plant this foot upon the neck
"Of your foul race and without fear or check,
"Luxuriating in hate, avenge my shame,
"My deep-felt, long-nurst loathing of man's name!--
"Soon at the head of myriads, blind and fierce
"As hooded falcons, thro' the universe
"I'll sweep my darkening, desolating way,
"Weak man my instrument, curst man my prey!

  "Ye wise, ye learned, who grope your dull way on
"By the dim twinkling gleams of ages gone,
"Like superstitious thieves who think the light
"From dead men's marrow guides them best at night[49]--
"Ye shall have honors--wealth--yes, Sages, yes--
"I know, grave fools, your wisdom's nothingness;
"Undazzled it can track yon starry sphere,
"But a gilt stick, a bauble blinds it here.
"How I shall laugh, when trumpeted along
"In lying speech and still more lying song,
"By these learned slaves, the meanest of the throng;
"Their wits brought up, their wisdom shrunk so small,
"A sceptre's puny point can wield it all!

  "Ye too, believers of incredible creeds,
"Whose faith enshrines the monsters which it breeds;
"Who, bolder even than NEMROD, think to rise
"By nonsense heapt on nonsense to the skies;
"Ye shall have miracles, ay, sound ones too,
"Seen, heard, attested, everything--but true.
"Your preaching zealots too inspired to seek
"One grace of meaning for the things they speak:
"Your martyrs ready to shed out their blood,
"For truths too heavenly to be understood;
"And your State Priests, sole venders of the lore,
"That works salvation;--as, on AVA'S shore,
"Where none _but_ priests are privileged to trade
"In that best marble of which Gods are made[50];
"They shall have mysteries--ay precious stuff
"For knaves to thrive by--mysteries enough;
"Dark, tangled doctrines, dark as fraud can weave,
"Which simple votaries shall on trust receive,
"While craftier feign belief till they believe.
"A Heaven too ye must have, ye lords of dust,--
"A splendid Paradise,--pure souls, ye must:
"That Prophet ill sustains his holy call,
"Who finds not heavens to suit the tastes of all;
"Houris for boys, omniscience for sages,
"And wings and glories for all ranks and ages.
"Vain things!--as lust or vanity inspires,
"The heaven of each is but what each desires,
"And, soul or sense, whate'er the object be,
"Man would be man to all eternity!
"So let him--EBLIS! grant this crowning curse,
"But keep him what he is, no Hell were worse."

  "Oh my lost soul!" exclaimed the shuddering maid,
Whose ears had drunk like poison all he said:
MOKANNA started--not abasht, afraid,--
He knew no more of fear than one who dwells
Beneath the tropics knows of icicles!
But in those dismal words that reached his ear,
"Oh my lost soul!" there was a sound so drear,
So like that voice among the sinful dead
In which the legend o'er Hell's Gate is read,
That, new as 'twas from her whom naught could dim
Or sink till now, it startled even him.

  "Ha, my fair Priestess!"--thus, with ready wile,
The impostor turned to greet her--"thou whose smile
"Hath inspiration in its rosy beam
"Beyond the Enthusiast's hope or Prophet's dream,
"Light of the Faith! who twin'st religion's zeal
"So close with love's, men know not which they feel,
"Nor which to sigh for, in their trance of heart,
"The heaven thou preachest or the heaven thou art!
"What should I be without thee? without thee
"How dull were power, how joyless victory!
"Tho' borne by angels, if that smile of thine
"Blest not my banner 'twere but half divine.
"But--why so mournful, child? those eyes that shone
"All life last night--what!--is their glory gone?
"Come, come--this morn's fatigue hath made them pale,
"They want rekindling--suns themselves would fail
"Did not their comets bring, as I to thee,
"From light's own fount supplies of brilliancy.
"Thou seest this cup--no juice of earth is here,
"But the pure waters of that upper sphere,
"Whose rills o'er ruby beds and topaz flow,
"Catching the gem's bright color as they go.
"Nightly my Genii come and fill these urns--
"Nay, drink--in every drop life's essence burns;
"'Twill make that soul all fire, those eyes all light--
"Come, come, I want thy loveliest smiles to-night:
"There is a youth--why start?--thou saw'st him then;
"Lookt he not nobly? such the godlike men,
"Thou'lt have to woo thee in the bowers above;--
"Tho' _he_, I fear, hath thoughts too stern for love,
"Too ruled by that cold enemy of bliss
"The world calls virtue--we must conquer this;
"Nay, shrink not, pretty sage! 'tis not for thee
"To scan the mazes of Heaven's mystery:
"The steel must pass thro' fire, ere it can yield
"Fit instruments for mighty hands to wield.
"This very night I mean to try the art
"Of powerful beauty on that warrior's heart.
"All that my Haram boasts of bloom and wit,
"Of skill and charms, most rare and exquisite,
"Shall tempt the boy;--young MIRZALA'S blue eyes
"Whose sleepy lid like snow on violets lies;
"AROUYA'S cheeks warm as a spring-day sun
"And lips that like the seal of SOLOMON
"Have magic in their pressure; ZEBA'S lute,
"And LILLA'S dancing feet that gleam and shoot
"Rapid and white as sea-birds o'er the deep--
"All shall combine their witching powers to steep
"My convert's spirit in that softening trance,
"From which to heaven is but the next advance;--
"That glowing, yielding fusion of the breast.
"On which Religion stamps her image best.
"But hear me, Priestess!--tho' each nymph of these
"Hath some peculiar, practised power to please,
"Some glance or step which at the mirror tried
"First charms herself, then all the world beside:
"There still wants _one_ to make the victory sure,
"One who in every look joins every lure,
"Thro' whom all beauty's beams concentred pass,
"Dazzling and warm as thro' love's burning glass;
"Whose gentle lips persuade without a word,
"Whose words, even when unmeaning, are adored.
"Like inarticulate breathings from a shrine,
"Which our faith takes for granted are divine!
"Such is the nymph we want, all warmth and light,
"To crown the rich temptations of to-night;
"Such the refined enchantress that must be
"This hero's vanquisher,--and thou art she!"

  With her hands claspt, her lips apart and pale,
The maid had stood gazing upon the Veil
From which these words like south winds thro' a fence
Of Kerzrah flowers, came filled with pestilence;[51]
So boldly uttered too! as if all dread
Of frowns from her, of virtuous frowns, were fled,
And the wretch felt assured that once plunged in,
Her woman's soul would know no pause in sin!

  At first, tho' mute she listened, like a dream
Seemed all he said: nor could her mind whose beam
As yet was weak penetrate half his scheme.
But when at length he uttered, "Thou art she!"
All flasht at once and shrieking piteously,
"Oh not for worlds! "she cried--"Great God! to whom
"I once knelt innocent, is this my doom?
"Are all my dreams, my hopes of heavenly bliss,
"My purity, my pride, then come to this,--
"To live, the wanton of a fiend! to be
"The pander of his guilt--oh infamy!
"And sunk myself as low as hell can steep
"In its hot flood, drag others down as deep!

"Others--ha! yes--that youth who came to-day--
"_Not_ him I loved--not him--oh! do but say,
"But swear to me this moment 'tis not he,
"And I will serve, dark fiend, will worship even thee!"

"Beware, young raving thing!--in time beware,
"Nor utter what I can not, must not bear,
"Even from _thy_ lips. Go--try thy lute, thy voice,
"The boy must feel their magic;--I rejoice
"To see those fires, no matter whence they rise,
"Once more illuming my fait Priestess' eyes;
"And should the youth whom soon those eyes shall warm,
"Indeed resemble thy dead lover's form,
"So much the happier wilt thou find thy doom,
"As one warm lover full of life and bloom
"Excels ten thousand cold ones in the tomb.
"Nay, nay, no frowning, sweet!--those eyes were made
"For love, not anger--I must be obeyed."

 "Obeyed!--'tis well--yes, I deserve it all--
"On me, on me Heaven's vengeance can not fall
"Too heavily--but AZIM, brave and true
"And beautiful--must _he_ be ruined too?
"Must _he_ too, glorious as he is, be driven
"A renegade like me from Love and Heaven?
"Like me?--weak wretch, I wrong him--not like me;
"No--he's all truth and strength and purity!
"Fill up your maddening hell-cup to the brim,
"Its witchery, fiends, will have no charm for him.
"Let loose your glowing wantons from their bowers,
"He loves, he loves, and can defy their powers!
"Wretch as I am, in his heart still I reign
"Pure as when first we met, without a stain!
"Tho' ruined--lost--my memory like a charm
"Left by the dead still keeps his soul from harm.
"Oh! never let him know how deep the brow
"He kist at parting is dishonored now;--
"Ne'er tell him how debased, how sunk is she.
"Whom once he loved--once!--_still_ loves dotingly.
"Thou laugh'st, tormentor,--what!--thou it brand my name?
"Do, do--in vain--he'll not believe my shame--
"He thinks me true, that naught beneath God's sky
"Could tempt or change me, and--so once thought I.
"But this is past--tho' worse than death my lot,
"Than hell--'tis nothing while _he_ knows it not.
"Far off to some benighted land I'll fly,
"Where sunbeam ne'er shall enter till I die;
"Where none will ask the lost one whence she came,
"But I may fade and fall without a name.
"And thou--curst man or fiend, whate'er thou art,
"Who found'st this burning plague-spot in my heart,
"And spread'st it--oh, so quick!--thro' soul and frame,
"With more than demon's art, till I became
"A loathsome thing, all pestilence, all flame!--
"If, when I'm gone"--"Hold, fearless maniac, hold,
"Nor tempt my rage--by Heaven, not half so bold
"The puny bird that dares with teasing hum
"Within the crocodile's stretched jaws to come![52]
"And so thou'lt fly, forsooth?--what!--give up all
"Thy chaste dominion in the Haram Hall,
"Where now to Love and now to ALLA given,
"Half mistress and half saint, thou hang'st as even
"As doth MEDINA'S tomb, 'twixt hell and heaven!
"Thou'lt fly?--as easily may reptiles run,
"The gaunt snake once hath fixt his eyes upon;
"As easily, when caught, the prey may be
"Pluckt from his loving folds, as thou from me.
"No, no, 'tis fixt--let good or ill betide,
"Thou'rt mine till death, till death MOKANNA'S bride!
"Hast thou forgot thy oath?"--
    At this dread word,
The Maid whose spirit his rude taunts had stirred
Thro' all its depths and roused an anger there,
That burst and lightened even thro' her despair--
Shrunk back as if a blight were in the breath
That spoke that word and staggered pale as death.

  "Yes, my sworn bride, let others seek in bowers
"Their bridal place--the charnel vault was ours!
"Instead of scents and balms, for thee and me
"Rose the rich steams of sweet mortality,
"Gay, flickering death-lights shone while we were wed.
"And for our guests a row of goodly Dead,
"(Immortal spirits in their time, no doubt,)
"From reeking shrouds upon the rite looked out!
"That oath thou heard'st more lips than thine repeat--
"That cup--thou shudderest, Lady,--was it sweet?
"That cup we pledged, the charnel's choicest wine,
"Hath bound thee--ay--body and soul all mine;
"Bound thee by chains that, whether blest or curst
"No matter now, not hell itself shall burst!
"Hence, woman, to the Haram, and look gay,
"Look wild, look--anything but sad; yet stay--
"One moment more--from what this night hath past,
"I see thou know'st me, know'st me _well_ at last.
"Ha! ha! and so, fond thing, thou thought'st all true,
"And that I love mankind?--I do, I do--
"As victims, love them; as the sea-dog dotes
"Upon the small, sweet fry that round him floats;
"Or, as the Nile-bird loves the slime that gives
"That rank and venomous food on which she lives!--

  "And, now thou seest my _soul's_ angelic hue,
"'Tis time these _features_ were uncurtained too;--
"This brow, whose light--oh rare celestial light!
"Hath been reserved to bless thy favored sight;
"These dazzling eyes before whose shrouded might
"Thou'st seen immortal Man kneel down and quake--
"Would that they _were_ heaven's lightnings for his sake!
"But turn and look--then wonder, if thou wilt,
"That I should hate, should take revenge, by guilt,
"Upon the hand whose mischief or whose mirth
"Sent me thus mained and monstrous upon earth;
"And on that race who, tho' more vile they be
"Than moving apes, are demigods to me!
"Here--judge if hell, with all its power to damn,
"Can add one curse to the foul thing I am!"--
He raised his veil--the Maid turned slowly round,
Looked at him--shrieked--and sunk upon the ground!


On their arrival next night at the place of encampment they were surprised
and delighted to find the groves all around illuminated; some artists of
Yamtcheou[53] having been sent on previously for the purpose. On each
side of the green alley, which led to the Royal Pavilion, artificial
sceneries of bamboo-work were erected, representing arches, minarets,
towers, from which hung thousands of silken lanterns painted by the most
delicate pencils of Canton.--Nothing could be more beautiful than the
leaves of the mango-trees and acacias shining in the light of the
bamboo-scenery which shed a lustre round as soft as that of the nights of
Peristan.

LALLA ROOKH, however, who was too much occupied by the sad story of ZELICA
and her lover to give a thought to anything else, except perhaps him who
related it, hurried on through this scene of splendor to her
pavilion,--greatly to the mortification of the poor artists of
Yamtcheou,--and was followed with equal rapidity by the Great Chamberlain,
cursing, as he went, that ancient Mandarin, whose parental anxiety in
lighting up the shores of the lake, where his beloved daughter had
wandered and been lost, was the origin of these fantastic Chinese
illuminations.[54]

Without a moment's delay, young FERAMORZ was introduced, and FADLADEEN,
who could never make up his mind as to the merits of a poet till he knew
the religious sect to which he belonged, was about to ask him whether he
was a Shia or a Sooni when LALLA KOOKH impatiently clapped her hands for
silence, and the youth being seated upon the musnud near her proceeded:--


Prepare thy soul, young AZIM!--thou hast braved
The bands of GREECE, still mighty tho' enslaved;
Hast faced her phalanx armed with all its fame,--
Her Macedonian pikes and globes of fame,
All this hast fronted with firm heart and brow,
But a more perilous trial waits thee now,--
Woman's bright eyes, a dazzling host of eyes
From every land where woman smiles or sighs;
Of every hue, as Love may chance to raise
His black or azure banner in their blaze;
And each sweet mode of warfare, from the flash
That lightens boldly thro' the shadowy lash,
To the sly, stealing splendors almost hid
Like swords half-sheathed beneath the downcast lid;--
Such, AZIM, is the lovely, luminous host
Now led against thee; and let conquerors boast
Their fields of fame, he who in virtue arms
A young, warm spirit against beauty's charms,
Who feels her brightness, yet defies her thrall,
Is the best, bravest conqueror of them all.

  Now, thro' the Haram chambers, moving lights
And busy shapes proclaim the toilet's rites;--
From room to room the ready handmaids hie,
Some skilled to wreath the turban tastefully,
Or hang the veil in negligence of shade
O'er the warm blushes of the youthful maid,
Who, if between the folds but one eye shone,
Like SEBA'S Queen could vanquish with that one:[55]--

While some bring leaves of Henna to imbue
The fingers' ends with a bright roseate hue,[56]
So bright that in the mirror's depth they seem
Like tips of coral branches in the stream:
And others mix the Kohol's jetty dye,
To give that long, dark languish to the eye,[57]
Which makes the maids whom kings are proud to call
From fair Circassia's vales, so beautiful.
All is in motion; rings and plumes and pearls
Are shining everywhere:--some younger girls
Are gone by moonlight to the garden-beds,
To gather fresh, cool chaplets for their heads;--
Gay creatures! sweet, tho' mournful, 'tis to see
How each prefers a garland from that tree
Which brings to mind her childhood's innocent day
And the dear fields and friendships far away.
The maid of INDIA, blest again to hold
In her full lap the Champac's leaves of gold,[58]
Thinks of the time when, by the GANGES' flood,
Her little playmates scattered many a bud
Upon her long black hair with glossy gleam
Just dripping from the consecrated stream;
While the young Arab haunted by the smell
Of her own mountain flowers as by a spell,--
The sweet Alcaya[59] and that courteous tree
Which bows to all who seek its canopy,[60]
Sees called up round her by these magic scents
The well, the camels, and her father's tents;
Sighs for the home she left with little pain,
And wishes even its sorrow back again!

  Meanwhile thro' vast illuminated halls,
Silent and bright, where nothing but the falls
Of fragrant waters gushing with cool sound
From many a jasper fount is heard around,
Young AZIM roams bewildered,--nor can guess
What means this maze of light and loneliness.
Here the way leads o'er tesselated floors
Or mats of CAIRO thro' long corridors,
Where ranged in cassolets and silver urns
Sweet wood of aloe or of sandal burns,
And spicy rods such as illume at night
The bowers of TIBET[61] send forth odorous light,
Like Peris' wands, when pointing out the road
For some pure Spirit to its blest abode:--
And here at once the glittering saloon
Bursts on his sight, boundless and bright as noon;
Where in the midst reflecting back the rays
In broken rainbows a fresh fountain plays
High as the enamelled cupola which towers
All rich with Arabesques of gold and flowers:
And the mosaic floor beneath shines thro'
The sprinkling of that fountain's silvery dew,
Like the wet, glistening shells of every dye
That on the margin of the Red Sea lie.

  Here too he traces the kind visitings
Of woman's love in those fair, living things
Of land and wave, whose fate--in bondage thrown
For their weak loveliness--is like her own!
On one side gleaming with a sudden grace
Thro' water brilliant as the crystal vase
In which it undulates, small fishes shine
Like golden ingots from a fairy mine;--
While, on the other, latticed lightly in
With odoriferous woods of COMORIN,
Each brilliant bird that wings the air is seen;--
Gay, sparkling loories such as gleam between
The crimson blossoms of the coral-tree[62]
In the warm isles of India's sunny sea:
Mecca's blue sacred pigeon,[63] and the thrush
Of Hindostan[64] whose holy warblings gush
At evening from the tall pagoda's top;--
Those golden birds that in the spice time drop
About the gardens, drunk with that sweet food[65]
Whose scent hath lured them o'er the summer flood;[66]
And those that under Araby's soft sun
Build their high nests of budding cinnamon;[67]
In short, all rare and beauteous things that fly
Thro' the pure element here calmly lie
Sleeping in light, like the green birds[68] that dwell
In Eden's radiant fields of asphodel!

  So on, thro' scenes past all imagining,
More like the luxuries of that impious King,[69]
Whom Death's dark Angel with his lightning torch
Struck down and blasted even in Pleasure's porch,
Than the pure dwelling of a Prophet sent
Armed with Heaven's sword for man's enfranchisement--
Young AZIM wandered, looking sternly round,
His simple garb and war-boots clanking sound
But ill according with the pomp and grace
And silent lull of that voluptuous place.

  "Is this, then," thought the youth, "is this the way
"To free man's spirit from the deadening sway
"Of worldly sloth,--to teach him while he lives
"To know no bliss but that which virtue gives,
"And when he dies to leave his lofty name
"A light, a landmark on the cliffs of fame?
"It was not so, Land of the generous thought
"And daring deed, thy god-like sages taught;
"It was not thus in bowers of wanton ease
"Thy Freedom nurst her sacred energies;
"Oh! not beneath the enfeebling, withering glow
"Of such dull luxury did those myrtles grow
"With which she wreathed her sword when she would dare
"Immortal deeds; but in the bracing air
"Of toil,--of temperance,--of that high, rare,
"Ethereal virtue, which alone can breathe
"Life, health, and lustre into Freedom's wreath.
"Who that surveys this span of earth we press.--
"This speck of life in time's great wilderness,
"This narrow isthmus 'twixt two boundless seas,
"The past, the future, two eternities!--
"Would sully the bright spot, or leave it bare,
"When he might build him a proud temple there,
"A name that long shall hallow all its space,
"And be each purer soul's high resting-place.
"But no--it cannot be, that one whom God
"Has sent to break the wizard Falsehood's rod,--
"A Prophet of the Truth, whose mission draws
"Its rights from Heaven, should thus profane its cause
"With the world's vulgar pomps;--no, no,--I see--
"He thinks me weak--this glare of luxury
"Is but to tempt, to try the eaglet gaze
"Of my young soul--shine on, 'twill stand the blaze!"

  So thought the youth;--but even while he defied
This witching scene he felt its witchery glide
Thro' every sense. The perfume breathing round,
Like a pervading spirit;--the still sound
Of falling waters, lulling as the song
Of Indian bees at sunset when they throng
Around the fragrant NILICA, and deep
In its blue blossoms hum themselves to sleep;[70]
And music, too--dear music! that can touch
Beyond all else the soul that loves it much--
Now heard far off, so far as but to seem
Like the faint, exquisite music of a dream;
All was too much for him, too full of bliss,
The heart could nothing feel, that felt not this;
Softened he sunk upon a couch and gave
His soul up to sweet thoughts like wave on wave
Succeeding in smooth seas when storms are laid;
He thought of ZELICA, his own dear maid,
And of the time when full of blissful sighs
They sat and lookt into each other's eyes,
Silent and happy--as if God had given
Naught else worth looking at on this side heaven.

  "Oh, my loved mistress, thou whose spirit still
"Is with me, round me, wander where I will--
"It is for thee, for thee alone I seek
"The paths of glory; to light up thy cheek
"With warm approval--in that gentle look
"To read my praise as in an angel's book,
"And think all toils rewarded when from thee
"I gain a smile worth immortality!
"How shall I bear the moment, when restored
"To that young heart where I alone am Lord.
"Tho' of such bliss unworthy,--since the best
"Alone deserve to be the happiest:--
"When from those lips unbreathed upon for years
"I shall again kiss off the soul-felt tears,
"And find those tears warm as when last they started,
"Those sacred kisses pure as when we parted.
"O my own life!--why should a single day,
"A moment keep me from those arms away?"

While thus he thinks, still nearer on the breeze
Come those delicious, dream-like harmonies,
Each note of which but adds new, downy links
To the soft chain in which his spirit sinks.
He turns him toward the sound, and far away
Thro' a long vista sparkling with the play
Of countless lamps,--like the rich track which Day
Leaves on the waters, when he sinks from us,
So long the path, its light so tremulous;--
He sees a group of female forms advance,
Some chained together in the mazy dance
By fetters forged in the green sunny bowers,
As they were captives to the King of Flowers;[71]
And some disporting round, unlinkt and free,
Who seemed to mock their sisters' slavery;
And round and round them still in wheeling flight
Went like gay moths about a lamp at night;
While others waked, as gracefully along
Their feet kept time, the very soul of song
From psaltery, pipe, and lutes of heavenly thrill,
Or their own youthful voices heavenlier still.
And now they come, now pass before his eye,
Forms such as Nature moulds when she would vie
With Fancy's pencil and give birth to things
Lovely beyond its fairest picturings.
Awhile they dance before him, then divide,
Breaking like rosy clouds at eventide
Around the rich pavilion of the sun,--
Till silently dispersing, one by one,
Thro' many a path that from the chamber leads
To gardens, terraces and moonlight meads,
Their distant laughter comes upon the wind,
And but one trembling nymph remains behind,--
Beckoning them back in vain--for they are gone
And she is left in all that light alone;
No veil to curtain o'er her beauteous brow,
In its young bashfulness more beauteous now;
But a light golden chain-work round her hair,[72]
Such as the maids of YEZD and SHIRAS wear,[73]
From which on either side gracefully hung
A golden amulet in the Arab tongue,
Engraven o'er with some immortal line
From Holy Writ or bard scarce less divine;
While her left hand, as shrinkingly she stood,
Held a small lute of gold and sandal-wood,
Which once or twice she touched with hurried strain,
Then took her trembling fingers off again.
But when at length a timid glance she stole
At AZIM, the sweet gravity of soul
She saw thro' all his features calmed her fear,
And like a half-tamed antelope more near,
Tho' shrinking still, she came;--then sat her down
Upon a musnud's[74] edge, and, bolder grown.
In the pathetic mode of ISFAHAN[75]
Touched a preluding strain and thus began:--

There's a bower of roses by BENDEMEER's[76] stream,
  And the nightingale sings round it all the day long;
In the time of my childhood 'twas like a sweet dream,
  To sit in the roses and hear the bird's song.

That bower and its music, I never forget,
  But oft when alone in the bloom of the year
I think--is the nightingale singing there yet?
  Are the roses still bright by the calm BENDEMEER?

No, the roses soon withered that hung o'er the wave,
  But some blossoms were gathered while freshly they shone.
And a dew was distilled from their flowers that gave
  All the fragrance of summer when summer was gone.

Thus memory draws from delight ere it dies
  An essence that breathes of it many a year;
Thus bright to my soul, as 'twas then to my eyes,
  Is that bower on the banks of the calm BENDEMEER!

  "Poor maiden!" thought the youth, "if thou wert sent
"With thy soft lute and beauty's blandishment
"To wake unholy wishes in this heart,
"Or tempt its truth, thou little know'st the art.
"For tho' thy lips should sweetly counsel wrong,
"Those vestal eyes would disavow its song.
"But thou hast breathed such purity, thy lay
"Returns so fondly to youth's virtuous day,
"And leads thy soul--if e'er it wandered thence--
"So gently back to its first innocence,
"That I would sooner stop the unchained dove,
"When swift returning to its home of love,
"And round its snowy wing new fetters twine.
"Than turn from virtue one pure wish of thine!"

  Scarce had this feeling past, when sparkling thro'
The gently open'd curtains of light blue
That veiled the breezy casement, countless eyes
Peeping like stars thro' the blue evening skies,
Looked laughing in as if to mock the pair
That sat so still and melancholy there:--
And now the curtains fly apart and in
From the cool air mid showers of jessamine
Which those without fling after them in play,
Two lightsome maidens spring,--lightsome as they
Who live in the air on odors,--and around
The bright saloon, scarce conscious of the ground,
Chase one another in a varying dance
Of mirth and languor, coyness and advance,
Too eloquently like love's warm pursuit:--
While she who sung so gently to the lute
Her dream of home steals timidly away,
Shrinking as violets do in summer's ray,--
But takes with her from AZIM'S heart that sigh
We sometimes give to forms that pass us by
In the world's crowd, too lovely to remain,
Creatures of light we never see again!

  Around the white necks of the nymphs who danced
Hung carcanets of orient gems that glanced
More brilliant than the sea-glass glittering o'er
The hills of crystal on the Caspian shore;[77]
While from their long, dark tresses, in a fall
Of curls descending, bells as musical
As those that on the golden-shafted trees
Of EDEN shake in the eternal breeze,[78]
Rung round their steps, at every bound more sweet.
As 'twere the ecstatic language of their feet.
At length the chase was o'er, and they stood wreathed
Within each other's arms; while soft there breathed
Thro' the cool casement, mingled with the sighs
Of moonlight flowers, music that seemed to rise
From some still lake, so liquidly it rose;
And as it swelled again at each faint close
The ear could track thro' all that maze of chords
And young sweet voices these impassioned words:--

A SPIRIT there is whose fragrant sigh
  Is burning now thro' earth and air;
Where cheeks are blushing the Spirit is nigh,
  Where lips are meeting the Spirit is there!

His breath is the soul of flowers like these,
  And his floating eyes--oh! they resemble[79]
Blue water-lilies,[80] when the breeze
  Is making the stream around them tremble.

Hail to thee, hail to thee, kindling power!
  Spirit of Love, Spirit of Bliss!
Thy holiest time is the moonlight hour,
  And there never was moonlight so sweet as this.

By the fair and brave
  Who blushing unite,
Like the sun and wave,
  When they meet at night;

By the tear that shows
  When passion is nigh,
As the rain-drop flows
  From the heat of the sky;

By the first love-beat
  Of the youthful heart,
By the bliss to meet,
  And the pain to part;

By all that thou hast
  To mortals given,
Which--oh, could it last,
  This earth were heaven!

We call thee thither, entrancing Power!
  Spirit of Love! Spirit of Bliss!
Thy holiest time is the moonlight hour,
  And there never was moonlight so sweet as this.

Impatient of a scene whose luxuries stole,
Spite of himself, too deep into his soul,
And where, midst all that the young heart loves most,
Flowers, music, smiles, to yield was to be lost,
The youth had started up and turned away
From the light nymphs and their luxurious lay
To muse upon the pictures that hung round,--[81]
Bright images, that spoke without a sound,
And views like vistas into fairy ground.
But here again new spells came o'er his sense:--
All that the pencil's mute omnipotence
Could call up into life, of soft and fair,
Of fond and passionate, was glowing there;
Nor yet too warm, but touched with that fine art
Which paints of pleasure but the purer part;
Which knows even Beauty when half-veiled is best,--
Like her own radiant planet of the west,
Whose orb when half retired looks loveliest.[82]
_There_ hung the history of the Genii-King,
Traced thro' each gay, voluptuous wandering
With her from SABA'S bowers, in whose bright eyes
He read that to be blest is to be wise;--
_Here_ fond ZULEIKA woos with open arms[83]
The Hebrew boy who flies from her young charms,
Yet flying turns to gaze and half undone
Wishes that Heaven and she could _both_ be won;
And here MOHAMMED born for love and guile
Forgets the Koran in his MARY'S smile;--
Then beckons some kind angel from above
With a new text to consecrate their love.[84]

With rapid step, yet pleased and lingering eye,
Did the youth pass these pictured stories by,
And hastened to a casement where the light
Of the calm moon came in and freshly bright
The fields without were seen sleeping as still
As if no life remained in breeze or rill.
Here paused he while the music now less near
Breathed with a holier language on his ear,
As tho' the distance and that heavenly ray
Thro' which the sounds came floating took away
All that had been too earthly in the lay.

Oh! could he listen to such sounds unmoved,
And by that light--nor dream of her he loved?
Dream on, unconscious boy! while yet thou may'st;
'Tis the last bliss thy soul shall ever taste.
Clasp yet awhile her image to thy heart,
Ere all the light that made it dear depart.
Think of her smiles as when thou saw'st them last,
Clear, beautiful, by naught of earth o'ercast;
Recall her tears to thee at parting given,
Pure as they weep, _if_ angels weep in Heaven.
Think in her own still bower she waits thee now
With the same glow of heart and bloom of brow,
Yet shrined in solitude--thine all, thine only,
Like the one star above thee, bright and lonely.
Oh! that a dream so sweet, so long enjoyed,
Should be so sadly, cruelly destroyed!

The song is husht, the laughing nymphs are flown,
And he is left musing of bliss alone;--
Alone?--no, not alone--that heavy sigh,
That sob of grief which broke from some one nigh--
Whose could it be?--alas! is misery found
Here, even here, on this enchanted ground?
He turns and sees a female form close veiled,
Leaning, as if both heart and strength had failed,
Against a pillar near;--not glittering o'er
With gems and wreaths such as the others wore,
But in that deep-blue, melancholy dress.[85]
BOKHARA'S maidens wear in mindfulness
Of friends or kindred, dead or far away;--
And such as ZELICA had on that day
He left her--when with heart too full to speak
He took away her last warm tears upon his cheek.

A strange emotion stirs within him,--more
Than mere compassion ever waked before;
Unconsciously he opes his arms while she
Springs forward as with life's last energy,
But, swooning in that one convulsive bound,
Sinks ere she reach his arms upon the ground;--
Her veil falls off--her faint hands clasp his knees--
'Tis she herself!--it is ZELICA he sees!
But, ah, so pale, so changed--none but a lover
Could in that wreck of beauty's shrine discover
The once adorned divinity--even he
Stood for some moments mute, and doubtingly
Put back the ringlets from her brow, and gazed
Upon those lids where once such lustre blazed,
Ere he could think she was _indeed_ his own,
Own darling maid whom he so long had known
In joy and sorrow, beautiful in both;
Who, even when grief was heaviest--when loath
He left her for the wars--in that worst hour
Sat in her sorrow like the sweet night-flower,[86]
When darkness brings its weeping glories out,
And spreads its sighs like frankincense about.

  "Look up, my ZELICA--one moment show
"Those gentle eyes to me that I may know
"Thy life, thy loveliness is not all gone,
"But _there_ at least shines as it ever shone.
"Come, look upon thy AZIM--one dear glance,
"Like those of old, were heaven! whatever chance
"Hath brought thee here, oh, 'twas a blessed one!
"There--my loved lips--they move--that kiss hath run
"Like the first shoot of life thro' every vein,
"And now I clasp her, mine, all mine again.
"Oh the delight--now, in this very hour,
"When had the whole rich world been in my power,
"I should have singled out thee only thee,
"From the whole world's collected treasury--
"To have thee here--to hang thus fondly o'er
"My own, best, purest ZELICA once more!"

  It was indeed the touch of those fond lips
Upon her eyes that chased their short eclipse.
And gradual as the snow at Heaven's breath
Melts off and shows the azure flowers beneath,
Her lids unclosed and the bright eyes were seen
Gazing on his--not, as they late had been,
Quick, restless, wild, but mournfully serene;
As if to lie even for that tranced minute
So near his heart had consolation in it;
And thus to wake in his beloved caress
Took from her soul one half its wretchedness.
But, when she heard him call her good and pure,
Oh! 'twas too much--too dreadful to endure!
Shuddering she broke away from his embrace.
And hiding with both hands her guilty face
Said in a tone whose anguish would have riven
A heart of very marble, "Pure!--oh Heaven!"--

  That tone--those looks so changed--the withering blight,
That sin and sorrow leave where'er they light:
The dead despondency of those sunk eyes,
Where once, had he thus met her by surprise,
He would have seen himself, too happy boy,
Reflected in a thousand lights of joy:
And then the place,--that bright, unholy place,
Where vice lay hid beneath each winning grace
And charm of luxury as the viper weaves
Its wily covering of sweet balsam leaves,[87]--
All struck upon his heart, sudden and cold
As death itself;--it needs not to be told--
No, no--he sees it all plain as the brand
Of burning shame can mark--whate'er the hand,
That could from Heaven and him such brightness sever,
'Tis done--to Heaven and him she's lost for ever!
It was a dreadful moment; not the tears,
The lingering, lasting misery of years
Could match that minute's anguish--all the worst
Of sorrow's elements in that dark burst
Broke o'er his soul and with one crash of fate
Laid the whole hopes of his life desolate.

  "Oh! curse me not," she cried, as wild he tost
His desperate hand towards Heav'n--"tho' I am lost,
"Think not that guilt, that falsehood made me fall,
"No, no--'twas grief, 'twas madness did it all!
"Nay, doubt me not--tho' all thy love hath ceased--
"I know it hath--yet, yet believe, at least,
"That every spark of reason's light must be
"Quenched in this brain ere I could stray from thee.
"They told me thou wert dead--why, AZIM, why
"Did we not, both of us, that instant die
"When we were parted? oh! couldst thou but know
"With what a deep devotedness of woe
"I wept thy absence--o'er and o'er again
"Thinking of thee, still thee, till thought grew pain,
"And memory like a drop that night and day
"Falls cold and ceaseless wore my heart away.
"Didst thou but know how pale I sat at home,
"My eyes still turned the way thou wert to come,
"And, all the long, long night of hope and fear,
"Thy voice and step still sounding in my ear--
"Oh God! thou wouldst not wonder that at last,
"When every hope was all at once o'ercast,
"When I heard frightful voices round me say
"_Azim is dead_!--this wretched brain gave way,
"And I became a wreck, at random driven,
"Without one glimpse of reason or of Heaven--
"All wild--and even this quenchless love within
"Turned to foul fires to light me into sin!--
"Thou pitiest me--I knew thou wouldst--that sky
"Hath naught beneath it half so lorn as I.
"The fiend, who lured me hither--hist! come near.
"Or thou too, _thou_ art lost, if he should hear--
"Told me such things--oh! with such devilish art.
"As would have ruined even a holier heart--
"Of thee, and of that ever-radiant sphere,
"Where blest at length, if I but served him here,
"I should for ever live in thy dear sight.
"And drink from those pure eyes eternal light.
"Think, think how lost, how maddened I must be,
"To hope that guilt could lead to God or thee!
"Thou weep'st for me--do weep--oh, that I durst
"Kiss off that tear! but, no--these lips are curst,
"They must not touch thee;--one divine caress,
"One blessed moment of forgetfulness
"I've had within those arms and _that_ shall lie
"Shrined in my soul's deep memory till I die;
"The last of joy's last relics here below,
"The one sweet drop, in all this waste of woe,
"My heart has treasured from affection's spring,
"To soothe and cool its deadly withering!
"But thou--yes, thou must go--for ever go;
"This place is not for thee--for thee! oh no,
"Did I but tell thee half, thy tortured brain
"Would burn like mine, and mine go wild again!
"Enough that Guilt reigns here--that hearts once good
"Now tainted, chilled and broken are his food.--
"Enough that we are parted--that there rolls
"A flood of headlong fate between our souls,
"Whose darkness severs me as wide from thee
"As hell from heaven to all eternity!"

  "ZELICA, ZELICA!" the youth exclaimed.
In all the tortures of a mind inflamed
Almost to madness--"by that sacred Heaven,
"Where yet, if prayers can move, thou'lt be forgiven,
"As thou art here--here, in this writhing heart,
"All sinful, wild, and ruined as thou art!
"By the remembrance of our once pure love,
"Which like a church-yard light still burns above
"The grave of our lost souls--which guilt in thee
"Cannot extinguish nor despair in me!
"I do conjure, implore thee to fly hence--
"If thou hast yet one spark of innocence,
"Fly with me from this place"--
    "With thee! oh bliss!
"'Tis worth whole years of torment to hear this.
"What! take the lost one with thee?--let her rove
"By thy dear side, as in those days of love,
"When we were both so happy, both so pure--
"Too heavenly dream! if there's on earth a cure
"For the sunk heart, 'tis this--day after day
"To be the blest companion of thy way;
"To hear thy angel eloquence--to see
"Those virtuous eyes for ever turned on me;
"And in their light re-chastened silently,
"Like the stained web that whitens in the sun,
"Grow pure by being purely shone upon!
"And thou wilt pray for me--I know thou wilt--
"At the dim vesper hour when thoughts of guilt
"Come heaviest o'er the heart thou'lt lift thine eyes
"Full of sweet tears unto the darkening skies
"And plead for me with Heaven till I can dare
"To fix my own weak, sinful glances there;
"Till the good angels when they see me cling
"For ever near thee, pale and sorrowing,
"Shall for thy sake pronounce my soul forgiven,
"And bid thee take thy weeping slave to Heaven!
"Oh yes, I'll fly with thee"--
    Scarce had she said
These breathless words when a voice deep and dread
As that of MONKER waking up the dead
From their first sleep--so startling 'twas to both--
Rang thro' the casement near, "Thy oath! thy oath!"
Oh Heaven, the ghastliness of that Maid's look!--
"'Tis he," faintly she cried, while terror shook
Her inmost core, nor durst she lift her eyes,
Tho' thro' the casement, now naught but the skies
And moonlight fields were seen, calm as before--
"'Tis he, and I am his--all, all is o'er--
"Go--fly this instant, or thou'rt ruin'd too--
"My oath, my oath, oh God! 'tis all too true,
"True as the worm in this cold heart it is--
"I am MOKANNA'S bride--his, AZIM, his--
"The Dead stood round us while I spoke that vow,
"Their blue lips echoed it--I hear them now!
"Their eyes glared on me, while I pledged that bowl,
"'Twas burning blood--I feel it in my soul!
"And the Veiled Bridegroom--hist! I've seen to-night
"What angels know not of--so foul a sight.
"So horrible--oh! never may'st thou see
"What _there_ lies hid from all but hell and me!
"But I must hence--off, off--I am not thine,
"Nor Heaven's, nor Love's, nor aught that is divine--
"Hold me not--ha! think'st thou the fiends that sever
"Hearts cannot sunder hands?--thus, then--for ever!"

With all that strength which madness lends the weak
She flung away his arm; and with a shriek
Whose sound tho' be should linger out more years
Than wretch e'er told can never leave his ears--
Flew up thro' that long avenue of light,
Fleetly as some dark, ominous bird of night,
Across the sun; and soon was out of sight!


LALLA ROOKH could think of nothing all day but the misery of those two
young lovers. Her gayety was gone, and she looked pensively even upon
FADLAPEEN. She felt, too, without knowing why, a sort of uneasy pleasure
in imagining that AZIM must have been just such a youth as FERAMORZ; just
as worthy to enjoy all the blessings, without any of the pangs, of that
illusive passion, which too often like the sunny apples of Istkahar[88]
is all sweetness on one side and all bitterness on the other.

As they passed along a sequestered river after sunset they saw a young
Hindoo girl upon the bank, whose employment seemed to them so strange that
they stopped their palankeens to observe her. She had lighted a small lamp
filled with oil of cocoa, and placing it in an earthen dish adorned with a
wreath of flowers, had committed it with a trembling hand to the stream;
and was now anxiously watching its progress down the current, heedless of
the gay cavalcade which had drawn up beside her. LALLA ROOKH was all
curiosity;--when one of her attendants, who had lived upon the banks of
the Ganges, (where this ceremony is so frequent that often in the dusk of
the evening the river is seen glittering all over with lights, like the
Oton-tala or Sea of Stars,)[89] informed the princess that it was the
usual way in which the friends of those who had gone on dangerous voyages
offered up vows for their safe return. If the lamp sunk immediately the
omen was disastrous; but if it went shining down the stream and continued
to burn till entirely out of sight, the return of the beloved object was
considered as certain.

LALLA ROOKH as they moved on more than once looked back to observe how the
young Hindoo's lamp proceeded; and while she saw with pleasure that it was
still unextinguished she could not help fearing that all the hopes of this
life were no better than that feeble light upon the river. The remainder
of the journey was passed in silence. She now for the first time felt that
shade of melancholy which comes over the youthful maiden's heart as sweet
and transient as her own breath upon a mirror; nor was it till she heard
the lute of FERAMOKZ, touched lightly at the door of her pavilion that she
waked from the revery in which she had been wandering. Instantly her eyes
were lighted up with pleasure; and after a few unheard remarks from
FADLADEEN upon the indecorum of a poet seating himself in presence of a
Princess everything was arranged as on the preceding evening and all
listened with eagerness while the story was thus continued:--


Whose are the gilded tents that crowd the way,
Where all was waste and silent yesterday?
This City of War which, in a few short hours,
Hath sprung up here, as if the magic powers[90]
Of Him who, in the twinkling of a star,
Built the high pillared halls of CHILMINAR,[91]
Had conjur'd up, far as the eye can see,
This world of tents and domes and sunbright armory:--
Princely pavilions screened by many a fold
Of crimson cloth and topt with balls of gold:--
Steeds with their housings of rich silver spun,
Their chains and poitrels glittering in the sun;
And camels tufted o'er with Yemen's shells[92]
Shaking in every breeze their light-toned bells!

But yester-eve, so motionless around,
So mute was this wide plain that not a sound
But the far torrent or the locust bird[93]
Hunting among thickets could be heard;--
Yet hark! what discords now of every kind,
Shouts, laughs, and screams are revelling in the wind;
The neigh of cavalry;--the tinkling throngs
Of laden camels and their drivers' songs;--
Ringing of arms, and flapping in the breeze
Of streamers from ten thousand canopies;--[94]
War-music bursting out from time to time
With gong and tymbalon's tremendous chime;--
Or in the pause when harsher sounds are mute,
The mellow breathings of some horn or flute,
That far off, broken by the eagle note
Of the Abyssinian trumpet, swell and float.[95]

Who leads this mighty army?--ask ye "who?"
And mark ye not those banners of dark hue,
The Night and Shadow, over yonder tent?--[96]
It is the CALIPH'S glorious armament.
Roused in his Palace by the dread alarms,
That hourly came, of the false Prophet's arms,
And of his host of infidels who hurled
Defiance fierce at Islam and the world,[97]
Tho' worn with Grecian warfare, and behind
The veils of his bright Palace calm reclined,
Yet brooked he not such blasphemy should stain,
Thus unrevenged, the evening of his reign;
But having sworn upon the Holy Grave[98]
To conquer or to perish, once more gave
His shadowy banners proudly to the breeze,
And with an army nurst in victories,
Here stands to crush the rebels that o'errun
His blest and beauteous Province of the Sun.

Ne'er did the march of MAHADI display
Such pomp before;--not even when on his way
To MECCA'S Temple, when both land and sea
Were spoiled to feed the Pilgrim's luxury;[99]
When round him mid the burning sands he saw
Fruits of the North in icy freshness thaw,
And cooled his thirsty lip beneath the glow
Of MECCA'S sun with urns of Persian snow:--
Nor e'er did armament more grand than that
Pour from the kingdoms of the Caliphat.
First, in the van, the People of the Rock[100]
On their light mountain steeds of royal stock:[101]
Then chieftains of DAMASCUS proud to see
The flashing of their swords' rich marquetry;--[102]
Men from the regions near the VOLGA'S mouth
Mixt with the rude, black archers of the South;
And Indian lancers in white-turbaned ranks
From the far SINDE or ATTOCK'S sacred banks,
With dusky legions from the Land of Myrrh,[103]
And many a mace-armed Moor and Midsea islander.

Nor less in number tho' more new and rude
In warfare's school was the vast multitude
That, fired by zeal or by oppression wronged,
Round the white standard of the impostor thronged.
Beside his thousands of Believers--blind,
Burning and headlong as the Samiel wind--
Many who felt and more who feared to feel
The bloody Islamite's converting steel,
Flockt to his banner;--Chiefs of the UZBEK race,
Waving their heron crests with martial grace;[104]
TURKOMANS, countless as their flocks, led forth
From the aromatic pastures of the North;
Wild warriors of the turquoise hills,--and those[105]
Who dwell beyond the everlasting snows
Of HINDOO KOSH, in stormy freedom bred,
Their fort the rock, their camp the torrent's bed.
But none of all who owned the Chief's command
Rushed to that battle-field with bolder hand
Or sterner hate than IRAN'S outlawed men,
Her Worshippers of Fire--all panting then[106]
For vengeance on the accursed Saracen;
Vengeance at last for their dear country spurned,
Her throne usurpt, and her bright shrines o'erturned.

From YEZD'S eternal Mansion of the Fire[107]
Where aged saints in dreams of Heaven expire:
From BADKU and those fountains of blue flame
That burn into the CASPIAN, fierce they came,[108]
Careless for what or whom the blow was sped,
So vengeance triumpht and their tyrants bled.

Such was the wild and miscellaneous host
That high in air their motley banners tost
Around the Prophet-Chief--all eyes still bent
Upon that glittering Veil, where'er it went,
That beacon thro' the battle's stormy flood,
That rainbow of the field whose showers were blood!

Twice hath the sun upon their conflict set
And risen again and found them grappling yet;
While streams of carnage in his noontide blaze,
Smoke up to Heaven--hot as that crimson haze
By which the prostrate Caravan is awed[109]
In the red Desert when the wind's abroad.
"Oh, Swords of God!" the panting CALIPH calls,--
"Thrones for the living--Heaven for him who falls!"--
"On, brave avengers, on," MOKANNA cries,
"And EBLIS blast the recreant slave that flies!"
Now comes the brunt, the crisis of the day--
They clash--they strive--the CALIPH'S troops give way!
MOKANNA'S self plucks the black Banner down,
And now the Orient World's Imperial crown
Is just within his grasp--when, hark, that shout!
Some hand hath checkt the flying Moslem's rout;
And now they turn, they rally--at their head
A warrior, (like those angel youths who led,
In glorious panoply of Heaven's own mail,
The Champions of the Faith thro BEDER'S vale,)[110]
Bold as if gifted with ten thousand lives,
Turns on the fierce pursuers' blades, and drives
At once the multitudinous torrent back--
While hope and courage kindle in his track;
And at each step his bloody falchion makes
Terrible vistas thro' which victory breaks!
In vain MOKANNA, midst the general flight,
Stands like the red moon on some stormy night
Among the fugitive clouds that hurrying by
Leave only her unshaken in the sky--
In vain he yells his desperate curses out,
Deals death promiscuously to all about,
To foes that charge and coward friends that fly,
And seems of _all_ the Great Archenemy.
The panic spreads--"A miracle!" throughout
The Moslem ranks, "a miracle!" they shout,
All gazing on that youth whose coming seems
A light, a glory, such as breaks in dreams;
And every sword, true as o'er billows dim
The needle tracks the lode-star, following him!

Right towards MOKANNA now he cleaves his path,
Impatient cleaves as tho' the bolt of wrath
He bears from Heaven withheld its awful burst
From weaker heads and souls but half way curst,
To break o'er Him, the mightiest and the worst!
But vain his speed--tho', in that hour of blood,
Had all God's seraphs round MOKANNA stood
With swords o'fire ready like fate to fall,
MOKANNA'S soul would have defied them all;
Yet now, the rush of fugitives, too strong
For human force, hurries even _him_ along;
In vain he struggles mid the wedged array
Of flying thousands--he is borne away;
And the sole joy his baffled spirit knows,
In this forced flight, is--murdering as he goes!
As a grim tiger whom the torrent's might
Surprises in some parched ravine at night,
Turns even in drowning on the wretched flocks
Swept with him in that snow-flood from the rocks,
And, to the last, devouring on his way,
Bloodies the stream lie hath not power to stay.

"Alla illa Alla!"--the glad shout renew--
"Alla Akbar"--the Caliph's in MEROU.[111]
Hang out your gilded tapestry in the streets,
And light your shrines and chant your ziraleets.[112]
The swords of God have triumpht--on his throne
Your Caliph sits and the veiled Chief hath flown.
Who does not envy that young warrior now
To whom the Lord of Islam bends his brow,
In all the graceful gratitude of power,
For his throne's safety in that perilous hour?
Who doth not wonder, when, amidst the acclaim
Of thousands heralding to heaven his name--
Mid all those holier harmonies of fame
Which sound along the path of virtuous souls,
Like music round a planet as it rolls,--
He turns away--coldly, as if some gloom
Hung o'er his heart no triumphs can illume;--
Some sightless grief upon whose blasted gaze
Tho' glory's light may play, in vain it plays.
Yes, wretched AZIM! thine is such a grief,
Beyond all hope, all terror, all relief!
A dark, cold calm, which nothing now can break.
Or warm or brighten,--Like that Syrian Lake[113]
Upon whose surface morn and summer shed
Their smiles in vain, for all beneath is dead!--
Hearts there have been o'er which this weight of woe
Came by long use of suffering, tame and slow;
But thine, lost youth! was sudden--over thee
It broke at once, when all seemed ecstasy;
When Hope lookt up and saw the gloomy Past
Melt into splendor and Bliss dawn at last--
'Twas then, even then, o'er joys so freshly blown
This mortal blight of misery came down;
Even then, the full, warm gushings of thy heart
Were checkt--like fount-drops, frozen as they start--
And there like them cold, sunless relics hang,
Each fixt and chilled into a lasting pang.

One sole desire, one passion now remains
To keep life's fever still within his veins,
Vengeance!--dire vengeance on the wretch who cast
O'er him and all he loved that ruinous blast.
For this, when rumors reached him in his flight
Far, far away, after that fatal night,--
Rumors of armies thronging to the attack
Of the Veiled Chief,--for this he winged him back,
Fleet as the Vulture speeds to flags unfurled,
And when all hope seemed desperate, wildly hurled
Himself into the scale and saved a world.
For this he still lives on, careless of all
The wreaths that Glory on his path lets fall;
For this alone exists--like lightning-fire,
To speed one bolt of vengeance and expire!

But safe as yet that Spirit of Evil lives;
With a small band of desperate fugitives,
The last sole stubborn fragment left unriven
Of the proud host that late stood fronting Heaven,
He gained MEROU--breathed a short curse of blood
O'er his lost throne--then past the JIHON'S flood,[114]
And gathering all whose madness of belief
Still saw a Saviour in their down-fallen Chief,
Raised the white banner within NEKSHEB'S gates,[115]
And there, untamed, the approaching conqueror waits.

Of all his Haram, all that busy hive,
With music and with sweets sparkling alive,
He took but one, the partner of his flight,
One--not for love--not for her beauty's light--
No, ZELICA stood withering midst the gay.
Wan as the blossom that fell yesterday
From the Alma tree and dies, while overhead
To-day's young flower is springing in its stead.[116]
Oh, not for love--the deepest Damned must be
Touched with Heaven's glory ere such fiends as he
Can feel one glimpse of Love's divinity.
But no, she is his victim; _there_ lie all
Her charms for him-charms that can never pall,
As long as hell within his heart can stir,
Or one faint trace of Heaven is left in her.
To work an angel's ruin,--to behold
As white a page as Virtue e'er unrolled
Blacken beneath his touch into a scroll
Of damning sins, sealed with a burning soul--
This is his triumph; this the joy accurst,
That ranks him among demons all but first:
This gives the victim that before him lies
Blighted and lost, a glory in his eyes,
A light like that with which hellfire illumes
The ghastly, writhing wretch whom it consumes!

But other tasks now wait him--tasks that need
All the deep daringness of thought and deed
With which the Divs have gifted him--for mark,[117]
Over yon plains which night had else made dark,
Those lanterns countless as the winged lights
That spangle INDIA'S field on showery nights,--[118]
Far as their formidable gleams they shed,
The mighty tents of the beleaguerer spread,
Glimmering along the horizon's dusky line
And thence in nearer circles till they shine
Among the founts and groves o'er which the town
In all its armed magnificence looks down.
Yet, fearless, from his lofty battlements
MOKANNA views that multitude of tents;
Nay, smiles to think that, tho' entoiled, beset,
Not less than myriads dare to front him yet;--
That friendless, throneless, he thus stands at bay,
Even thus a match for myriads such as they.
"Oh, for a sweep of that dark Angel's wing,
"Who brushed the thousands of the Assyrian King[119]
"To darkness in a moment that I might
"People Hell's chambers with yon host to-night!
"But come what may, let who will grasp the throne,
"Caliph or Prophet, Man alike shall groan;
"Let who will torture him, Priest--Caliph--King--
"Alike this loathsome world of his shall ring
"With victims' shrieks and howlings of the slave,--
"Sounds that shall glad me even within my grave!"
Thus, to himself--but to the scanty train
Still left around him, a far different strain:--
"Glorious Defenders of the sacred Crown
"I bear from Heaven whose light nor blood shall drown
"Nor shadow of earth eclipse;--before whose gems
"The paly pomp of this world's diadems,
"The crown of GERASHID. the pillared throne
"Of PARVIZ[120] and the heron crest that shone[121]
"Magnificent o'er ALI'S beauteous eyes.[122]
"Fade like the stars when morn is in the skies:
"Warriors, rejoice--the port to which we've past
"O'er Destiny's dark wave beams out at last!
"Victory's our own--'tis written in that Book
"Upon whose leaves none but the angels look,
"That ISLAM'S sceptre shall beneath the power
"Of her great foe fall broken in that hour
"When the moon's mighty orb before all eyes
"From NEKSHEB'S Holy Well portentously shall rise!
"Now turn and see!"--They turned, and, as he spoke,
A sudden splendor all around them broke,
And they beheld an orb, ample and bright,
Rise from the Holy Well and cast its light[123]
Round the rich city and the plain for miles,--
Flinging such radiance o'er the gilded tiles
Of many a dome and fair-roofed imaret
As autumn suns shed round them when they set.
Instant from all who saw the illusive sign
A murmur broke--"Miraculous! divine!"
The Gheber bowed, thinking his idol star
Had waked, and burst impatient thro' the bar
Of midnight to inflame him to the war;
While he of MOUSSA'S creed saw in that ray
The glorious Light which in his freedom's day
Had rested on the Ark, and now again[124]
Shone out to bless the breaking of his chain.

"To victory!" is at once the cry of all--
Nor stands MOKANNA loitering at that call;
But instant the huge gates are flung aside,
And forth like a diminutive mountain-tide
Into the boundless sea they speed their course
Right on into the MOSLEM'S mighty force.
The watchmen of the camp,--who in their rounds
Had paused and even forgot the punctual sounds
Of the small drum with which they count the night,[125]
To gaze upon that supernatural light,--
Now sink beneath an unexpected arm,
And in a death-groan give their last alarm.
"On for the lamps that light yon lofty screen[126]
"Nor blunt your blades with massacre so mean;
"_There_ rests the CALIPH--speed--one lucky lance
"May now achieve mankind's deliverance."
Desperate the die--such as they only cast
Who venture for a world and stake their last.
But Fate's no longer with him--blade for blade
Springs up to meet them thro' the glimmering shade,
And as the clash is heard new legions soon
Pour to the spot, like bees of KAUZEROON[127]
To the shrill timbrel's summons,--till at length
The mighty camp swarms out in all its strength.
And back to NEKSHEB'S gates covering the plain
With random slaughter drives the adventurous train;
Among the last of whom the Silver Veil
Is seen glittering at times, like the white sail
Of some tost vessel on a stormy night
Catching the tempest's momentary light!

And hath not this brought the proud spirit low!
Nor dashed his brow nor checkt his daring? No.
Tho' half the wretches whom at night he led
To thrones and victory lie disgraced and dead,
Yet morning hears him with unshrinking crest.
Still vaunt of thrones and victory to the rest;--
And they believe him!--oh, the lover may
Distrust that look which steals his soul away;--
The babe may cease to think that it can play
With Heaven's rainbow;--alchymists may doubt
The shining gold their crucible gives out;
But Faith, fanatic Faith, once wedded fast
To some dear falsehood hugs it to the last.

And well the Impostor knew all lures and arts,
That LUCIFER e'er taught to tangle hearts;
Nor, mid these last bold workings of his plot
Against men's souls, is ZELICA forgot.
Ill-fated ZELICA! had reason been
Awake, thro' half the horrors thou hast seen,
Thou never couldst have borne it--Death had come
At once and taken thy wrung spirit home.
But 'twas not so--a torpor, a suspense
Of thought, almost of life, came o'er the intense
And passionate struggles of that fearful night,
When her last hope of peace and heaven took flight:
And tho' at times a gleam of frenzy broke,--
As thro' some dull volcano's veil of smoke
Ominous flashings now and then will start,
Which show the fire's still busy at its heart;
Yet was she mostly wrapt in solemn gloom,--
Not such as AZIM'S, brooding o'er its doom
And calm without as is the brow of death
While busy worms are gnawing underneath--
But in a blank and pulseless torpor free
From thought or pain, a sealed-up apathy
Which left her oft with scarce one living thrill
The cold, pale victim of her torturer's will.

Again, as in MEROU, he had her deckt
Gorgeously out, the Priestess of the sect;
And led her glittering forth before the eyes
Of his rude train as to a sacrifice,--
Pallid as she, the young, devoted Bride
Of the fierce NILE, when, deckt in all the pride
Of nuptial pomp, she sinks into his tide.[128]
And while the wretched maid hung down her head,
And stood as one just risen from the dead
Amid that gazing crowd, the fiend would tell
His credulous slaves it was some charm or spell
Possest her now,--and from that darkened trance
Should dawn ere long their Faith's deliverance.
Or if at times goaded by guilty shame,
Her soul was roused and words of wildness came,
Instant the bold blasphemer would translate
Her ravings into oracles of fate,
Would hail Heaven's signals in her flashing eyes
And call her shrieks the language of the skies!

But vain at length his arts--despair is seen
Gathering around; and famine comes to glean
All that the sword had left unreaped;--in vain
At morn and eve across the northern plain
He looks impatient for the promised spears
Of the wild Hordes and TARTAR mountaineers;
They come not--while his fierce beleaguerers pour
Engines of havoc in, unknown before,[129]
And horrible as new;--javelins, that fly[130]
Enwreathed with smoky flames thro' the dark sky,
And red-hot globes that opening as they mount
Discharge as from a kindled Naphtha fount[131]
Showers of consuming fire o'er all below;
Looking as thro' the illumined night they go
Like those wild birds that by the Magians oft[132]
At festivals of fire were sent aloft
Into the air with blazing fagots tied
To their huge wings, scattering combustion wide.
All night the groans of wretches who expire
In agony beneath these darts of fire
Ring thro' the city--while descending o'er
Its shrines and domes and streets of sycamore,--
Its lone bazars, with their bright cloths of gold,
Since the last peaceful pageant left unrolled,--
Its beauteous marble baths whose idle jets.
Now gush with blood,--and its tall minarets
That late have stood up in the evening glare
Of the red sun, unhallowed by a prayer;--
O'er each in turn the dreadful flame-bolts fall,
And death and conflagration throughout all
The desolate city hold high festival!

MOKANNA sees the world is his no more;--
One sting at parting and his grasp is o'er,
"What! drooping now?"--thus, with unblushing cheek,
He hails the few who yet can hear him speak,
Of all those famished slaves around him lying,
And by the light of blazing temples dying;
"What!--drooping now!--now, when at length we press
"Home o'er the very threshold of success;
"When ALLA from our ranks hath thinned away
"Those grosser branches that kept out his ray
"Of favor from us and we stand at length
"Heirs of his light and children of his strength,
"The chosen few who shall survive the fall
"Of Kings and Thrones, triumphant over all!
"Have you then lost, weak murmurers as you are,
"All faith in him who was your Light, your Star?
"Have you forgot the eye of glory hid
"Beneath this Veil, the flashing of whose lid
"Could like a sun-stroke of the desert wither
"Millions of such as yonder Chief brings hither?
"Long have its lightnings slept--too long--but now
"All earth shall feel the unveiling of this brow!
"To-night--yes, sainted men! this very night,
"I bid you all to a fair festal rite,
"Where--having deep refreshed each weary limb
"With viands such as feast Heaven's cherubim
"And kindled up your souls now sunk and dim
"With that pure wine the Dark-eyed Maids above
"Keep, sealed with precious musk, for those they love,--[133]
"I will myself uncurtain in your sight
"The wonders of this brow's ineffable light;
"Then lead you forth and with a wink disperse
"Yon myriads howling thro' the universe!"

Eager they listen--while each accent darts
New life into their chilled and hope-sick hearts;
Such treacherous life as the cool draught supplies
To him upon the stake who drinks and dies!
Wildly they point their lances to the light
Of the fast sinking sun, and shout "To-night!"--
"To-night," their Chief re-echoes in a voice
Of fiend-like mockery that bids hell rejoice.
Deluded victims!--never hath this earth
Seen mourning half so mournful as their mirth.
_Here_, to the few whose iron frames had stood
This racking waste of famine and of blood,
Faint, dying wretches clung, from whom the shout
Of triumph like a maniac's laugh broke out:--
_There_, others, lighted by the smouldering fire,
Danced like wan ghosts about a funeral pyre
Among the dead and dying strewed around;--
While some pale wretch lookt on and from his wound
Plucking the fiery dart by which he bled,
In ghastly transport waved it o'er his head!

'Twas more than midnight now--a fearful pause
Had followed the long shouts, the wild applause,
That lately from those Royal Gardens burst,
Where the veiled demon held his feast accurst,
When ZELICA, alas, poor ruined heart,
In every horror doomed to bear its part!--
Was bidden to the banquet by a slave,
Who, while his quivering lip the summons gave,
Grew black, as tho' the shadows of the grave
Compast him round and ere he could repeat
His message thro', fell lifeless at her feet!
Shuddering she went--a soul-felt pang of fear
A presage that her own dark doom was near,
Roused every feeling and brought Reason back
Once more to writhe her last upon the rack.
All round seemed tranquil even the foe had ceased
As if aware of that demoniac feast
His fiery bolts; and tho' the heavens looked red,
'Twas but some distant conflagration's spread.
But hark--she stops--she listens--dreadful tone!
'Tis her Tormentor's laugh--and now, a groan,
A long death-groan comes with it--can this be
The place of mirth, the bower of revelry?

She enters--Holy ALLA, what a sight
Was there before her! By the glimmering light
Of the pale dawn, mixt with the flare of brands
That round lay burning dropt from lifeless hands,
She saw the board in splendid mockery spread,
Rich censers breathing--garlands overhead--
The urns, the cups, from which they late had quaft
All gold and gems, but--what had been the draught?
Oh! who need ask that saw those livid guests,
With their swollen heads sunk blackening on their breasts,
Or looking pale to Heaven with glassy glare,
As if they sought but saw no mercy there;
As if they felt, tho' poison racked them thro',
Remorse the deadlier torment of the two!
While some, the bravest, hardiest in the train
Of their false Chief, who on the battle-plain
Would have met death with transport by his side,
Here mute and helpless gasped;--but as they died
Lookt horrible vengeance with their eyes' last strain,
And clenched the slackening hand at him in vain.

Dreadful it was to see the ghastly stare,
The stony look of horror and despair,
Which some of these expiring victims cast
Upon their souls' tormentor to the last;
Upon that mocking Fiend whose Veil now raised,
Showed them as in death's agony they gazed,
Not the long promised light, the brow whose beaming
Was to come forth, all conquering, all redeeming,
But features horribler than Hell e'er traced
On its own brood;--no Demon of the Waste,[134]
No church-yard Ghoul caught lingering in the light
Of the blest sun, e'er blasted human sight
With lineaments so foul, so fierce as those
The Impostor now in grinning mockery shows:--
"There, ye wise Saints, behold your Light, your Star--
"Ye _would_ be dupes and victims and ye _are_.
"Is it enough? or must I, while a thrill
"Lives in your sapient bosoms, cheat you still?
"Swear that the burning death ye feel within
"Is but the trance with which Heaven's joys begin:
"That this foul visage, foul as e'er disgraced
"Even monstrous men, is--after God's own taste;
"And that--but see!--ere I have half-way said
"My greetings thro', the uncourteous souls are fled.
"Farewell, sweet spirits! not in vain ye die,
"If EBLIS loves you half so well as I.--
"Ha, my young bride!--'tis well--take thou thy seat;
"Nay come--no shuddering--didst thou never meet
"The Dead before?--they graced our wedding, sweet;
"And these, my guests to-night, have brimmed so true
"Their parting cups, that _thou_ shalt pledge one too.
"But--how is this?--all empty? all drunk up?
"Hot lips have been before thee in the cup,
"Young bride,--yet stay--one precious drop remains,
"Enough to warm a gentle Priestess' veins;--
"Here, drink--and should thy lover's conquering arms
"Speed hither ere thy lip lose all its charms,
"Give him but half this venom in thy kiss,
"And I'll forgive my haughty rival's bliss!

"For, _me_--I too must die--but not like these
"Vile rankling things to fester in the breeze;
"To have this brow in ruffian triumph shown,
"With all death's grimness added to its own,
"And rot to dust beneath the taunting eyes
"Of slaves, exclaiming, 'There his Godship lies!'
"No--cursed race--since first my soul drew breath,
"They've been my dupes and _shall_ be even in death.
"Thou seest yon cistern in the shade--'tis filled
"With burning drugs for this last hour distilled;
"There will I plunge me, in that liquid flame--
"Fit bath to lave a dying Prophet's frame!--
"There perish, all--ere pulse of thine shall fail--
"Nor leave one limb to tell mankind the tale.
"So shall my votaries, wheresoe'er they rave,
"Proclaim that Heaven took back the Saint it gave;--
"That I've but vanished from this earth awhile,
"To come again with bright, unshrouded smile!
"So shall they build me altars in their zeal,
"Where knaves shall minister and fools shall kneel;
"Where Faith may mutter o'er her mystic spell,
"Written in blood--and Bigotry may swell
"The sail he spreads for Heaven with blasts from hell!
"So shall my banner thro' long ages be
"The rallying sign of fraud and anarchy;--
"Kings yet unborn shall rue MOKANNA'S name,
"And tho' I die my spirit still the same
"Shall walk abroad in all the stormy strife,
"And guilt and blood that were its bliss in life.
"But hark! their battering engine shakes the wall--
"Why, _let_ it shake--thus I can brave them all.
"No trace of me shall greet them when they come,
"And I can trust thy faith, for--thou'lt be dumb.
"Now mark how readily a wretch like me
"In one bold plunge commences Deity!"

He sprung and sunk as the last words were said--
Quick closed the burning waters o'er his head,
And ZELICA was left--within the ring
Of those wide walls the only living thing;
The only wretched one still curst with breath
In all that frightful wilderness of death!
More like some bloodless ghost--such as they tell,
In the Lone Cities of the Silent dwell,[135]
And there unseen of all but ALLA sit
Each by its own pale carcass watching it.
But morn is up and a fresh warfare stirs
Throughout the camp of the beleaguerers.
Their globes of fire (the dread artillery lent
By GREECE to conquering MAHADI) are spent;
And now the scorpion's shaft, the quarry sent
From high balistas and the shielded throng
Of soldiers swinging the huge ram along,
All speak the impatient Islamite's intent
To try, at length, if tower and battlement
And bastioned wall be not less hard to win,
Less tough to break down than the hearts within.
First he, in impatience and in toil is
The burning AZIM--oh! could he but see
The impostor once alive within his grasp,
Not the gaunt lion's hug nor boa's clasp
Could match thy gripe of vengeance or keep pace
With the fell heartiness of Hate's embrace!

Loud rings the ponderous ram against the walls;
Now shake the ramparts, now a buttress falls,
But, still no breach--"Once more one mighty swing
"Of all your beams, together thundering!"
There--the wall shakes--the shouting troops exult,
"Quick, quick discharge your weightiest catapult
"Right on that spot and NEKSHEB is our own!"
'Tis done--the battlements come crashing down,
And the huge wall by that stroke riven in two
Yawning like some old crater rent anew,
Shows the dim, desolate city smoking thro'.
But strange! no sign of life--naught living seen
Above, below--what can this stillness mean?
A minute's pause suspends all hearts and eyes--
"In thro' the breach," impetuous AZIM cries;
But the cool CALIPH fearful of some wile
In this blank stillness checks the troops awhile.--
Just then a figure with slow step advanced
Forth from the ruined walls and as there glanced
A sunbeam over it all eyes could see
The well-known Silver Veil!--"'Tis He, 'tis He,
"MOKANNA and alone!" they shout around;
Young AZIM from his steed springs to the ground--
"Mine, Holy Caliph! mine," he cries, "the task
"To crush yon daring wretch--'tis all I ask."
Eager he darts to meet the demon foe
Who still across wide heaps of ruin slow
And falteringly comes, till they are near;
Then with a bound rushes on AZIM'S spear,
And casting off the Veil in falling shows--
Oh!--'tis his ZELICA'S life-blood that flows!

"I meant not, AZIM," soothingly she said,
As on his trembling arm she leaned her head,
And looking in his face saw anguish there
Beyond all wounds the quivering flesh can bear--
"I meant not _thou_ shouldst have the pain of this:--
"Tho' death with thee thus tasted is a bliss
"Thou wouldst not rob me of, didst thou but know
"How oft I've prayed to God I might die so!
"But the Fiend's venom was too scant and slow;--
"To linger on were maddening--and I thought
"If once that Veil--nay, look not on it--caught
"The eyes of your fierce soldiery, I should be
"Struck by a thousand death-darts instantly.
"But this is sweeter--oh! believe me, yes--
"I would not change this sad, but dear caress.
"This death within thy arms I would not give
"For the most smiling life the happiest live!
"All that stood dark and drear before the eye
"Of my strayed soul is passing swiftly by;
"A light comes o'er me from those looks of love,
"Like the first dawn of mercy from above;
"And if thy lips but tell me I'm forgiven,
"Angels will echo the blest words in Heaven!
"But live, my AZIM;--oh! to call thee mine
"Thus once again! _my_ AZIM--dream divine!
"Live, if thou ever lovedst me, if to meet
"Thy ZELICA hereafter would be sweet,
"Oh, live to pray for her--to bend the knee
"Morning and night before that Deity
"To whom pure lips and hearts without a stain,
"As thine are, AZIM, never breathed in vain,--
"And pray that He may pardon her,--may take
"Compassion on her soul for thy dear sake,
"And naught remembering but her love to thee,
"Make her all thine, all His, eternally!
"Go to those happy fields where first we twined
"Our youthful hearts together--every wind
"That meets thee there fresh from the well-known flowers
"Will bring the sweetness of those innocent hours
"Back to thy soul and thou mayst feel again
"For thy poor ZELICA as thou didst then.
"So shall thy orisons like dew that flies
"To Heaven upon the morning's sunshine rise
"With all love's earliest ardor to the skies!
"And should they--but, alas, my senses fail--
"Oh for one minute!--should thy prayers prevail--
"If pardoned souls may from that World of Bliss
"Reveal their joy to those they love in this--
"I'll come to thee--in some sweet dream--and tell--
"Oh Heaven--I die--dear love! farewell, farewell."

Time fleeted--years on years had past away,
And few of those who on that mournful day
Had stood with pity in their eyes to see
The maiden's death and the youth's agony,
Were living still--when, by a rustic grave,
Beside the swift Amoo's transparent wave,
An aged man who had grown aged there
By that lone grave, morning and night in prayer,
For the last time knelt down--and tho' the shade
Of death hung darkening over him there played
A gleam of rapture on his eye and cheek,
That brightened even Death--like the last streak
Of intense glory on the horizon's brim,
When night o'er all the rest hangs chill and dim.
His soul had seen a Vision while he slept;
She for whose spirit he had prayed and wept
So many years had come to him all drest
In angel smiles and told him she was blest!
For this the old man breathed his thanks and died.--
And there upon the banks of that loved tide,
He and his ZELICA sleep side by side.


The story of the Veiled Prophet of Khorassan being ended, they were now
doomed to hear FADLADEEN'S criticisms upon it. A series of disappointments
and accidents had occurred to this learned Chamberlain during the journey.
In the first place, those couriers stationed, as in the reign of Shah
Jehan, between Delhi and the Western coast of India, to secure a constant
supply of mangoes for the Royal Table, had by some cruel irregularity
failed in their duty; and to eat any mangoes but those of Mazagong was of
course impossible.[136] In the next place, the elephant laden with his
fine antique porcelain,[137] had, in an unusual fit of liveliness,
shattered the whole set to pieces:--an irreparable loss, as many of the
vessels were so exquisitely old, as to have been used under the Emperors
Yan and Chun, who reigned many ages before the dynasty of Tang. His Koran
too, supposed to be the identical copy between the leaves of which
Mahomet's favorite pigeon used to nestle, had been mislaid by his
Koran-bearer three whole days; not without much spiritual alarm to
FADLADEEN who though professing to hold with other loyal and orthodox
Mussulmans that salvation could only be found in the Koran was strongly
suspected of believing in his heart that it could only be found in his own
particular copy of it. When to all these grievances is added the obstinacy
of the cooks in putting the pepper of Canara into his dishes instead of
the cinnamon of Serendib, we may easily suppose that he came to the task
of criticism with at least a sufficient degree of irritability for the
purpose.

"In order," said he, importantly swinging about his chaplet of pearls, "to
convey with clearness my opinion of the story this young man has related,
it is necessary to take a review of all the stories that have ever"---"My
good FADLADEEN!" exclaimed the Princess, interrupting him, "we really do
not deserve that you should give yourself so much trouble. Your opinion of
the poem we have just heard, will I have no doubt be abundantly edifying
without any further waste of your valuable erudition."--"If that be all,"
replied the critic,--evidently mortified at not being allowed to show how
much he knew about everything but the subject immediately before him--"if
that be all that is required the matter is easily despatched." He then
proceeded to analyze the poem, in that strain (so well known to the
unfortunate bards of Delhi), whose censures were an infliction from which
few recovered and whose very praises were like the honey extracted from
the bitter flowers of the aloe. The chief personages of the story were, if
he rightly understood them, an ill-favored gentleman with a veil over his
face;--a young lady whose reason went and came according as it suited the
poet's convenience to be sensible or otherwise;--and a youth in one of
those hideous Bokharian bonnets, who took the aforesaid gentleman in a
veil for a Divinity. "From such materials," said he, "what can be
expected?--after rivalling each other in long speeches and absurdities
through some thousands of lines as indigestible as the filberts of Berdaa,
our friend in the veil jumps into a tub of aquafortis; the young lady dies
in a set speech whose only recommendation is that it is her last; and the
lover lives on to a good old age for the laudable purpose of seeing her
ghost which he at last happily accomplishes, and expires. This you will
allow is a fair summary of the story; and if Nasser, the Arabian merchant,
told no better, our Holy Prophet (to whom be all honor and glory!) had no
need to be jealous of his abilities for story-telling."

With respect to the style, it was worthy of the matter;--it had not even
those politic contrivances of structure which make up for the commonness
of the thoughts by the peculiarity of the manner nor that stately poetical
phraseology by which sentiments mean in themselves, like the blacksmith's
[138] apron converted into a banner, are so easily gilt and embroidered
into consequence. Then as to the versification it was, to say no worse of
it, execrable: it had neither the copious flow of Ferdosi, the sweetness
of Hafez, nor the sententious march of Sadi; but appeared to him in the
uneasy heaviness of its movements to have been modelled upon the gait of a
very tired dromedary. The licenses too in which it indulged were
unpardonable;--for instance this line, and the poem abounded with such;--

  Like the faint, exquisite music of a dream.

"What critic that can count," said FADLADEEN, "and has his full complement
of fingers to count withal, would tolerate for an instant such syllabic
superfluities?"--He here looked round, and discovered that most of his
audience were asleep; while the glimmering lamps seemed inclined to follow
their example. It became necessary therefore, however painful to himself,
to put an end to his valuable animadversions for the present and he
accordingly concluded with an air of dignified candor, thus:--

"Notwithstanding the observations which I have thought it my duty to make,
it is by no means my wish to discourage the young man:--so far from it
indeed that if he will but totally alter his style of writing and thinking
I have very little doubt that I shall be vastly pleased with him."

Some days elapsed after this harangue of the Great Chamberlain before
LALLA ROOKH could venture to ask for another story. The youth was still a
welcome guest in the pavilion--to _one_ heart perhaps too dangerously
welcome;--but all mention of poetry was as if by common consent avoided.
Though none of the party had much respect for FADLADEEN, yet his censures
thus magisterially delivered evidently made an impression on them all. The
Poet himself to whom criticism was quite a new operation, (being wholly
unknown in that Paradise of the Indies, Cashmere,) felt the shock as it is
generally felt at first, till use has made it more tolerable to the
patient;--the Ladies began to suspect that they ought not to be pleased
and seemed to conclude that there must have been much good sense in what
FADLADEEN said from its having set them all so soundly to sleep;--while
the self-complacent Chamberlain was left to triumph in the idea of having
for the hundred and fiftieth time in his life extinguished a Poet. LALLA
ROOKH alone--and Love knew why--persisted in being delighted with all she
had heard and in resolving to hear more as speedily as possible. Her
manner however of first returning to the subject was unlucky. It was while
they rested during the heat of noon near a fountain on which some hand had
rudely traced those well-known words from the Garden of Sadi.--"Many like
me have viewed this fountain, but they are gone and their eyes are closed
for ever!"--that she took occasion from the melancholy beauty of this
passage to dwell upon the charms of poetry in general. "It is true," she
said, "few poets can imitate that sublime bird which flies always in the
air and never touches the earth:[139]--it is only once in many ages a
Genius appears whose words, like those on the Written Mountain last for
ever:[140]--but still there are some as delightful perhaps, though not so
wonderful, who if not stars over our head are at least flowers along our
path and whose sweetness of the moment we ought gratefully to inhale
without calling upon them for a brightness and a durability beyond their
nature. In short," continued she, blushing as if conscious of being caught
in an oration, "it is quite cruel that a poet cannot wander through his
regions of enchantment without having a critic for ever, like the old Man
of the Sea, upon his back!"[141]--FADLADEEN, it was plain took this last
luckless allusion to himself and would treasure it up in his mind as a
whetstone for his next criticism. A sudden silence ensued; and the
Princess, glancing a look at FERAMORZ, saw plainly she must wait for a
more courageous moment.

But the glories of Nature and her wild, fragrant airs playing freshly over
the current of youthful spirits will soon heal even deeper wounds than the
dull Fadladeens of this world can inflict. In an evening or two after,
they came to the small Valley of Gardens which had been planted by order
of the Emperor for his favorite sister Rochinara during their progress to
Cashmere some years before; and never was there a more sparkling
assemblage of sweets since the Gulzar-e-Irem or Rose-bower of Irem. Every
precious flower was there to be found that poetry or love or religion has
ever consecrated; from the dark hyacinth to which Hafez compares his
mistress's hair to be _Camalata_ by whose rosy blossoms the heaven of
Indra is scented.[142] As they sat in the cool fragrance of this
delicious spot and LALLA ROOKH remarked that she could fancy it the abode
of that flower-loving Nymph whom they worship in the temples of Kathay,
[143] or of one of those Peris, those beautiful creatures of the air who
live upon perfumes and to whom a place like this might make some amends
for the Paradise they have lost,--the young Poet in whose eyes she
appeared while she spoke to be one of the bright spiritual creatures she
was describing said hesitatingly that he remembered a Story of a Peri,
which if the Princess had no objection he would venture to relate. "It
is," said he, with an appealing look to FADLADEEN, "in a lighter and
humbler strain than the other:" then, striking a few careless but
melancholy chords on his kitar, he thus began:--


PARADISE AND THE PERI.


One morn a Peri at the gate
Of Eden stood disconsolate;
And as she listened to the Springs
  Of Life within like music flowing
And caught the light upon her wings
  Thro' the half-open portal glowing,
She wept to think her recreant race
Should e'er have lost that glorious place!

"How happy," exclaimed this child of air,
"Are the holy Spirits who wander there
  "Mid flowers that never shall fade or fall;
"Tho' mine are the gardens of earth and sea
"And the stars themselves have flowers for me,
  "One blossom of Heaven out-blooms them all!

"Tho' sunny the Lake of cool CASHMERE
"With its plane-tree Isle reflected clear,[144]
  "And sweetly the founts of that Valley fall;
"Tho' bright are the waters of SING-SU-HAY
And the golden floods that thitherward stray,[145]
Yet--oh, 'tis only the Blest can say
  How the waters of Heaven outshine them all!

"Go, wing thy flight from star to star,
From world to luminous world as far
  As the universe spreads its flaming wall:
Take all the pleasures of all the spheres
And multiply each thro' endless years
  One minute of Heaven is worth them all!"

The glorious Angel who was keeping
The gates of Light beheld her weeping,
And as he nearer drew and listened
To her sad song, a tear-drop glistened
Within his eyelids, like the spray
  From Eden's fountain when it lies
On the blue flower which--Bramins say--
  Blooms nowhere but in Paradise.[146]

"Nymph of a fair but erring line!"
Gently he said--"One hope is thine.
'Tis written in the Book of Fate,
  _The Peri yet may be forgiven
Who brings to this Eternal gate
  The Gift that is most dear to Heaven_!
Go seek it and redeem thy sin--
'Tis sweet to let the Pardoned in."

Rapidly as comets run
To the embraces of the Sun;--
Fleeter than the starry brands
Flung at night from angel hands[147]
At those dark and daring sprites
Who would climb the empyreal heights,
Down the blue vault the PERI flies,
  And lighted earthward by a glance
That just then broke from morning's eyes,
  Hung hovering o'er our world's expanse.

But whither shall the Spirit go
To find this gift for Heaven;--"I know
The wealth," she cries, "of every urn
In which unnumbered rubies burn
Beneath the pillars of CHILMINAR:[148]
I know where the Isles of Perfume are[149]
Many a fathom down in the sea,
To the south of sun-bright ARABY;[150]
I know too where the Genii hid
The jewelled cup of their King JAMSHID,[151]
"With Life's elixir sparkling high--
"But gifts like these are not for the sky.
"Where was there ever a gem that shone
"Like the steps of ALLA'S wonderful Throne?
"And the Drops of Life--oh! what would they be
"In the boundless Deep of Eternity?"

While thus she mused her pinions fanned
The air of that sweet Indian land
Whose air is balm, whose ocean spreads
O'er coral rocks and amber beds,[152]
Whose mountains pregnant by the beam
Of the warm sun with diamonds teem,
Whose rivulets are like rich brides,
Lovely, with gold beneath their tides,
Whose sandal groves and bowers of spice
Might be a Peri's Paradise!
But crimson now her rivers ran
  With human blood--the smell of death
Came reeking from those spicy bowers,
And man the sacrifice of man
  Mingled his taint with every breath
Upwafted from the innocent flowers.
Land of the Sun! what foot invades
Thy Pagods and thy pillared shades--
Thy cavern shrines and Idol stones,
Thy Monarch and their thousand Thrones?[153]

'Tis He of GAZNA[154], fierce in wrath
  He comes and INDIA'S diadems
Lie scattered in his ruinous path.-
  His bloodhounds he adorns with gems,
Torn from the violated necks
  Of many a young and loved Sultana;[155]
  Maidens within their pure Zenana,
  Priests in the very fane he slaughters,
And chokes up with the glittering wrecks
  Of golden shrines the sacred waters!
Downward the PERI turns her gaze,
And thro' the war-field's bloody haze
Beholds a youthful warrior stand
Alone beside his native river,--
The red blade broken in his hand
And the last arrow in his quiver.
"Live," said the Conqueror, "live to share
"The trophies and the crowns I bear!"
Silent that youthful warrior stood--
Silent he pointed to the flood
All crimson with his country's blood,
Then sent his last remaining dart,
For answer, to the Invader's heart.

False flew the shaft tho' pointed well;
The Tyrant lived, the Hero fell!--
Yet marked the PERI where he lay,
  And when the rush of war was past
Swiftly descending on a ray
  Of morning light she caught the last--
Last glorious drop his heart had shed
Before its free-born spirit fled!

"Be this," she cried, as she winged her flight,
"My welcome gift at the Gates of Light.
"Tho' foul are the drops that oft distil
  "On the field of warfare, blood like this
  "For Liberty shed so holy is,
"It would not stain the purest rill
  "That sparkles among the Bowers of Bliss!
"Oh, if there be on this earthly sphere
"A boon, an offering Heaven holds dear,
"'Tis the last libation Liberty draws
"From the heart that bleeds and breaks in her cause!"
"Sweet," said the Angel, as she gave
The gift into his radiant hand,
"Sweet is our welcome of the Brave
  "Who die thus for their native Land.--
"But see--alas! the crystal bar
"Of Eden moves not--holier far
"Than even this drop the boon must be
"That opes the Gates of Heaven for thee!"

Her first fond hope of Eden blighted,
  Now among AFRIC'S lunar Mountains[156]
Far to the South the PERI lighted
  And sleeked her plumage at the fountains
Of that Egyptian tide whose birth
Is hidden from the sons of earth
Deep in those solitary woods
Where oft the Genii of the Floods
Dance round the cradle of their Nile
And hail the new-born Giant's smile.[157]
Thence over EGYPT'S palmy groves
  Her grots, and sepulchres of Kings,[158]
The exiled Spirit sighing roves
And now hangs listening to the doves
In warm ROSETTA'S vale;[159] now loves
  To watch the moonlight on the wings
Of the white pelicans that break
The azure calm of MOERIS' Lake.[160]
'Twas a fair scene: a Land more bright
  Never did mortal eye behold!
Who could have thought that saw this night
  Those valleys and their fruits of gold
Basking in Heaven's serenest light,
Those groups of lovely date-trees bending
  Languidly their leaf-crowned heads,
Like youthful maids, when sleep descending
  Warns them to their silken beds,[161]
Those virgin lilies all the night
  Bathing their beauties in the lake
That they may rise more fresh and bright,
  When their beloved Sun's awake,
Those ruined shrines and towers that seem
The relics of a splendid dream,
  Amid whose fairy loneliness
Naught but the lapwing's cry is heard,--
Naught seen but (when the shadows flitting,
Fast from the moon unsheath its gleam,)
Some purple-winged Sultana sitting[162]
  Upon a column motionless
And glittering like an Idol bird!--
Who could have thought that there, even there,
Amid those scenes so still and fair,
The Demon of the Plague hath cast
From his hot wing a deadlier blast,
More mortal far than ever came
From the red Desert's sands of flame!
So quick that every living thing
Of human shape touched by his wing,
Like plants, where the Simoom hath past
At once falls black and withering!
The sun went down on many a brow
  Which, full of bloom and freshness then,
Is rankling in the pest-house now
  And ne'er will feel that sun again,
And, oh! to see the unburied heaps
On which the lonely moonlight sleeps--
The very vultures turn away,
And sicken at so foul a prey!
Only the fierce hyaena stalks[163]
Throughout the city's desolate walks[164]
At midnight and his carnage plies:--
  Woe to the half-dead wretch who meets
The glaring of those large blue eyes
  Amid the darkness of the streets!

"Poor race of men!" said the pitying Spirit,
  "Dearly ye pay for your primal Fall--
"Some flowerets of Eden ye still inherit,
  "But the trail of the Serpent is over them all!"
She wept--the air grew pure and clear
  Around her as the bright drops ran,
For there's a magic in each tear
  Such kindly Spirits weep for man!

Just then beneath some orange trees
Whose fruit and blossoms in the breeze
Were wantoning together, free,
Like age at play with infancy--
Beneath that fresh and springing bower
  Close by the Lake she heard the moan
Of one who at this silent hour,
  Had thither stolen to die alone.
One who in life where'er he moved,
  Drew after him the hearts of many;
Yet now, as tho' he ne'er were loved,
  Dies here unseen, unwept by any!
None to watch near him--none to slake
  The fire that in his bosom lies,
With even a sprinkle from that lake
  Which shines so cool before his eyes.
No voice well known thro' many a day
  To speak the last, the parting word
Which when all other sounds decay
  Is still like distant music heard;--
That tender farewell on the shore
Of this rude world when all is o'er,
Which cheers the spirit ere its bark
Puts off into the unknown Dark.

Deserted youth! one thought alone
  Shed joy around his soul in death
That she whom he for years had known,
And loved and might have called his own
  Was safe from this foul midnight's breath,--
Safe in her father's princely halls
Where the cool airs from fountain falls,
Freshly perfumed by many a brand
Of the sweet wood from India's land,
Were pure as she whose brow they fanned.

But see--who yonder comes by stealth,
  This melancholy bower to seek,
Like a young envoy sent by Health
  With rosy gifts upon her cheek?
'Tis she--far off, thro' moonlight dim
  He knew his own betrothed bride,
She who would rather die with him
  Than live to gain the world beside!--
Her arms are round her lover now,
  His livid cheek to hers she presses
And dips to bind his burning brow
  In the cool lake her loosened tresses.
Ah! once, how little did he think
An hour would come when he should shrink
With horror from that dear embrace,
  Those gentle arms that were to him
Holy as is the cradling place
  Of Eden's infant cherubim!
And now he yields--now turns away,
Shuddering as if the venom lay
All in those proffered lips alone--
Those lips that then so fearless grown
Never until that instant came
Near his unasked or without shame.
"Oh! let me only breathe the air.
"The blessed air, that's breathed by thee,
"And whether on its wings it bear
  "Healing or death 'tis sweet to me!
"There--drink my tears while yet they fall--
  "Would that my bosom's blood were balm,
"And, well thou knowst, I'd shed it all
  "To give thy brow one minute's calm.
"Nay, turn not from me that dear face--
  "Am I not thine--thy own loved bride--
"The one, the chosen one, whose place
  "In life or death is by thy side?
"Thinkst thou that she whose only light,
  "In this dim world from thee hath shone
"Could bear the long, the cheerless night
  "That must be hers when thou art gone?
"That I can live and let thee go,
"Who art my life itself?--No, no--
"When the stem dies the leaf that grew
"Out of its heart must perish too!
"Then turn to me, my own love, turn,
"Before, like thee, I fade and burn;
"Cling to these yet cool lips and share
"The last pure life that lingers there!"
She fails--she sinks--as dies the lamp
In charnel airs or cavern-damp,
So quickly do his baleful sighs
Quench all the sweet light of her eyes,
One struggle--and his pain is past--
  Her lover is no longer living!
One kiss the maiden gives, one last,
  Long kiss, which she expires in giving!

"Sleep," said the PERI, as softly she stole
The farewell sigh of that vanishing soul,
As true as e'er warmed a woman's breast--
"Sleep on, in visions of odor rest
"In balmier airs than ever yet stirred
"The enchanted pile of that lonely bird
"Who sings at the last his own death-lay[165]
"And in music and perfume dies away!"
Thus saying, from her lips she spread
  Unearthly breathings thro' the place
And shook her sparkling wreath and shed
  Such lustre o'er each paly face
That like two lovely saints they seemed,
  Upon the eve of doomsday taken
From their dim graves in ordor sleeping;
  While that benevolent PERI beamed
Like their good angel calmly keeping
  Watch o'er them till their souls would waken.

But morn is blushing in the sky;
  Again the PERI soars above,
Bearing to Heaven that precious sigh
  Of pure, self-sacrificing love.
High throbbed her heart with hope elate
  The Elysian palm she soon shall win.
For the bright Spirit at the gate
  Smiled as she gave that offering in;
And she already hears the trees
  Of Eden with their crystal bells
Ringing in that ambrosial breeze
  That from the throne of ALLA swells;
And she can see the starry bowls
  That lie around that lucid lake
Upon whose banks admitted Souls
  Their first sweet draught of glory take![166]

But, ah! even PERIS' hopes are vain--
Again the Fates forbade, again
The immortal barrier closed--"Not yet,"
The Angel said as with regret
He shut from her that glimpse of glory--
"True was the maiden, and her story
"Written in light o'er ALLA'S head
"By seraph eyes shall long be read.
"But, PERI, see--the crystal bar
"Of Eden moves not--holier far
"Than even this sigh the boon must be
"That opes the Gates of Heaven for thee."

  Now upon SYRIA'S land of roses[167]
Softly the light of Eve reposes,
And like a glory the broad sun
Hangs over sainted LEBANON,
Whose head in wintry grandeur towers
  And whitens with eternal sleet,
While summer in a vale of flowers
  Is sleeping rosy at his feet.

To one who looked from upper air
O'er all the enchanted regions there,
How beauteous must have been the glow,
The life, the sparkling from below!
Fair gardens, shining streams, with ranks
Of golden melons on their banks,
More golden where the sunlight falls;--
Gay lizards, glittering on the walls[168]
Of ruined shrines, busy and bright
As they were all alive with light;
And yet more splendid numerous flocks
Of pigeons settling on the rocks
With their rich restless wings that gleam
Variously in the crimson beam
Of the warm West,--as if inlaid
With brilliants from the mine or made
Of tearless rainbows such as span
The unclouded skies of PERISTAN.
And then the mingling sounds that come,
Of shepherd's ancient reed,[169] with hum
Of the wild bees of PALESTINE,[170]
  Banqueting thro' the flowery vales;
And, JORDAN, those sweet banks of thine
  And woods so full of nightingales.[171]
But naught can charm the luckless PERI;
Her soul is sad--her wings are weary--
Joyless she sees the Sun look down
On that great Temple once his own,[172]
Whose lonely columns stand sublime,
Flinging their shadows from on high
Like dials which the Wizard Time
Had raised to count his ages by!

Yet haply there may lie concealed
  Beneath those Chambers of the Sun
Some amulet of gems, annealed
In upper fires, some tablet sealed
  With the great name of SOLOMON,
  Which spelled by her illumined eyes,
May teach her where beneath the moon,
In earth or ocean, lies the boon,
The charm, that can restore so soon
  An erring Spirit to the skies.

Cheered by this hope she bends her thither;--
  Still laughs the radiant eye of Heaven,
  Nor have the golden bowers of Even
In the rich West begun to wither;--
When o'er the vale of BALBEC winging
  Slowly she sees a child at play,
Among the rosy wild flowers singing,
  As rosy and as wild as they;
Chasing with eager hands and eyes
The beautiful blue damsel-flies,[173]
That fluttered round the jasmine stems
Like winged flowers or flying gems:--
And near the boy, who tired with play
Now nestling mid the roses lay.
She saw a wearied man dismount
  From his hot steed and on the brink
Of a small imaret's rustic fount
  Impatient fling him down to drink.
Then swift his haggard brow he turned
  To the fair child who fearless sat,
Tho' never yet hath day-beam burned
  Upon a brow more fierce than that,--
Sullenly fierce--a mixture dire
Like thunder-clouds of gloom and fire;
In which the PERI'S eye could read
Dark tales of many a ruthless deed;
The ruined maid--the shrine profaned--
Oaths broken--and the threshold stained
With blood of guests!--_there_ written, all,
Black as the damning drops that fall
From the denouncing Angel's pen,
Ere Mercy weeps them out again.
Yet tranquil now that man of crime
(As if the balmy evening time
Softened his spirit) looked and lay,
Watching the rosy infant's play:--
Tho' still whene'er his eye by chance
Fell on the boy's, its lucid glance
  Met that unclouded, joyous gaze,
As torches that have burnt all night
Tho' some impure and godless rite,
  Encounter morning's glorious rays.

But, hark! the vesper call to prayer,
  As slow the orb of daylight sets,
Is rising sweetly on the air.
  From SYRIA'S thousand minarets!
The boy has started from the bed
Of flowers where he had laid his head.
And down upon the fragrant sod
  Kneels[174] with his forehead to the south
Lisping the eternal name of God
  From Purity's own cherub mouth,
And looking while his hands and eyes
Are lifted to the glowing skies
Like a stray babe of Paradise
Just lighted on that flowery plain
And seeking for its home again.
Oh! 'twas a sight--that Heaven--that child--
A scene, which might have well beguiled
Even haughty EBLIS of a sigh
For glories lost and peace gone by!
And how felt _he_, the wretched Man
Reclining there--while memory ran
O'er many a year of guilt and strife,
Flew o'er the dark flood of his life,
Nor found one sunny resting-place.
Nor brought him back one branch of grace.
"There _was_ a time," he said, in mild,
Heart-humbled tones--"thou blessed child!
"When young and haply pure as thou
"I looked and prayed like thee--but now"--
He hung his head--each nobler aim
  And hope and feeling which had slept
From boyhood's hour that instant came
  Fresh o'er him and he wept--he wept!

Blest tears of soul-felt penitence!
  In whose benign, redeeming flow
Is felt the first, the only sense
  Of guiltless joy that guilt can know.
"There's a drop," said the PERI, "that down from the moon
"Falls thro' the withering airs of June
"Upon EGYPT'S land,[175] of so healing a power,
"So balmy a virtue, that even in the hour
"That drop descends contagion dies
"And health reanimates earth and skies!--
"Oh, is it not thus, thou man of sin,
  "The precious tears of repentance fall?
"Tho' foul thy fiery plagues within
  "One heavenly drop hath dispelled them all!"
And now--behold him kneeling there
By the child's side, in humble prayer,
While the same sunbeam shines upon
The guilty and the guiltless one.
And hymns of joy proclaim thro' Heaven
The triumph of a Soul Forgiven!

'Twas when the golden orb had set,
While on their knees they lingered yet,
There fell a light more lovely far
Than ever came from sun or star,
Upon the tear that, warm and meek,
Dewed that repentant sinner's cheek.
To mortal eye this light might seem
A northern flash or meteor beam--
But well the enraptured PERI knew
'Twas a bright smile the Angel threw
From Heaven's gate to hail that tear
Her harbinger of glory near!

"Joy, joy for ever! my task is done--
"The Gates are past and Heaven is won!
"Oh! am I not happy? I am, I am--
  "To thee, sweet Eden! how dark and sad
"Are the diamond turrets of SHADUKIAM,[176]
  "And the fragrant bowers of AMBERABAD!

"Farewell ye odors of Earth that die
"Passing away like a lover's sigh;--
"My feast is now of the Tooba Tree[177]
"Whose scent is the breath of Eternity!

"Farewell, ye vanishing flowers that shone
  "In my fairy wreath so bright an' brief;--
"Oh! what are the brightest that e'er have blown
"To the lote-tree springing by ALLA'S throne[178]
  "Whose flowers have a soul in every leaf.
"Joy, joy for ever.--my task is done--
"The Gates are past and Heaven is won!"


"And this," said the Great Chamberlain, "is poetry! this flimsy
manufacture of the brain, which in comparison with the lofty and durable
monuments of genius is as the gold filigree-work of Zamara beside the
eternal architecture of Egypt!" After this gorgeous sentence, which, with
a few more of the same kind, FADLADEEN kept by him for rare and important
occasions, he proceeded to the anatomy of the short poem just recited. The
lax and easy kind of metre in which it was written ought to be denounced,
he said, as one of the leading causes of the alarming growth of poetry in
our times. If some check were not given to this lawless facility we should
soon be overrun by a race of bards as numerous and as shallow as the
hundred and twenty thousand Streams of Basra.[179] They who succeeded in
this style deserved chastisement for their very success;--as warriors have
been punished even after gaining a victory because they had taken the
liberty of gaining it in an irregular or unestablished manner. What then
was to be said to those who failed? to those who presumed as in the
present lamentable instance to imitate the licence and ease of the bolder
sons of song without any of that grace or vigor which gave a dignity even
to negligence;--who like them flung the jereed[180] carelessly, but not,
like them, to the mark;--"and who," said he, raising his voice to excite a
proper degree of wakefulness in his hearers, "contrive to appear heavy and
constrained in the midst of all the latitude they allow themselves, like
one of those young pagans that dance before the Princess, who is ingenious
enough to move as if her limbs were fettered, in a pair of the lightest
and loosest drawers of Masulipatam!"

It was but little suitable, he continued, to the grave march of criticism
to follow this fantastical Peri of whom they had just heard, through all
her flights and adventures between earth and heaven, but he could not help
adverting to the puerile conceitedness of the Three Gifts which she is
supposed to carry to the skies,--a drop of blood, forsooth, a sigh, and a
tear! How the first of these articles was delivered into the Angel's
"radiant hand" he professed himself at a loss to discover; and as to the
safe carriage of the sigh and the tear, such Peris and such poets were
beings by far too incomprehensible for him even to guess how they managed
such matters. "But, in short," said he, "it is a waste of time and
patience to dwell longer upon a thing so incurably frivolous,--puny even
among its own puny race, and such as only the Banyan Hospital[181] for
Sick Insects should undertake."

In vain did LALLA ROOKH try to soften this inexorable critic; in vain did
she resort to her most eloquent commonplaces, reminding him that poets
were a timid and sensitive race whose sweetness was not to be drawn forth
like that of the fragrant grass near the Ganges by crushing and trampling
upon them,[182] that severity often extinguished every chance of the
perfection which it demanded, and that after all perfection was like the
Mountain of the Talisman,--no one had ever yet reached its summit.[183]
Neither these gentle axioms nor the still gentler looks with which they
were inculcated could lower for one instant the elevation of FADLADEEN'S
eyebrows or charm him into anything like encouragement or even toleration
of her poet. Toleration, indeed, was not among the weaknesses of
FADLADEEN:--he carried the same spirit into matters of poetry and of
religion, and though little versed in the beauties or sublimities of
either was a perfect master of the art of persecution in both. His zeal
was the same too in either pursuit, whether the game before him was pagans
or poetasters, worshippers of cows, or writers of epics.

They had now arrived at the splendid city of Lahore whose mausoleums and
shrines, magnificent and numberless where Death appeared to share equal
honors with Heaven would have powerfully affected the heart and
imagination of LALLA ROOKH, if feelings more of this earth had not taken
entire possession of her already. She was here met by messengers
despatched from Cashmere who informed her that the King had arrived in the
Valley and was himself superintending the sumptuous preparations that were
then making in the Saloons of the Shalimar for her reception. The chill
she felt on receiving this intelligence,--which to a bride whose heart was
free and light would have brought only images of affection and
pleasure,--convinced her that her peace was gone for ever and that she was
in love, irretrievably in love, with young FERAMORZ. The veil had fallen
off in which this passion at first disguises itself, and to know that she
loved was now as painful as to love without knowing it had been delicious.
FERAMORZ, too,--what misery would be his, if the sweet hours of
intercourse so imprudently allowed them should have stolen into his heart
the same fatal fascination as into hers;--if, notwithstanding her rank and
the modest homage he always paid to it, even _he_ should have yielded to
the influence of those long and happy interviews where music, poetry, the
delightful scenes of nature,--all had tended to bring their hearts close
together and to waken by every means that too ready passion which often
like the young of the desert-bird is warmed into life by the eyes alone!
[184] She saw but one way to preserve herself from being culpable as well
as unhappy, and this however painful she was resolved to adopt. FERAMORZ
must no more be admitted to her presence. To have strayed so far into the
dangerous labyrinth was wrong, but to linger in it while the clew was yet
in her hand would be criminal. Though the heart she had to offer to the
King of Bucharia might be cold and broken, it should at least be pure, and
she must only endeavor to forget the short dream of happiness she had
enjoyed,--like that Arabian shepherd who in wandering into the wilderness
caught a glimpse of the Gardens of Irim and then lost them again for ever!

The arrival of the young Bride at Lahore was celebrated in the most
enthusiastic manner. The Rajas and Omras in her train, who had kept at a
certain distance during the journey and never encamped nearer to the
Princess than was strictly necessary for her safeguard here rode in
splendid cavalcade through the city and distributed the most costly
presents to the crowd. Engines were erected in all the squares which cast
forth showers of confectionery among the people, while the artisans in
chariots[185] adorned with tinsel and flying streamers exhibited the
badges of their respective trades through the streets. Such brilliant
displays of life and pageantry among the palaces and domes and gilded
minarets of Lahore made the city altogether like a place of
enchantment;--particularly on the day when LALLA ROOKH set out again upon
her journey, when she was accompanied to the gate by all the fairest and
richest of the nobility and rode along between ranks of beautiful boys and
girls who kept waving over their heads plates of gold and silver
flowers,[186] and then threw them around to be gathered by the populace.

For many days after their departure from Lahore a considerable degree of
gloom hung over the whole party. LALLA ROOKH, who had intended to make
illness her excuse for not admitting the young minstrel, as usual, to the
pavilion, soon found that to feign indisposition was unnecessary;--
FADLADEEN felt the loss of the good road they had hitherto travelled and
was very near cursing Jehan-Guire (of blessed memory!) for not having
continued his delectable alley of trees[187] a least as far as the
mountains of Cashmere;--while the Ladies who had nothing now to do all day
but to be fanned by peacocks' feathers and listen to FADLADEEN seemed
heartily weary of the life they led and in spite of all the Great
Chamberlain's criticisms were so tasteless as to wish for the poet again.
One evening as they were proceeding to their place of rest for the night
the Princess who for the freer enjoyment of the air had mounted her
favorite Arabian palfrey, in passing by a small grove heard the notes of a
lute from within its leaves and a voice which she but too well knew
singing the following words:--

  Tell me not of joys above,
    If that world can give no bliss,
  Truer, happier than the Love
    Which enslaves our souls in this.

  Tell me not of Houris' eyes;--
    Far from me their dangerous glow.
  If those looks that light the skies
    Wound like some that burn below.

  Who that feels what Love is here,
    All its falsehood--all its pain--
  Would, for even Elysium's sphere,
    Risk the fatal dream again?

  Who that midst a desert's heat
    Sees the waters fade away
  Would not rather die than meet
    Streams again as false as they?

The tone of melancholy defiance in which these words were uttered went to
LALLA ROOKH'S heart;--and as she reluctantly rode on she could not help
feeling it to be a sad but still sweet certainty that FERAMORZ was to the
full as enamored and miserable as herself.

The place where they encamped that evening was the first delightful spot
they had come to since they left Lahore. On one side of them was a grove
full of small Hindoo temples and planted with the most graceful trees of
the East, where the tamarind, the cassia, and the silken plantains of
Ceylon were mingled in rich contrast with the high fan-like foliage of the
Palmyra,--that favorite tree of the luxurious bird that lights up the
chambers of its nest with fire-flies.[188]. In the middle of the lawn
where the pavilion stood there was a tank surrounded by small mango-trees
on the clear cold waters of which floated multitudes of the beautiful red
lotus,[189] while at a distance stood the ruins of a strange and awful-
looking tower which seemed old enough to have been the temple of some
religion no longer known and which spoke the voice of desolation in the
midst of all that bloom and loveliness. This singular ruin excited the
wonder and conjectures of all. LALLA ROOKH guessed in vain, and the all-
pretending FADLADEEN who had never till this journey been beyond the
precincts of Delhi was proceeding most learnedly to show that he knew
nothing whatever about the matter, when one of the Ladies suggested that
perhaps FERAMORZ could satisfy their curiosity. They were now approaching
his native mountains and this tower might perhaps be a relic of some of
those dark superstitions which had prevailed in that country before the
light of Islam dawned upon it. The Chamberlain who usually preferred his
own ignorance to the best knowledge that any one else could give him was
by no means pleased with this officious reference, and the Princess too
was about to interpose a faint word of objection, but before either of
them could speak a slave was despatched for FERAMORZ, who in a very few
minutes made his appearance before them--looking so pale and unhappy in
LALLA ROOKH'S eyes that she repented already of her cruelty in having so
long excluded him.

That venerable tower he told them was the remains of an ancient Fire-
Temple, built by those Ghebers or Persians of the old religion, who many
hundred years since had fled hither from the Arab conquerors, preferring
liberty and their altars in a foreign land to the alternative of apostasy
or persecution in their own. It was impossible, he added, not to feel
interested in the many glorious but unsuccessful struggles which had been
made by these original natives of Persia to cast off the yoke of their
bigoted conquerors. Like their own Fire in the Burning Field at Bakou when
suppressed in one place they had but broken out with fresh flame in
another; and as a native of Cashmere, of that fair and Holy Valley which
had in the same manner become the prey of strangers[190] and seen her
ancient shrines and native princes swept away before the march of her
intolerant invaders he felt a sympathy, he owned, with the sufferings of
the persecuted Ghebers which every monument like this before them but
tended more powerfully to awaken.

It was the first time that FERAMORZ had ever ventured upon so much
_prose_ before FADLADEEN and it may easily be conceived what effect such
prose as this must have produced upon that most orthodox and most pagan-
hating personage. He sat for some minutes aghast, ejaculating only at
intervals, "Bigoted conquerors!--sympathy with Fire-worshippers!"[191]--
while FERAMORZ happy to take advantage of this almost speechless horror of
the Chamberlain proceeded to say that he knew a melancholy story connected
with the events of one of those struggles of the brave Fire-worshippers
against their Arab masters, which if the evening was not too far advanced
he should have much pleasure in being allowed to relate to the Princess.
It was impossible for LALLA ROOKH to refuse;--he had never before looked
half so animated, and when he spoke of the Holy Valley his eyes had
sparkled she thought like the talismanic characters on the scimitar of
Solomon. Her consent was therefore most readily granted; and while
FADLADEEN sat in unspeakable dismay, expecting treason and abomination in
every line, the poet thus began his story of the Fire-worshippers:


THE FIRE-WORSHIPPERS.


'Tis moonlight over OMAN'S SEA;[192]
  Her banks of pearl and palmy isles
Bask in the night-beam beauteously
  And her blue waters sleep in smiles.
'Tis moonlight in HARMOZIA'S[193] walls,
And through her EMIR'S porphyry halls
Where some hours since was heard the swell
Of trumpets and the clash of zel[194]
Bidding the bright-eyed sun farewell;--
The peaceful sun whom better suits
  The music of the bulbul's nest
Or the light touch of lovers' lutes
  To sing him to his golden rest.
All husht--there's not a breeze in motion;
The shore is silent as the ocean.
If zephyrs come, so light they come.
  Nor leaf is stirred nor wave is driven;--
The wind-tower on the EMIR'S dome[195]
  Can hardly win a breath from heaven.

Even he, that tyrant Arab, sleeps
Calm, while a nation round him weeps,
While curses load the air he breathes
And falchions from unnumbered sheaths
Are starting to avenge the shame
His race hath brought on IRAN'S[196]name.
Hard, heartless Chief, unmoved alike
Mid eyes that weep and swords that strike;
One of that saintly, murderous brood,
  To carnage and the Koran given,
Who think thro' unbelievers' blood
  Lies their directest path to heaven,--
One who will pause and kneel unshod
  In the warm blood his hand hath poured,
To mutter o'er some text of God
  Engraven on his reeking sword;[197]
Nay, who can coolly note the line,
The letter of those words divine,
To which his blade with searching art
Had sunk into its victim's heart!

Just ALLA! what must be thy look
  When such a wretch before thee stands
Unblushing, with thy Sacred Book,--
  Turning the leaves with bloodstained hands,
And wresting from its page sublime
His creed of lust and hate and crime;--
Even as those bees of TREBIZOND,
  Which from the sunniest flowers that glad
With their pure smile the gardens round,
  Draw venom forth that drives men mad.[198]
Never did fierce Arabia send
  A satrap forth more direly great;
Never was IRAN doomed to bend
  Beneath a yoke of deadlier weight.
Her throne had fallen--her pride was crusht--
Her sons were willing slaves, nor blusht,
In their own land,--no more their own,--
To crouch beneath a stranger's throne.
Her towers where MITHRA once had burned.
To Moslem shrines--oh shame!--were turned,
Where slaves converted by the sword,
Their mean, apostate worship poured,
And curst the faith their sires adored.
Yet has she hearts, mid all this ill,
O'er all this wreck high buoyant still
With hope and vengeance;--hearts that yet--
  Like gems, in darkness, issuing rays
They've treasured from the sun that's set,--
  Beam all the light of long-lost days!
And swords she hath, nor weak nor slow
 To second all such hearts can dare:
As he shall know, well, dearly know.
  Who sleeps in moonlight luxury there,
Tranquil as if his spirit lay
Becalmed in Heaven's approving ray.
Sleep on--for purer eyes than thine
Those waves are husht, those planets shine;
Sleep on and be thy rest unmoved
  By the white moonbeam's dazzling power;--
None but the loving and the loved
  Should be awake at this sweet hour.

And see--where high above those rocks
  That o'er the deep their shadows fling.
Yon turret stands;--where ebon locks,
  As glossy as the heron's wing
  Upon the turban of a king,[199]
Hang from the lattice, long and wild,--
'Tis she, that EMIR'S blooming child,
All truth and tenderness and grace,
Tho' born of such ungentle race;--
An image of Youth's radiant Fountain
Springing in a desolate mountain![200]

Oh what a pure and sacred thing
  Is Beauty curtained from the sight
Of the gross world, illumining
  One only mansion with her light!
Unseen by man's disturbing eye,--
  The flower that blooms beneath the sea,
Too deep for sunbeams, doth not lie
  Hid in more chaste obscurity.
So, HINDA. have thy face and mind,
Like holy mysteries, lain enshrined.
And oh! what transport for a lover
  To lift the veil that shades them o'er!--
Like those who all at once discover
  In the lone deep some fairy shore
  Where mortal never trod before,
And sleep and wake in scented airs
No lip had ever breathed but theirs.

Beautiful are the maids that glide
  On summer-eves thro' YEMEN'S[201] dales,
And bright the glancing looks they hide
  Behind their litters' roseate veils;--
And brides as delicate and fair
As the white jasmine flowers they wear,
Hath YEMEN in her blissful clime,
  Who lulled in cool kiosk or bower,[202]
Before their mirrors count the time[203]
  And grow still lovelier every hour.
But never yet hath bride or maid
  In ARABY'S gay Haram smiled.
Whose boasted brightness would not fade
  Before AL HASSAN'S blooming child.

  Light as the angel shapes that bless
An infant's dream, yet not the less
Rich in all woman's loveliness;--
With eyes so pure that from their ray
Dark Vice would turn abasht away,
Blinded like serpents when they gaze
Upon the emerald's virgin blaze;[204]--
Yet filled with all youth's sweet desires,
Mingling the meek and vestal fires
Of other worlds with all the bliss,
The fond, weak tenderness of this:
A soul too more than half divine,
  Where, thro' some shades of earthly feeling,
Religion's softened glories shine,
  Like light thro' summer foliage stealing,
Shedding a glow of such mild hue,
So warm and yet so shadowy too,
As makes the very darkness there
More beautiful than light elsewhere.

Such is the maid who at this hour
  Hath risen from her restless sleep
And sits alone in that high bower,
  Watching the still and shining deep.
Ah! 'twas not thus,--with tearful eyes
  And beating heart,--she used to gaze
On the magnificent earth and skies,
  In her own land, in happier days.
Why looks she now so anxious down
Among those rocks whose rugged frown
  Blackens the mirror of the deep?
Whom waits she all this lonely night?
  Too rough the rocks, too bold the steep,
For man to scale that turret's height!--

So deemed at least her thoughtful sire,
  When high, to catch the cool night-air
After the day-beam's withering fire,[205]
  He built her bower of freshness there,
And had it deckt with costliest skill
  And fondly thought it safe as fair:--
Think, reverend dreamer! think so still,
  Nor wake to learn what Love can dare;--
Love, all defying Love, who sees
No charm in trophies won with ease;--
Whose rarest, dearest fruits of bliss
Are plucked on Danger's precipice!
Bolder than they who dare not dive
  For pearls but when the sea's at rest,
Love, in the tempest most alive,
  Hath ever held that pearl the best
He finds beneath the stormiest water.
Yes, ARABY'S unrivalled daughter,
Tho' high that tower, that rock-way rude,
  There's one who but to kiss thy cheek
Would climb the untrodden solitude
Of ARARAT'S tremendous peak,[206]
And think its steeps, tho' dark and dread,
Heaven's pathways, if to thee they led!
Even now thou seest the flashing spray,
That lights his oar's impatient way;--
Even now thou hearest the sudden shock
Of his swift bark against the rock,
And stretchest down thy arms of snow
As if to lift him from below!
Like her to whom at dead of night
The bridegroom with his locks of light[207]
Came in the flush of love and pride
And scaled the terrace of his bride;--
When as she saw him rashly spring,
And midway up in danger cling,
She flung him down her long black hair,
Exclaiming breathless, "There, love, there!"
And scarce did manlier nerve uphold
  The hero ZAL in that fond hour,
Than wings the youth who, fleet and bold,
  Now climbs the rocks to HINDA'S bower.
See-light as up their granite steeps
The rock-goats of ARABIA clamber,[208]
Fearless from crag to crag he leaps,
  And now is in the maiden's chamber.
She loves--but knows not whom she loves,
  Nor what his race, nor whence he came;--
Like one who meets in Indian groves
  Some beauteous bird without a name;
Brought by the last ambrosial breeze
From isles in the undiscovered seas,
To show his plumage for a day
To wondering eyes and wing away!
Will he thus fly--her nameless lover?
  ALLA forbid! 'twas by a moon
As fair as this, while singing over
Some ditty to her soft Kanoon,
Alone, at this same witching hour,
  She first beheld his radiant eyes
Gleam thro' the lattice of the bower,
  Where nightly now they mix their sighs;
And thought some spirit of the air
(For what could waft a mortal there?)
Was pausing on his moonlight way
To listen to her lonely lay!
This fancy ne'er hath left her mind:
  And--tho', when terror's swoon had past,
She saw a youth of mortal kind
  Before her in obeisance cast,--
Yet often since, when he hath spoken
Strange, awful words,--and gleams have broken
From his dark eyes, too bright to bear,
  Oh! she hath feared her soul was given
To some unhallowed child of air,
  Some erring spirit cast from heaven,
Like those angelic youths of old
Who burned for maids of mortal mould,
Bewildered left the glorious skies
And lost their heaven for woman's eyes.
Fond girl! nor fiend nor angel he
Who woos thy young simplicity;
But one of earth's impassioned sons,
  As warm in love, as fierce in ire
As the best heart whose current runs
  Full of the Day-God's living fire.

But quenched to-night that ardor seems,
  And pale his cheek and sunk his brow;--
Never before but in her dreams
  Had she beheld him pale as now:
And those were dreams of troubled sleep
From which 'twas joy to wake and weep;
Visions that will not be forgot,
  But sadden every waking scene
Like warning ghosts that leave the spot
  All withered where they once have been.

  "How sweetly," said the trembling maid,
Of her own gentle voice afraid,
So long had they in silence stood
Looking upon that tranquil flood--
"How sweetly does the moonbeam smile
"To-night upon yon leafy isle!
"Oft, in my fancy's wanderings,
"I've wisht that little isle had wings,
"And we within its fairy bowers
  "Were wafted off to seas unknown,
"Where not a pulse should beat but ours,
  "And we might live, love, die, alone!
"Far from the cruel and the cold,--
  "Where the bright eyes of angels only
"Should come around us to behold
  "A paradise so pure and lonely.
"Would this be world enough for thee?"--
Playful she turned that he might see
  The passing smile her cheek put on;
But when she markt how mournfully
  His eye met hers, that smile was gone;
And bursting into heart-felt tears,
"Yes, yes," she cried, "my hourly fears,
"My dreams have boded all too right--
"We part--for ever part--tonight!
"I knew, I knew it _could_ not last--
"'Twas bright, 'twas heavenly, but 'tis past!
"Oh! ever thus from childhood's hour
"I've seen my fondest hopes decay;
"I never loved a tree or flower,
  "But 'twas the first to fade away.
"I never nurst a dear gazelle
  "To glad me with its soft black eye
"But when it came to know me well
  "And love me it was sure to die I
"Now too--the joy most like divine
  "Of all I ever dreamt or knew,
"To see thee, hear thee, call thee mine,--
  "Oh misery! must I lose _that_ too?
"Yet go--on peril's brink we meet;--
  "Those frightful rocks--that treacherous sea--
"No, never come again--tho' sweet,
  "Tho' heaven, it may be death to thee.
"Farewell--and blessings on thy way,
  "Where'er thou goest, beloved stranger!
"Better to sit and watch that ray
"And think thee safe, tho' far away,
  "Than have thee near me and in danger!"

"Danger!--oh, tempt me not to boast"--
The youth exclaimed--"thou little know'st
"What he can brave, who, born and nurst
"In Danger's paths, has dared her worst;
"Upon whose ear the signal-word
  "Of strife and death is hourly breaking;
"Who sleeps with head upon the sword
  "His fevered hand must grasp in waking.
"Danger!"--
    "Say on--thou fearest not then,
"And we may meet--oft meet again?"

"Oh! look not so--beneath the skies
"I now fear nothing but those eyes.
"If aught on earth could charm or force
"My spirit from its destined course,--
"If aught could make this soul forget
"The bond to which its seal is set,
"'Twould be those eyes;--they, only they,
"Could melt that sacred seal away!
"But no--'tis fixt--_my_ awful doom
"Is fixt--on this side of the tomb
"We meet no more;--why, why did Heaven
"Mingle two souls that earth has riven,
"Has rent asunder wide as ours?
"Oh, Arab maid, as soon the Powers
"Of Light and Darkness may combine.
"As I be linkt with thee or thine!
"Thy Father"--
    "Holy ALLA save
  "His gray head from that lightning glance!
"Thou knowest him not--he loves the brave;
  "Nor lives there under heaven's expanse
"One who would prize, would worship thee
"And thy bold spirit more than he.
"Oft when in childhood I have played
  "With the bright falchion by his side,
"I've heard him swear his lisping maid
  "In time should be a warrior's bride.
"And still whene'er at Haram hours
"I take him cool sherbets and flowers,
"He tells me when in playful mood
  "A hero shall my bridegroom be,
"Since maids are best in battle wooed,
  "And won with shouts of victory!
"Nay, turn not from me--thou alone
"Art formed to make both hearts thy own.
"Go--join his sacred ranks--thou knowest
  "The unholy strife these Persians wage:--
"Good Heaven, that frown!--even now thou glowest
  "With more than mortal warrior's rage.
"Haste to the camp by morning's light,
"And when that sword is raised in fight,
"Oh still remember, Love and I
"Beneath its shadow trembling lie!
"One victory o'er those Slaves of Fire,
"Those impious Ghebers whom my sire
"Abhors"--
    "Hold, hold--thy words are death"--
  The stranger cried as wild he flung
His mantle back and showed beneath
  The Gheber belt that round him clung.[209]--
"Here, maiden, look--weep--blush to see
"All that thy sire abhors in me!
"Yes--_I_ am of that impious race,
  "Those Slaves of Fire who, morn and even,
"Hail their Creator's dwelling-place
  "Among the living lights of heaven:[210]
"Yes--_I_ am of that outcast few,
"To IRAN and to vengeance true,
"Who curse the hour your Arabs came
"To desolate our shrines of flame,
"And swear before God's burning eye
"To break our country's chains or die!
"Thy bigot sire,--nay, tremble not,--
  "He who gave birth to those dear eyes
"With me is sacred as the spot
  "From which our fires of worship rise!
"But know--'twas he I sought that night,
  "When from my watch-boat on the sea
"I caught this turret's glimmering light,
  "And up the rude rocks desperately
"Rusht to my prey--thou knowest the rest--
"I climbed the gory vulture's nest,
"And found a trembling dove within;--
"Thine, thine the victory--thine the sin--
"If Love hath made one thought his own,
"That Vengeance claims first--last--alone!
"Oh? had we never, never met,
"Or could this heart even now forget
"How linkt, how blest we might have been,
"Had fate not frowned so dark between!
"Hadst thou been born a Persian maid,
  "In neighboring valleys had we dwelt,
"Thro' the same fields in childhood played,
  "At the same kindling altar knelt,--
"Then, then, while all those nameless ties
"In which the charm of Country lies
"Had round our hearts been hourly spun,
"Till IRAN'S cause and thine were one;
"While in thy lute's awakening sigh
"I heard the voice of days gone by,
"And saw in every smile of thine
"Returning hours of glory shine;--
"While the wronged Spirit of our Land
  "Lived, lookt, and spoke her wrongs thro' thee,--
"God! who could then this sword withstand?
  "Its very flash were victory!
"But now--estranged, divorced for ever,
"Far as the grasp of Fate can sever;
"Our only ties what love has wove,--
"In faith, friends, country, sundered wide;
"And then, then only, true to love,
  "When false to all that's dear beside!
"Thy father IKAN'S deadliest foe--
"Thyself, perhaps, even now--but no--
"Hate never looked so lovely yet!
  No--sacred to thy soul will be
"The land of him who could forget
  "All but that bleeding land for thee.
"When other eyes shall see, unmoved,
  "Her widows mourn, her warriors fall,
"Thou'lt think how well one Gheber loved.
  "And for _his_ sake thou'lt weep for all!
"But look"--
    With sudden start he turned
  And pointed to the distant wave
Where lights like charnel meteors burned
  Bluely as o'er some seaman's grave;
And fiery darts at intervals[211]
  Flew up all sparkling from the main
As if each star that nightly falls
Were shooting back to heaven again.
"My signal lights!--I must away--
"Both, both are ruined, if I stay.
"Farewell--sweet life! thou clingest in vain--
"Now, Vengeance, I am thine again!"
Fiercely he broke away, nor stopt,
Nor lookt--but from the lattice dropt
Down mid the pointed crags beneath
As if he fled from love to death.
While pale and mute young HINDA stood,
Nor moved till in the silent flood
A momentary plunge below
Startled her from her trance of woe;--
Shrieking she to the lattice flew,
  "I come--I come--if in that tide
"Thou sleepest to-night, I'll sleep there too
  "In death's cold wedlock by thy side.
"Oh! I would ask no happier bed
  "Than the chill wave my love lies under:--
"Sweeter to rest together dead,
  "Far sweeter than to live asunder!"
But no--their hour is not yet come--
  Again she sees his pinnace fly,
Wafting him fleetly to his home,
  Where'er that ill-starred home may lie;
And calm and smooth it seemed to win
  Its moonlight way before the wind
As if it bore all peace within
  Nor left one breaking heart behind!


The Princess whose heart was sad enough already could have wished that
FERAMORZ had chosen a less melancholy story; as it is only to the happy
that tears are a luxury. Her Ladies however were by no means sorry that
love was once more the Poet's theme; for, whenever he spoke of love, they
said, his voice was as sweet as if he had chewed the leaves of that
enchanted tree, which grows over the tomb of the musician, Tan-Sein.[212]

Their road all the morning had lain through a very dreary country;--
through valleys, covered with a low bushy jungle, where in more than one
place the awful signal of the bamboo staff[213] with the white flag at
its top reminded the traveller that in that very spot the tiger had made
some human creature his victim. It was therefore with much pleasure that
they arrived at sunset in a safe and lovely glen and encamped under one of
those holy trees whose smooth columns and spreading roofs seem to destine
them for natural temples of religion. Beneath this spacious shade some
pious hands had erected a row of pillars ornamented with the most
beautiful porcelain[214] which now supplied the use of mirrors to the
young maidens as they adjusted their hair in descending from the
palankeens. Here while as usual the Princess sat listening anxiously with
FADLADEEN in one of his loftiest moods of criticism by her side the young
Poet leaning against a branch of the tree thus continued his story:--


The morn hath risen clear and calm
  And o'er the Green Sea[215] palely shines,
Revealing BAHREIN'S groves of palm
  And lighting KISHMA'S amber vines.
Fresh smell the shores of ARABY,
  While breezes from the Indian sea
Blow round SELAMA'S[216] sainted cape
  And curl the shining flood beneath,--
Whose waves are rich with many a grape
  And cocoa-nut and flowery wreath
Which pious seamen as they past
Had toward that holy headland cast--
Oblations to the Genii there
For gentle skies and breezes fair!
The nightingale now bends her flight[217]
From the high trees where all the night
  She sung so sweet with none to listen;
And hides her from the morning star
  Where thickets of pomegranate glisten
In the clear dawn,--bespangled o'er
  With dew whose night-drops would not stain
The best and brightest scimitar[218]
That ever youthful Sultan wore
  On the first morning of his reign.

And see--the Sun himself!--on wings
Of glory up the East he springs.
Angel of Light! who from the time
Those heavens began their march sublime,
Hath first of all the starry choir
Trod in his Maker's steps of fire!
  Where are the days, thou wondrous sphere,
When IRAN, like a sun-flower, turned
To meet that eye where'er it burned?--
  When from the banks of BENDEMEER
To the nut-groves of SAMARCAND
Thy temples flamed o'er all the land?
Where are they? ask the shades of them
  Who, on CADESSIA'S[219] bloody plains,
Saw fierce invaders pluck the gem
From IRAN'S broken diadem,
  And bind her ancient faith in chains:--
Ask the poor exile cast alone
On foreign shores, unloved, unknown,
Beyond the Caspian's Iron Gates,
  Or on the snowy Mossian mountains,
Far from his beauteous land of dates,
  Her jasmine bowers and sunny fountains:
Yet happier so than if he trod
His own beloved but blighted sod
Beneath a despot stranger's nod!--
Oh, he would rather houseless roam
  Where Freedom and his God may lead,
Than be the sleekest slave at home
  That crouches to the conqueror's creed!

Is IRAN'S pride then gone for ever,
  Quenched with the flame in MITHRA'S caves?
No--she has sons that never--never--
  Will stoop to be the Moslem's slaves
  While heaven has light or earth has graves;--
Spirits of fire that brood not long
But flash resentment back for wrong;
And hearts where, slow but deep, the seeds
Of vengeance ripen into deeds,
Till in some treacherous hour of calm
They burst like ZEILAN'S giant palm[220]
Whose buds fly open with a sound
That shakes the pigmy forests round!
Yes, EMIR! he, who scaled that tower,
  And had he reached thy slumbering breast
Had taught thee in a Gheber's power
  How safe even tyrant heads may rest--
Is one of many, brave as he,
Who loathe thy haughty race and thee;
Who tho' they knew the strife is vain,
Who tho' they know the riven chain
Snaps but to enter in the heart
Of him who rends its links apart,
Yet dare the issue,--blest to be
Even for one bleeding moment free
And die in pangs of liberty!
Thou knowest them well--'tis some moons since
  Thy turbaned troops and blood-red flags,
Thou satrap of a bigot Prince,
  Have swarmed among these Green Sea crags;
Yet here, even here, a sacred band
Ay, in the portal of that land
Thou, Arab, darest to call thy own,
Their spears across thy path have thrown;
Here--ere the winds half winged thee o'er--
Rebellion braved thee from the shore.

Rebellion! foul, dishonoring word,
  Whose wrongful blight so oft has stained
The holiest cause that tongue or sword
  Of mortal ever lost or gained.
How many a spirit born to bless
  Hath sunk beneath that withering name,
Whom but a day's, an hour's success
  Had wafted to eternal fame!
As exhalations when they burst
From the warm earth if chilled at first,
If checkt in soaring from the plain
Darken to fogs and sink again;--
But if they once triumphant spread
Their wings above the mountain-head,
Become enthroned in upper air,
And turn to sun-bright glories there!

And who is he that wields the might
  Of Freedom on the Green Sea brink,
Before whose sabre's dazzling light[221]
  The eyes of YEMEN'S warriors wink?
Who comes embowered in the spears
Of KERMAN'S hardy mountaineers?
Those mountaineers that truest, last,
  Cling to their country's ancient rites,
As if that God whose eyelids cast
  Their closing gleam on IRAN'S heights,
Among her snowy mountains threw
The last light of his worship too!
'Tis HAFED--name of fear, whose sound
  Chills like the muttering of a charm!--
Shout but that awful name around,
  And palsy shakes the manliest arm.

'Tis HAFED, most accurst and dire
(So rankt by Moslem hate and ire)
Of all the rebel Sons of Fire;
Of whose malign, tremendous power
The Arabs at their mid-watch hour
Such tales of fearful wonder tell
That each affrighted sentinel
Pulls down his cowl upon his eyes,
Lest HAFED in the midst should rise!
A man, they say, of monstrous birth,
A mingled race of flame and earth,
Sprung from those old, enchanted kings[222]
  Who in their fairy helms of yore
A feather from the mystic wings
  Of the Simoorgh resistless wore;
And gifted by the Fiends of Fire,
Who groaned to see their shrines expire
With charms that all in vain withstood
Would drown the Koran's light in blood!

Such were the tales that won belief,
  And such the coloring Fancy gave
To a young, warm, and dauntless Chief,--
  One who, no more than mortal brave,
Fought for the land his soul adored,
  For happy homes and altars free,--
His only talisman, the sword,
  His only spell-word, Liberty!
One of that ancient hero line,
Along whose glorious current shine
Names that have sanctified their blood:
As LEBANON'S small mountain-flood
Is rendered holy by the ranks
Of sainted cedars on its banks.[223]
'Twas not for him to crouch the knee
Tamely to Moslem tyranny;
'Twas not for him whose soul was cast
In the bright mould of ages past,
Whose melancholy spirit fed
With all the glories of the dead
Tho' framed for IRAN'S happiest years.
Was born among her chains and tears!--
'Twas not for him to swell the crowd
Of slavish heads, that shrinking bowed
Before the Moslem as he past
Like shrubs beneath the poison-blast--
No--far he fled--indignant fled
  The pageant of his country's shame;
While every tear her children shed
  Fell on his soul like drops of flame;
And as a lover hails the dawn
  Of a first smile, so welcomed he
The sparkle of the first sword drawn
  For vengeance and for liberty!
But vain was valor--vain the flower
Of KERMAN, in that deathful hour,
Against AL HASSAN'S whelming power.--
In vain they met him helm to helm
Upon the threshold of that realm
He came in bigot pomp to sway,
And with their corpses blockt his way--
In vain--for every lance they raised
Thousands around the conqueror blazed;
For every arm that lined their shore
Myriads of slaves were wafted o'er,--
A bloody, bold, and countless crowd,
Before whose swarm as fast they bowed
As dates beneath the locust cloud.

There stood--but one short league away
From old HARMOZIA'S sultry bay--
A rocky mountain o'er the Sea--
Of OMAN beetling awfully;[224]
A last and solitary link
  Of those stupendous chains that reach
From the broad Caspian's reedy brink
  Down winding to the Green Sea beach.
Around its base the bare rocks stood
Like naked giants, in the flood
  As if to guard the Gulf across;
While on its peak that braved the sky
A ruined Temple towered so high
  That oft the sleeping albatross[225]
Struck the wild ruins with her wing,
And from her cloud-rockt slumbering
Started--to find man's dwelling there
In her own silent fields of air!
Beneath, terrific caverns gave
Dark welcome to each stormy wave
That dasht like midnight revellers in;--
And such the strange, mysterious din
At times throughout those caverns rolled,--
And such the fearful wonders told
Of restless sprites imprisoned there,
That bold were Moslem who would dare
At twilight hour to steer his skiff
Beneath the Gheber's lonely cliff.[226]
On the land side those towers sublime,
That seemed above the grasp of Time,
Were severed from the haunts of men
By a wide, deep, and wizard glen,
So fathomless, so full of gloom,
  No eye could pierce the void between:
It seemed a place where Ghouls might come
With their foul banquets from the tomb
  And in its caverns feed unseen.
Like distant thunder, from below
  The sound of many torrents came,
Too deep for eye or ear to know
If 'twere the sea's imprisoned flow,
  Or floods of ever-restless flame.
For each ravine, each rocky spire
Of that vast mountain stood on fire;[227]
And tho' for ever past the days
When God was worshipt in the blaze--
That from its lofty altar shone,--
Tho' fled the priests, the votaries gone,
Still did the mighty flame burn on,[228]
Thro' chance and change, thro' good and ill,
Like its own God's eternal will,
Deep, constant, bright, unquenchable!

Thither the vanquisht HAFED led
  His little army's last remains;--
"Welcome, terrific glen!" he said,
"Thy gloom, that Eblis' self might dread,
  "Is Heaven to him who flies from chains!"
O'er a dark, narrow bridge-way known
To him and to his Chiefs alone
They crost the chasm and gained the towers;--
"This home," he cried, "at least is ours;
"Here we may bleed, unmockt by hymns
  "Of Moslem triumph o'er our head;
"Here we may fall nor leave our limbs
  "To quiver to the Moslem's tread.
"Stretched on this rock while vultures' beaks
"Are whetted on our yet warm cheeks,
"Here--happy that no tyrant's eye
"Gloats on our torments--we may die!"--

'Twas night when to those towers they came,
And gloomily the fitful flame
That from the ruined altar broke
Glared on his features as he spoke:--
"'Tis o'er--what men could do, we've done--
"If IRAN _will_ look tamely on
"And see her priests, her warriors driven
  "Before a sensual bigot's nod,
"A wretch who shrines his lusts in heaven
  "And makes a pander of his God;
"If her proud sons, her high-born souls,
  "Men in whose veins--oh last disgrace!
"The blood of ZAL and RUSTAM[229] rolls.--
  "If they _will_ court this upstart race
"And turn from MITHRA'S ancient ray
"To kneel at shrines of yesterday;
"If they _will_ crouch to IRAN'S foes,
  "Why, let them--till the land's despair
"Cries out to Heaven, and bondage grows
  "Too vile for even the vile to bear!
"Till shame at last, long hidden, burns
"Their inmost core, and conscience turns
"Each coward tear the slave lets fall
"Back on his heart in drops of gall.
"But here at least are arms unchained
"And souls that thraldom never stained;--
  "This spot at least no foot of slave
"Or satrap ever yet profaned,
  "And tho' but few--tho' fast the wave
"Of life is ebbing from our veins,
"Enough for vengeance still remains.
"As panthers after set of sun
"Rush from the roots of LEBANON
"Across the dark sea-robber's way,[230]
"We'll bound upon our startled prey.
"And when some hearts that proudest swell
"Have felt our falchion's last farewell,
"When Hope's expiring throb is o'er
"And even Despair can prompt no more,
"This spot shall be the sacred grave
"Of the last few who vainly brave
"Die for the land they cannot save!"

His Chiefs stood round--each shining blade
Upon the broken altar laid--
And tho' so wild and desolate
Those courts where once the Mighty sate:
Nor longer on those mouldering towers
Was seen the feast of fruits and flowers
With which of old the Magi fed
The wandering Spirits of their Dead;[231]
Tho' neither priest nor rites were there,
  Nor charmed leaf of pure pomegranate,[232]
Nor hymn, nor censer's fragrant air,
  Nor symbol of their worshipt planet;[233]
Yet the same God that heard their sires
Heard _them_ while on that altar's fires
They swore the latest, holiest deed
Of the few hearts, still left to bleed,
Should be in IRAN'S injured name
To die upon that Mount of Flame--
The last of all her patriot line,
Before her last untrampled Shrine!

Brave, suffering souls! they little knew
How many a tear their injuries drew
From one meek maid, one gentle foe,
Whom love first touched with others' woe--
Whose life, as free from thought as sin,
Slept like a lake till Love threw in
His talisman and woke the tide
And spread its trembling circles wide.
Once, EMIR! thy unheeding child
Mid all this havoc bloomed and smiled,--
Tranquil as on some battle plain
  The Persian lily shines and towers[234]
Before the combat's reddening stain
  Hath fallen upon her golden flowers.
Light-hearted maid, unawed, unmoved,
While Heaven but spared the sire she loved,
Once at thy evening tales of blood
Unlistening and aloof she stood--
And oft when thou hast paced along
  Thy Haram halls with furious heat,
Hast thou not curst her cheerful song,
  That came across thee, calm and sweet,
Like lutes of angels touched so near
Hell's confines that the damned can hear!

Far other feelings Love hath brought--
  Her soul all flame, her brow all sadness,
She now has but the one dear thought,
  And thinks that o'er, almost to madness!
Oft doth her sinking heart recall
His words--"for _my_ sake weep for all;"
And bitterly as day on day
  Of rebel carnage fast succeeds,
She weeps a lover snatched away
  In every Gheber wretch that bleeds.
There's not a sabre meets her eye
  But with his life-blood seems to swim;
There's not an arrow wings the sky
  But fancy turns its point to him.
No more she brings with footsteps light
AL HASSAN's falchion for the fight;
And--had he lookt with clearer sight,
Had not the mists that ever rise
From a foul spirit dimmed his eyes--
He would have markt her shuddering frame,
When from the field of blood he came,
The faltering speech--the look estranged--
Voice, step and life and beauty changed--
He would have markt all this, and known
Such change is wrought by Love alone!
Ah! not the Love that should have blest
So young, so innocent a breast;
Not the pure, open, prosperous Love,
That, pledged on earth and sealed above,
Grows in the world's approving eyes,
  In friendship's smile and home's caress,
Collecting all the heart's sweet ties
  Into one knot of happiness!
No, HINDA, no,--thy fatal flame
Is nurst in silence, sorrow, shame;--
  A passion without hope or pleasure,
In thy soul's darkness buried deep,
  It lies like some ill-gotten treasure,--
Some idol without shrine or name,
O'er which its pale-eyed votaries keep
Unholy watch while others sleep.

Seven nights have darkened OMAN'S sea,
  Since last beneath the moonlight ray
She saw his light oar rapidly
  Hurry her Gheber's bark away,--
And still she goes at midnight hour
To weep alone in that high bower
And watch and look along the deep
For him whose smiles first made her weep;--
But watching, weeping, all was vain,
She never saw his bark again.
The owlet's solitary cry,
The night-hawk flitting darkly by,
  And oft the hateful carrion bird,
Heavily flapping his clogged wing,
Which reeked with that day's banqueting--
  Was all she saw, was all she heard.

'Tis the eighth morn--AL HASSAN'S brow
  Is brightened with unusual joy--
What mighty mischief glads him now,
  Who never smiles but to destroy?
The sparkle upon HERKEND'S Sea,
When tost at midnight furiously,[235]
Tells not of wreck and ruin nigh,
More surely than that smiling eye!
"Up, daughter, up--the KERNA'S[236] breath
"Has blown a blast would waken death,
"And yet thou sleepest--up, child, and see
"This blessed day for heaven and me,
"A day more rich in Pagan blood
"Than ever flasht o'er OMAN'S flood.
"Before another dawn shall shine,
"His head--heart--limbs--will all be mine;
"This very night his blood shall steep
"These hands all over ere I sleep!"--

"_His_ blood!" she faintly screamed--her mind
Still singling _one_ from all mankind--
"Yes--spite of his ravines and towers,
"HAFED, my child, this night is ours.
"Thanks to all-conquering treachery,
  "Without whose aid the links accurst,
"That bind these impious slaves, would be
  "Too strong for ALLA'S self to burst!
"That rebel fiend whose blade has spread
"My path with piles of Moslem dead,
"Whose baffling spells had almost driven
"Back from their course the Swords of Heaven,
"This night with all his band shall know
"How deep an Arab's steel can go,
"When God and Vengeance speed the blow.
"And--Prophet! by that holy wreath
"Thou worest on OHOD'S field of death,[237]
"I swear, for every sob that parts
"In anguish from these heathen hearts,
"A gem from PERSIA'S plundered mines
"Shall glitter on thy shrine of Shrines.
"But, ha!--she sinks--that look so wild--
"Those livid lips--my child, my child,
"This life of blood befits not thee,
"And thou must back to ARABY.
  "Ne'er had I riskt thy timid sex
"In scenes that man himself might dread,
"Had I not hoped our every tread
  "Would be on prostrate Persian necks--
"Curst race, they offer swords instead!
"But cheer thee, maid,--the wind that now
"Is blowing o'er thy feverish brow
"To-day shall waft thee from the shore;
"And ere a drop of this night's gore
"Have time to chill in yonder towers,
"Thou'lt see thy own sweet Arab bowers!"

His bloody boast was all too true;
There lurkt one wretch among the few
Whom HAFED'S eagle eye could count
Around him on that Fiery Mount,--
One miscreant who for gold betrayed
The pathway thro' the valley's shade
To those high towers where Freedom stood
In her last hold of flame and blood.
Left on the field last dreadful night,
When sallying from their sacred height
The Ghebers fought hope's farewell fight,
He lay--but died not with the brave;
That sun which should have gilt his grave
Saw him a traitor and a slave;--
And while the few who thence returned
To their high rocky fortress mourned
For him among the matchless dead
They left behind on glory's bed,
He lived, and in the face of morn
Laught them and Faith and
  Heaven to scorn.

Oh for a tongue to curse the slave
  Whose treason like a deadly blight
Comes o'er the councils of the brave
And blasts them in their hour of might!
May Life's unblessed cup for him
Be drugged with treacheries to the brim.--
With hopes that but allure to fly,
  With joys that vanish while he sips,
Like Dead-Sea fruits that tempt the eye,
  But turn to ashes on the lips![238]
His country's curse, his children's shame,
Outcast of virtue, peace and fame,
May he at last with lips of flame
On the parched desert thirsting die,--
While lakes that shone in mockery nigh,[239]
Are fading off, untouched, untasted,
Like the once glorious hopes he blasted!
And when from earth his spirit flies,
  Just Prophet, let the damned-one dwell
Full in the sight of Paradise
  Beholding heaven and feeling hell!


LALLA ROOKH had the night before been visited by a dream which in spite of
the impending fate of poor HAFED made her heart more than usually cheerful
during the morning and gave her cheeks all the freshened animation of a
flower that the Bidmusk had just passed over.[240] She fancied that she
was sailing on that Eastern Ocean where the sea-gypsies who live for ever
on the water[241] enjoy a perpetual summer in wandering from isle to isle
when she saw a small gilded bark approaching her. It was like one of those
boats which the Maldivian islanders send adrift, at the mercy of winds and
waves, loaded with perfumes, flowers, and odoriferous wood, as an offering
to the Spirit whom they call King of the Sea. At first, this little bark
appeared to be empty but on coming nearer--

She had proceeded thus far in relating the dream to her Ladies, when
FERAMORZ appeared at the door of the pavilion. In his presence of course
everything else was forgotten and the continuance of the story was
instantly requested by all. Fresh wood of aloes was set to burn in the
cassolets;--the violet sherbets[242] were hastily handed round, and after
a short prelude on his lute in the pathetic measure of Nava,[243] which is
always used to express the lamentations of absent lovers, the Poet thus
continued:--


The day is lowering--stilly black
Sleeps the grim wave, while heaven's rack,
Disperst and wild, 'twixt earth and sky
Hangs like a shattered canopy.
There's not a cloud in that blue plain
  But tells of storm to come or past;--
Here flying loosely as the mane
  Of a young war-horse in the blast;--
There rolled in masses dark and swelling,
As proud to be the thunder's dwelling!
While some already burst and riven
Seen melting down the verge of heaven;
As tho' the infant storm had rent
The mighty womb that gave him birth,
And having swept the firmament
  Was now in fierce career for earth.

On earth 'twas yet all calm around,
A pulseless silence, dread, profound,
More awful than the tempest's sound.
The diver steered for ORMUS' bowers,
And moored his skiff till calmer hours;
The sea-birds with portentous screech
Flew fast to land;--upon the beach
The pilot oft had paused, with glance
Turned upward to that wild expanse;--
And all was boding, drear and dark
As her own soul when HINDA'S bark
Went slowly from the Persian shore.--
No music timed her parting oar,[244]
Nor friends upon the lessening strand
Lingering to wave the unseen hand
Or speak the farewell, heard no more;--
But lone, unheeded, from the bay
The vessel takes its mournful way,
Like some ill-destined bark that steers
In silence thro' the Gate of Tears.[245]
And where was stern AL HASSAN then?
Could not that saintly scourge of men
From bloodshed and devotion spare
One minute for a farewell there?
No--close within in changeful fits
Of cursing and of prayer he sits
In savage loneliness to brood
Upon the coming night of blood,--
  With that keen, second-scent of death,
By which the vulture snuffs his food
  In the still warm and living breath![246]
While o'er the wave his weeping daughter
Is wafted from these scenes of slaughter,--
As a young bird of BABYLON,[247]
Let loose to tell of victory won,
Flies home, with wing, ah! not unstained
By the red hands that held her chained.

And does the long-left home she seeks
Light up no gladness on her cheeks?
The flowers she nurst--the well-known groves,
Where oft in dreams her spirit roves--
Once more to see her dear gazelles
Come bounding with their silver bells;
Her birds' new plumage to behold
  And the gay, gleaming fishes count,
She left all filleted with gold
  Shooting around their jasper fount;[248]
Her little garden mosque to see,
  And once again, at evening hour,
To tell her ruby rosary
  In her own sweet acacia bower.--
Can these delights that wait her now
Call up no sunshine on her brow?
No,--silent, from her train apart,--
As if even now she felt at heart
The chill of her approaching doom,--
She sits, all lovely in her gloom
As a pale Angel of the Grave;
And o'er the wide, tempestuous wave
Looks with a shudder to those towers
Where in a few short awful hours
Blood, blood, in streaming tides shall run,
Foul incense for to-morrow's sun!
"Where art thou, glorious stranger! thou,
"So loved, so lost, where art thou now?
"Foe--Gheber--infidel--whate'er
"The unhallowed name thou'rt doomed to bear,
"Still glorious--still to this fond heart
"Dear as its blood, whate'er thou art!
"Yes--ALLA, dreadful ALLA! yes--
"If there be wrong, be crime in this,
"Let the black waves that round us roll,
"Whelm me this instant ere my soul
"Forgetting faith--home--father--all
"Before its earthly idol fall,
"Nor worship even Thyself above him--
"For, oh, so wildly do I love him,
"Thy Paradise itself were dim
"And joyless, if not shared with him!"
Her hands were claspt--her eyes upturned,
  Dropping their tears like moonlight rain;
And, tho' her lip, fond raver! burned
  With words of passion, bold, profane.
Yet was there light around her brow,
  A holiness in those dark eyes,
Which showed,--tho' wandering earthward now,--
  Her spirit's home was in the skies.
Yes--for a spirit pure as hers
Is always pure, even while it errs;
As sunshine broken in the rill
Tho' turned astray is sunshine still!

So wholly had her mind forgot
All thoughts but one she heeded not
The rising storm--the wave that cast
A moment's midnight as it past--
Nor heard the frequent shout, the tread
Of gathering tumult o'er her head--
Clasht swords and tongues that seemed to vie
With the rude riot of the sky.--
But, hark!--that war-whoop on the deck--
  That crash as if each engine there,
Mast, sails and all, were gone to wreck,
  Mid yells and stampings of despair!
Merciful Heaven! what _can_ it be?
'Tis not the storm, tho' fearfully
The ship has shuddered as she rode
O'er mountain-waves--"Forgive me, God!
"Forgive me"--shrieked the maid and knelt,
Trembling all over--for she felt
As if her judgment hour was near;
While crouching round half dead with fear,
Her handmaids clung, nor breathed nor stirred--
When, hark!--a second crash--a third--
And now as if a bolt of thunder
Had riven the laboring planks asunder,
The deck falls in--what horrors then!
Blood, waves and tackle, swords and men
Come mixt together thro' the chasm,--
Some wretches in their dying spasm
Still fighting on--and some that call
"For GOD and IRAN!" as they fall!
Whose was the hand that turned away
The perils of the infuriate fray,
And snatcht her breathless from beneath
This wilderment of wreck and death?
She knew not--for a faintness came
Chill o'er her and her sinking frame
Amid the ruins of that hour
Lay like a pale and scorched flower
Beneath the red volcano's shower.
But, oh! the sights and sounds of dread
That shockt her ere her senses fled!
The yawning deck--the crowd that strove
Upon the tottering planks above--
The sail whose fragments, shivering o'er
The stragglers' heads all dasht with gore
Fluttered like bloody flags--the clash
Of sabres and the lightning's flash
Upon their blades, high tost about
Like meteor brands[249]--as if throughout
  The elements one fury ran,
One general rage that left a doubt
  Which was the fiercer, Heaven or Man!
Once too--but no--it could not be--
  'Twas fancy all--yet once she thought,
While yet her fading eyes could see
  High on the ruined deck she caught
A glimpse of that unearthly form,
  That glory of her soul,--even then,
Amid the whirl of wreck and storm,
  Shining above his fellow-men,
As on some black and troublous night
The Star of EGYPT,[250] whose proud light
Never hath beamed on those who rest
In the White Islands of the West,
Burns thro' the storm with looks of flame
That put Heaven's cloudier eyes to shame.
But no--'twas but the minute's dream--
A fantasy--and ere the scream
Had half-way past her pallid lips,
A death-like swoon, a chill eclipse
Of soul and sense its darkness spread
Around her and she sunk as dead.
How calm, how beautiful comes on
The stilly hour when storms are gone,
When warring winds have died away,
And clouds beneath the glancing ray
Melt off and leave the land and sea
Sleeping in bright tranquillity,--
Fresh as if Day again were born,
Again upon the lap of Morn!--
When the light blossoms rudely torn
And scattered at the whirlwind's will,
Hang floating in the pure air still,
Filling it all with precious balm,
In gratitude for this sweet calm;--
And every drop the thundershowers
Have left upon the grass and flowers
Sparkles, as 'twere that lightning-gem[251]
Whose liquid flame is born of them!
When, 'stead of one unchanging breeze,
  There blow a thousand gentle airs
  And each a different perfume bears,--
As if the loveliest plants and trees
Had vassal breezes of their own
To watch and wait on them alone,
And waft no other breath than theirs:
When the blue waters rise and fall,
In sleepy sunshine mantling all;
And even that swell the tempest leaves
Is like the full and silent heaves
Of lovers' hearts when newly blest,
Too newly to be quite at rest.

Such was the golden hour that broke
Upon the world when HINDA woke
From her long trance and heard around
No motion but the water's sound
Rippling against the vessel's side,
As slow it mounted o'er the tide.--
But where is she?--her eyes are dark,
Are wilder still--is this the bark,
The same, that from HARMOZIA'S bay
Bore her at morn--whose bloody way
The sea-dog trackt?--no--strange and new
Is all that meets her wondering view.
Upon a galliot's deck she lies,
  Beneath no rich pavilion's shade,--
No plumes to fan her sleeping eyes,
  Nor jasmine on her pillow laid.
But the rude litter roughly spread
With war-cloaks is her homely bed,
And shawl and sash on javelins hung
For awning o'er her head are flung.
Shuddering she lookt around--there lay
  A group of warriors in the sun,
Resting their limbs, as for that day
  Their ministry of death were done.
Some gazing on the drowsy sea
Lost in unconscious revery;
And some who seemed but ill to brook
That sluggish calm with many a look
To the slack sail impatient cast,
As loose it bagged around the mast.

Blest ALLA! who shall save her now?
  There's not in all that warrior band
One Arab sword, one turbaned brow
  From her own Faithful Moslem land.
Their garb--the leathern belt that wraps
  Each yellow vest[252]--that rebel hue--
The Tartar fleece upon their caps[253]--
  Yes--yes--her fears are all too true,
And Heaven hath in this dreadful hour
Abandoned her to HAFED'S power;--
HAFED, the Gheber!--at the thought
  Her very heart's blood chills within;
He whom her soul was hourly taught
  To loathe as some foul fiend of sin,
Some minister whom Hell had sent
To spread its blast where'er he went
And fling as o'er our earth he trod
His shadow betwixt man and God!
And she is now his captive,--thrown
In his fierce hands, alive, alone;
His the infuriate band she sees,
All infidels--all enemies!
What was the daring hope that then
Crost her like lightning, as again
With boldness that despair had lent
  She darted tho' that armed crowd
A look so searching, so intent,
  That even the sternest warrior bowed
Abasht, when he her glances caught,
As if he guessed whose form they sought.
But no--she sees him not--'tis gone,
The vision that before her shone
Thro' all the maze of blood and storm,
Is fled--'twas but a phantom form--
One of those passing, rainbow dreams,
Half light, half shade, which Fancy's beams
Paint on the fleeting mists that roll
In trance or slumber round the soul.

But now the bark with livelier bound
  Scales the blue wave--the crew's in motion.
The oars are out and with light sound
  Break the bright mirror of the ocean,
Scattering its brilliant fragments round.
And now she sees--with horror sees,
  Their course is toward that mountain-hold,--
Those towers that make her life-blood freeze,
Where MECCA'S godless enemies
  Lie like beleaguered scorpions rolled
  In their last deadly, venomous fold!
Amid the illumined land and flood
Sunless that mighty mountain stood;
Save where above its awful head,
There shone a flaming cloud, blood-red,
As 'twere the flag of destiny
Hung out to mark where death would be!

Had her bewildered mind the power
Of thought in this terrific hour,
She well might marvel where or how
Man's foot could scale that mountain's brow,
Since ne'er had Arab heard or known
Of path but thro' the glen alone.--
But every thought was lost in fear,
When, as their bounding bark drew near
The craggy base, she felt the waves
Hurry them toward those dismal caves
That from the Deep in windings pass
Beneath that Mount's volcanic mass;--
And loud a voice on deck commands
To lower the mast and light the brands!--
Instantly o'er the dashing tide
Within a cavern's mouth they glide,
Gloomy as that eternal Porch
  Thro' which departed spirits go:--
Not even the flare of brand and torch
  Its flickering light could further throw
  Than the thick flood that boiled below.
Silent they floated--as if each
Sat breathless, and too awed for speech
In that dark chasm where even sound
Seemed dark,--so sullenly around
The goblin echoes of the cave
Muttered it o'er the long black wave
As 'twere some secret of the grave!

But soft--they pause--the current turns
  Beneath them from its onward track;--
Some mighty, unseen barrier spurns
  The vexed tide all foaming back,
And scarce the oar's redoubled force
Can stem the eddy's whirling course;
When, hark!--some desperate foot has sprung
Among the rocks--the chain is flung--
The oars are up--the grapple clings,
And the tost bark in moorings swings.
Just then, a day-beam thro' the shade
Broke tremulous--but ere the maid
Can see from whence the brightness steals,
Upon her brow she shuddering feels
A viewless hand that promptly ties
A bandage round her burning eyes;
While the rude litter where she lies,
Uplifted by the warrior throng,
O'er the steep rocks is borne along.

Blest power of sunshine!--genial Day,
What balm, what life is in thy ray!
To feel thee is such real bliss,
That had the world no joy but this
To sit in sunshine calm and sweet.--
It were a world too exquisite
For man to leave it for the gloom,
The deep, cold shadow of the tomb.
Even HINDA, tho' she saw not where
  Or whither wound the perilous road,
Yet knew by that awakening air,
  Which suddenly around her glowed,
That they had risen from the darkness there,
And breathed the sunny world again!

But soon this balmy freshness fled--
For now the steepy labyrinth led
Thro' damp and gloom--mid crash of boughs,
And fall of loosened crags that rouse
The leopard from his hungry sleep,
  Who starting thinks each crag a prey,
And long is heard from steep to steep
  Chasing them down their thundering way!
The jackal's cry--the distant moan
Of the hyena, fierce and lone--
And that eternal saddening sound
  Of torrents in the glen beneath,
As 'twere the ever-dark Profound
  That rolls beneath the Bridge of Death!
All, all is fearful--even to see,
  To gaze on those terrific things
She now but blindly hears, would be
  Relief to her imaginings;
Since never yet was shape so dread,
  But Fancy thus in darkness thrown
And by such sounds of horror fed
  Could frame more dreadful of her own.

But does she dream? has Fear again
Perplext the workings of her brain,
Or did a voice, all music, then
Come from the gloom, low whispering near--
"Tremble not, love, thy Gheber's here?"
She _does_ not dream--all sense, all ear,
She drinks the words, "Thy Gheber's here."
'Twas his own voice--she could not err--
  Throughout the breathing world's extent
There was but _one_ such voice for her,
  So kind, so soft, so eloquent!
Oh, sooner shall the rose of May
  Mistake her own sweet nightingale,
And to some meaner minstrel's lay
  Open her bosom's glowing veil,[254]
Than Love shall ever doubt a tone,
A breath of the beloved one!

Though blest mid all her ills to think
  She has that one beloved near,
Whose smile tho' met on ruin's brink
  Hath power to make even ruin dear,--
Yet soon this gleam of rapture crost
By fears for him is chilled and lost.
How shall the ruthless HAFED brook
That one of Gheber blood should look,
With aught but curses in his eye,
On her--a maid of ARABY--
A Moslem maid--the child of him,
  Whose bloody banners' dire success
Hath left their altars cold and dim,
  And their fair land a wilderness!
And worse than all that night of blood
  Which comes so fast--Oh! who shall stay
The sword, that once hath tasted food
  Of Persian hearts or turn its way?
What arm shall then the victim cover,
Or from her father shield her lover?

"Save him, my God!" she inly cries--
"Save him this night--and if thine eyes
  "Have ever welcomed with delight
"The sinner's tears, the sacrifice
  "Of sinners' hearts--guard him this night,
"And here before thy throne I swear
"From my heart's inmost core to tear
  "Love, hope, remembrance, tho' they be
"Linkt with each quivering life-string there,
  "And give it bleeding all to Thee!
"Let him but live,--the burning tear,
"The sighs, so sinful, yet so dear,
"Which have been all too much his own,
"Shall from this hour be Heaven's alone.
"Youth past in penitence and age
"In long and painful pilgrimage
"Shall leave no traces of the flame
"That wastes me now--nor shall his name
"E'er bless my lips but when I pray
"For his dear spirit, that away
"Casting from its angelic ray
"The eclipse of earth, he too may shine
"Redeemed, all glorious and all Thine!
"Think--think what victory to win
"One radiant soul like his from sin,
"One wandering star of virtue back
"To its own native, heavenward track!
"Let him but live, and both are Thine,
  "Together Thine--for blest or crost,
"Living or dead, his doom is mine,
  "And if _he_ perish, both are lost!"


The next evening LALLA ROOKH was entreated by her Ladies to continue the
relation of her wonderful dream; but the fearful interest that hung round
the fate of HINDA and her lover had completely removed every trace of it
from her mind;--much to the disappointment of a fair seer or two in her
train, who prided themselves on their skill in interpreting visions, and
who had already remarked, as an unlucky omen, that the Princess, on the
very morning after the dream, had worn a silk dyed with the blossoms of
the sorrowful tree, Nilica.[255]

FADLADEEN, whose indignation had more than once broken out during the
recital of some parts of this heterodox poem, seemed at length to have
made up his mind to the infliction; and took his seat this evening with
all the patience of a martyr while the Poet resumed his profane and
seditious story as follows:--


To tearless eyes and hearts at ease
The leafy shores and sun-bright seas
That lay beneath that mountain's height
Had been a fair enchanting sight.
'Twas one of those ambrosial eyes
A day of storm so often leaves
At its calm setting--when the West
Opens her golden bowers of rest,
And a moist radiance from the skies
Shoots trembling down, as from the eyes
Of some meek penitent whose last
Bright hours atone for dark ones past,
And whose sweet tears o'er wrong forgiven
Shine as they fall with light from heaven!

'Twas stillness all--the winds that late
Had rushed through KERMAN'S almond groves,
And shaken from her bowers of date
That cooling feast the traveller loves.[256]
Now lulled to languor scarcely curl
  The Green Sea wave whose waters gleam
Limpid as if her mines of pearl
  Were melted all to form the stream:
And her fair islets small and bright
  With their green shores reflected there
Look like those PERI isles of light
  That hang by spell-work in the air

But vainly did those glories burst
On HINDA'S dazzled eyes, when first
The bandage from her brow was taken,
And, pale and awed as those who waken
In their dark tombs--when, scowling near,
The Searchers of the Grave[257] appear.--
She shuddering turned to read her fate
  In the fierce eyes that flasht around;
And saw those towers all desolate,
  That o'er her head terrific frowned,
As if defying even the smile
Of that soft heaven to gild their pile.
In vain with mingled hope and fear,
She looks for him whose voice so dear
Had come, like music, to her ear,--
Strange, mocking dream! again 'tis fled.
And oh, the shoots, the pangs of dread
That thro' her inmost bosom run,
  When voices from without proclaim
"HAFED, the Chief"--and, one by one,
  The warriors shout that fearful name!
He comes--the rock resounds his tread--
How shall she dare to lift her head
Or meet those eyes whose scorching glare
Not YEMEN'S boldest sons can bear?
In whose red beam, the Moslem tells,
Such rank and deadly lustre dwells
As in those hellish fires that light
The mandrake's charnel leaves at night.[258]
How shall she bear that voice's tone,
At whose loud battle-cry alone
Whole squadrons oft in panic ran,
Scattered like some vast caravan,
When stretched at evening round the well
They hear the thirsting tiger's yell.

Breathless she stands with eyes cast down
Shrinking beneath the fiery frown
Which, fancy tells her, from that brow
Is flashing o'er her fiercely now:
And shuddering as she hears the tread
  Of his retiring warrior band.--
Never was pause full of dread;
  Till HAFED with a trembling hand
Took hers and leaning o'er her said,
"HINDA;"--that word was all he spoke.
And 'twas enough--the shriek that broke
  From her full bosom told the rest.--
Panting with terror, joy, surprise,
The maid but lifts her wandering eyes,
  To hide them on her Gheber's breast!
'Tis he, 'tis he--the man of blood,
The fellest of the Fire-fiend's brood,
HAFED, the demon of the fight,
Whose voice unnerves, whose glances blight,--
Is her own loved Gheber, mild
And glorious as when first he smiled
In her lone tower and left such beams
Of his pure eye to light her dreams,
That she believed her bower had given
Rest to some wanderer from heaven!

Moments there are, and this was one,
Snatched like a minute's gleam of sun
Amid the black Simoom's eclipse--
  Or like those verdant spots that bloom
Around the crater's burning lips.
  Sweetening the very edge of doom!
The past, the future--all that Fate
  Can bring of dark or desperate
Around such hours but makes them cast
Intenser radiance while they last!
Even he, this youth--tho' dimmed and gone
Each Star of Hope that cheered him on--
His glories lost--his cause betrayed--
IRAN, his dear-loved country, made
A land of carcasses and slaves,
One dreary waste of chains and graves!
Himself but lingering, dead at heart,
  To see the last, long struggling breath
Of Liberty's great soul depart,
  Then lay him down and share her death--
Even he so sunk in wretchedness
  With doom still darker gathering o'er him,
Yet, in this moment's pure caress,
  In the mild eyes that shone before him,
Beaming that blest assurance worth
All other transports known on earth.
That he was loved-well, warmly loved--
Oh! in this precious hour he proved
How deep, how thorough-felt the glow
Of rapture kindling out of woe;--
How exquisite one single drop
Of bliss thus sparkling to the top
Of misery's cup--how keenly quaft,
Tho' death must follow on the draught!

She too while gazing on those eyes
  That sink into her soul so deep,
Forgets all fears, all miseries,
  Or feels them like the wretch in sleep,
Whom fancy cheats into a smile.
  Who dreams of joy and sobs the while!
The mighty Ruins where they stood
  Upon the mount's high, rocky verge
Lay open towards the ocean flood,
  Where lightly o'er the illumined surge
Many a fair bark that, all the day,
Had lurkt in sheltering creek or bay
Now bounded on and gave their sails,
Yet dripping to the evening gales;
Like eagles when the storm is done,
Spreading their wet wings in the sun.
The beauteous clouds, tho' daylight's Star
Had sunk behind the hills of LAR,
Were still with lingering glories bright.--
As if to grace the gorgeous West
  The Spirit of departing Light
That eve had left his sunny vest
  Behind him ere he winged his flight.
Never was scene so formed for love!
Beneath them waves of crystal move
In silent swell--Heaven glows above
And their pure hearts, to transport given,
Swell like the wave and glow like heaven.

But ah! too soon that dream is past--
  Again, again her fear returns;--
Night, dreadful night, is gathering fast,
  More faintly the horizon burns,
And every rosy tint that lay
On the smooth sea hath died away
Hastily to the darkening skies
A glance she casts--then wildly cries
"_At night_, he said--and look, 'tis near--
  "Fly, fly--if yet thou lovest me, fly--
"Soon will his murderous band be here.
  "And I shall see thee bleed and die.--
"Hush! heardest thou not the tramp of men
"Sounding from yonder fearful glen?--
"Perhaps, even now they climb the wood--
  "Fly, fly--tho' still the West is bright,
"He'll come--oh! yes--he wants thy blood--
  "I know him--he'll not wait for night!"

In terrors even to agony
  She clings around the wondering Chief;--
  "Alas, poor wildered maid! to me
  "Thou owest this raving trance of grief.
"Lost as I am, naught ever grew
"Beneath my shade but perisht too--
"My doom is like the Dead Sea air,
"And nothing lives that enters there!
"Why were our barks together driven
"Beneath this morning's furious heaven?
"Why when I saw the prize that chance
  "Had thrown into my desperate arms,--
"When casting but a single glance
"Upon thy pale and prostrate charms,
"I vowed (tho' watching viewless o'er
  "Thy safety thro' that hour's alarms)
"To meet the unmanning sight no more--
"Why have I broke that heart-wrung vow?
"Why weakly, madly met thee now?
"Start not--that noise is but the shock
  "Of torrents thro' yon valley hurled--
"Dread nothing here--upon this rock
  "We stand above the jarring world,
"Alike beyond its hope--its dread--
"In gloomy safety like the Dead!
"Or could even earth and hell unite
"In league to storm this Sacred Height,
"Fear nothing thou--myself, tonight,
"And each o'erlooking star that dwells
"Near God will be thy sentinels;--
"And ere to-morrow's dawn shall glow,
"Back to thy sire"--
    "To-morrow!--no"--
The maiden screamed--"Thou'lt never see
"To-morrow's sun--death, death will be
"The night-cry thro' each reeking tower,
"Unless we fly, ay, fly this hour!
"Thou art betrayed--some wretch who knew
"That dreadful glen's mysterious clew-
"Nay, doubt not--by yon stars, 'tis true--
"Hath sold thee to my vengeful sire;
"This morning, with that smile so dire
"He wears in joy he told me all
"And stampt in triumph thro' our hall,
"As tho' thy heart already beat
"Its last life-throb beneath his feet!
"Good Heaven, how little dreamed I then
  "His victim was my own loved youth!--
"Fly--send--let some one watch the glen--
  "By all my hopes of heaven 'tis truth!"

Oh! colder than the wind that freezes
  Founts that but now in sunshine played,
Is that congealing pang which seizes
  The trusting bosom, when betrayed.
He felt it--deeply felt--and stood,
As if the tale had frozen his blood,
  So mazed and motionless was he;--
Like one whom sudden spells enchant,
Or some mute, marble habitant
  Of the still Halls of ISHMONIE![259]
But soon the painful chill was o'er,
And his great soul herself once more
Lookt from his brow in all the rays
Of her best, happiest, grandest days.
Never in moment most elate
  Did that high spirit loftier rise:--
While bright, serene, determinate,
  His looks are lifted to the skies,
As if the signal lights of Fate
  Were shining in those awful eyes!
'Tis come--his hour of martyrdom
In IRAN'S sacred cause is come;
And tho' his life hath past away
Like lightning on a stormy day,
Yet shall his death-hour leave a track
  Of glory permanent and bright
To which the brave of after-times,
The suffering brave, shall long look back
  With proud regret,--and by its light
  Watch thro' the hours of slavery's night
For vengeance on the oppressor's crimes.
This rock, his monument aloft,
  Shall speak the tale to many an age;
And hither bards and heroes oft
  Shall come in secret pilgrimage,
And bring their warrior sons and tell
The wondering boys where HAFED fell;
And swear them on those lone remains
Of their lost country's ancient fanes,
Never--while breath of life shall live
Within them--never to forgive
The accursed race whose ruthless chain
Hath left on IRAN'S neck a stain
Blood, blood alone can cleanse again!

Such are the swelling thoughts that now
Enthrone themselves on HAFED'S brow;
And ne'er did Saint of ISSA [260] gaze
  On the red wreath for martyrs twined.
More proudly than the youth surveys
  That pile which thro' the gloom behind,
Half lighted by the altar's fire,
Glimmers--his destined funeral pyre!
Heaped by his own, his comrades hands,
  Of every wood of odorous breath.
There, by the Fire-God's shrine it stands,
  Ready to fold in radiant death
The few still left of those who swore
To perish there when hope was o'er--
The few to whom that couch of flame,
Which rescues them from bonds and shame,
Is sweet and welcome as the bed
For their own infant Prophet spread,
When pitying Heaven to roses turned
The death-flames that beneath him burned![261]

  With watchfulness the maid attends
His rapid glance where'er it bends--
Why shoot his eyes such awful beams?
What plans he now? what thinks or dreams?
Alas! why stands he musing here,
When every moment teems with fear?
"HAFED, my own beloved Lord,"
She kneeling cries--"first, last adored!
"If in that soul thou'st ever felt
  "Half what thy lips impassioned swore,
"Here on my knees that never knelt
  "To any but their God before,
"I pray thee, as thou lovest me, fly--
"Now, now--ere yet their blades are nigh.
"Oh haste--the bark that bore me hither
  "Can waft us o'er yon darkening sea
"East--west--alas, I care not whither,
  "So thou art safe, and I with thee!
"Go where we will, this hand in thine,
  "Those eyes before me smiling thus,
"Thro' good and ill, thro' storm and shine,
  "The world's a world of love for us!
"On some calm, blessed shore we'll dwell,
"Where 'tis no crime to love too well;
"Where thus to worship tenderly
"An erring child of light like thee
"Will not be sin--or if it be
"Where we may weep our faults away,
"Together kneeling, night and day,
"Thou, for _my_ sake, at ALLA'S shrine,
"And I--at _any_ God's, for thine!"

Wildly these passionate words she spoke--
  Then hung her head and wept for shame;
Sobbing as if a heart-string broke
  With every deep-heaved sob that came,
While he, young, warm--oh! wonder not
  If, for a moment, pride and fame;
  His oath--his cause--that shrine of flame,
And IRAN'S self are all forgot
For her, whom at his feet he sees
Kneeling in speechless agonies.
No, blame him not if Hope awhile
Dawned in his soul and threw her smile
O'er hours to come--o'er days and nights,
Winged with those precious, pure delights
Which she who bends all beauteous there
Was born to kindle and to share.
A tear or two which as he bowed
  To raise the suppliant, trembling stole,
First warned him of this dangerous cloud
  Of softness passing o'er his soul.
Starting he brusht the drops away
Unworthy o'er that cheek to stray;--
Like one who on the morn of fight
Shakes from his sword the dews of night,
That had but dimmed not stained its light.

Yet tho' subdued the unnerving thrill,
Its warmth, its weakness lingered still
  So touching in each look and tone,
That the fond, fearing, hoping maid
Half counted on the flight she prayed,
  Half thought the hero's soul was grown
  As soft, as yielding as her own,
And smiled and blest him while he said,--
"Yes--if there be some happier sphere
"Where fadeless truth like ours is dear.--
"If there be any land of rest
  "For those who love and ne'er forget,
"Oh! comfort thee--for safe and blest
  "We'll meet in that calm region yet!"

  Scarce had she time to ask her heart
If good or ill these words impart,
When the roused youth impatient flew
To the tower-wall, where high in view
A ponderous sea-horn[262] hung, and blew
A signal deep and dread as those
The storm-fiend at his rising blows.--
Full well his Chieftains, sworn and true
Thro' life and death, that signal knew;
For 'twas the appointed warning-blast,
The alarm to tell when hope was past
And the tremendous death-die cast!
And there upon the mouldering tower
Hath hung this sea-horn many an hour,
Ready to sound o'er land and sea
That dirge-note of the brave and free.

They came--his Chieftains at the call
Came slowly round and with them all--
Alas, how few!--the worn remains
Of those who late o'er KERMAN'S plains
When gayly prancing to the clash
  Of Moorish zel and tymbalon
Catching new hope from every flash
  Of their long lances in the sun,
And as their coursers charged the wind
And the white ox-tails streamed behind,[263]
Looking as if the steeds they rode
Were winged and every Chief a God!
How fallen, how altered now! how wan
Each scarred and faded visage shone,
As round the burning shrine they came;--
  How deadly was the glare it cast,
As mute they paused before the flame
  To light their torches as they past!
'Twas silence all--the youth hath planned
The duties of his soldier-band;
And each determined brow declares
His faithful Chieftains well know theirs.
But minutes speed--night gems the skies--
And oh, how soon, ye blessed eyes
That look from heaven ye may behold
Sights that will turn your star-fires cold!
Breathless with awe, impatience, hope,
The maiden sees the veteran group
Her litter silently prepare,
  And lay it at her trembling feet;--
And now the youth with gentle care,
  Hath placed her in the sheltered seat
And prest her hand--that lingering press
  Of hands that for the last time sever;
Of hearts whose pulse of happiness
  When that hold breaks is dead for ever.
And yet to _her_ this sad caress
  Gives hope--so fondly hope can err!
'Twas joy, she thought, joy's mute excess--
  Their happy flight's dear harbinger;
'Twas warmth--assurance--tenderness--
  'Twas any thing but leaving her.

"Haste, haste!" she cried, "the clouds grow dark,
"But still, ere night, we'll reach the bark;
"And by to-morrow's dawn--oh bliss!
  "With thee upon the sun-bright deep,
"Far off, I'll but remember this,
  "As some dark vanisht dream of sleep;
"And thou"--but ah!--he answers not--
  Good Heaven!--and does she go alone?
She now has reached that dismal spot,
  Where some hours since his voice's tone
Had come to soothe her fears and ills,
Sweet as the angel ISRAFIL'S,[264]
When every leaf on Eden's tree
Is trembling to his minstrelsy--
Yet now--oh, now, he is not nigh.--
  "HAFED! my HAFED!--if it be
"Thy will, thy doom this night to die
  "Let me but stay to die with thee
"And I will bless thy loved name,
"Till the last life-breath leave this frame.
"Oh! let our lips, our cheeks be laid
"But near each other while they fade;
"Let us but mix our parting breaths,
"And I can die ten thousand deaths!
"You too, who hurry me away
"So cruelly, one moment stay--
  "Oh! stay--one moment is not much--
"He yet may come--for _him_ I pray--
"HAFED! dear HAFED!"--all the way
  In wild lamentings that would touch
A heart of stone she shrieked his name
To the dark woods--no HAFED came:--
No--hapless pair--you've lookt your last:--
  Your hearts should both have broken then:--
The dream is o'er--your doom is cast--
  You'll never meet on earth again!

Alas for him who hears her cries!
  Still half-way down the steep he stands,
Watching with fixt and feverish eyes
  The glimmer of those burning brands
That down the rocks with mournful ray,
Light all he loves on earth away!
Hopeless as they who far at sea
  By the cold moon have just consigned
The corse of one loved tenderly
  To the bleak flood they leave behind,
And on the deck still lingering stay,
And long look back with sad delay
To watch the moonlight on the wave
That ripples o'er that cheerless grave.

  But see--he starts--what heard he then?
That dreadful shout!--across the glen
From the land-side it comes and loud
Rings thro' the chasm, as if the crowd
Of fearful things that haunt that dell
Its Ghouls and Divs and shapes of hell,
And all in one dread howl broke out,
So loud, so terrible that shout!
"They come--the Moslems come!"--he cries,
His proud soul mounting to his eyes,--
"Now, Spirits of the Brave, who roam
"Enfranchised thro' yon starry dome,
"Rejoice--for souls of kindred fire
"Are on the wing to join your choir!"
He said--and, light as bridegrooms bound
  To their young loves, reclined the steep
And gained the Shrine--his Chiefs stood round--
  Their swords, as with instinctive leap,
Together at that cry accurst
Had from their sheaths like sunbeams burst.
And hark!--again--again it rings;
Near and more near its echoings
Peal thro' the chasm--oh! who that then
Had seen those listening warrior-men,
With their swords graspt, their eyes of flame
Turned on their Chief--could doubt the shame,
The indignant shame with which they thrill
To hear those shouts and yet stand still?

He read their thoughts--they were his own--
  "What! while our arms can wield these blades,
"Shall we die tamely? die alone?
  "Without one victim to our shades,
"One Moslem heart, where buried deep
  "The sabre from its toil may sleep?
"No--God of IRAN'S burning skies!
"Thou scornest the inglorious sacrifice.
"No--tho' of all earth's hope bereft,
"Life, swords, and vengeance still are left.
"We'll make yon valley's reeking caves
  "Live in the awe-struck minds of men
"Till tyrants shudder, when their slaves
  "Tell of the Gheber's bloody glen,
"Follow, brave hearts!--this pile remains
"Our refuge still from life and chains;
"But his the best, the holiest bed,
"Who sinks entombed in Moslem dead!"

  Down the precipitous rocks they sprung,
While vigor more than human strung
Each arm and heart.--The exulting foe
Still thro' the dark defiles below,
Trackt by his torches' lurid fire,
  Wound slow, as thro' GOLCONDA'S vale
The mighty serpent in his ire
  Glides on with glittering, deadly trail.
No torch the Ghebers need--so well
They know each mystery of the dell,
So oft have in their wanderings
Crost the wild race that round them dwell,
  The very tigers from their delves
Look out and let them pass as things
  Untamed and fearless like themselves!

  There was a deep ravine that lay
Yet darkling in the Moslem's way;
Fit spot to make invaders rue
The many fallen before the few.
The torrents from that morning's sky
Had filled the narrow chasm breast-high,
And on each side aloft and wild
Huge cliffs and toppling crags were piled,--
The guards with which young Freedom lines
The pathways to her mountain-shrines,
Here at this pass the scanty band;
Of IRAN'S last avengers stand;
Here wait in silence like the dead
And listen for the Moslem's tread
So anxiously the carrion-bird
Above them flaps his wing unheard!

  They come--that plunge into the water
Gives signal for the work of slaughter.
Now, Ghebers, now--if e'er your blades
  Had point or prowess prove them now--
Woe to the file that foremost wades!
  They come--a falchion greets each brow,
And as they tumble trunk on trunk
Beneath the gory waters sunk,
Still o'er their drowning bodies press
New victims quick and numberless;
Till scarce an arm in HAFED'S band,
  So fierce their toil, hath power to stir,
But listless from each crimson hand
  The sword hangs clogged with massacre.
Never was horde of tyrants met
With bloodier welcome--never yet
To patriot vengeance hath the sword
More terrible libations poured!

  All up the dreary, long ravine,
By the red, murky glimmer seen
Of half-quenched brands, that o'er the flood
Lie scattered round and burn in blood,
What ruin glares! what carnage swims!
Heads, blazing turbans, quivering limbs,
Lost swords that dropt from many a hand,
In that thick pool of slaughter stand;--
Wretches who wading, half on fire
  From the tost brands that round them fly,
'Twixt flood and flame in shrieks expire;--
  And some who grasp by those that die
Sink woundless with them, smothered o'er
In their dead brethren's gushing gore!

  But vainly hundreds, thousands bleed,
Still hundreds, thousands more succeed;
Countless as toward some flame at night
The North's dark insects wing their flight
And quench or perish in its light,
To this terrific spot they pour--
Till, bridged with Moslem bodies o'er,
It bears aloft their slippery tread,
And o'er the dying and the dead,
Tremendous causeway! on they pass.
Then, hapless Ghebers, then, alas,
What hope was left for you? for you,
Whose yet warm pile of sacrifice
Is smoking in their vengeful eyes;--
Whose swords how keen, how fierce they knew.
And burned with shame to find how few.

  Crusht down by that vast multitude
Some found their graves where first they stood;
While some with hardier struggle died,
And still fought on by HAFED'S side,
Who fronting to the foe trod back
Towards the high towers his gory track;
And as a lion swept away
  By sudden swell of JORDAN'S pride
From the wild covert where he lay,[265]
  Long battles with the o'erwhelming tide,
So fought he back with fierce delay
And kept both foes and fate at bay.

But whither now? their track is lost,
  Their prey escaped--guide, torches gone--
By torrent-beds and labyrinths crost,
  The scattered crowd rush blindly on--
"Curse on those tardy lights that wind,"
They panting cry, "so far behind;
"Oh, for a bloodhound's precious scent,
"To track the way the Ghebers went!"
Vain wish--confusedly along
They rush more desperate as more wrong:
Till wildered by the far-off lights,
Yet glittering up those gloomy heights,
Their footing mazed and lost they miss,
And down the darkling precipice
Are dasht into the deep abyss;
Or midway hang impaled on rocks,
A banquet yet alive for flocks
Of ravening vultures,--while the dell
Re-echoes with each horrible yell.
Those sounds--the last, to vengeance dear.
That e'er shall ring in HAFED'S ear,--
Now reached him as aloft alone
Upon the steep way breathless thrown,
He lay beside his reeking blade,
  Resigned, as if life's task were o'er,
Its last blood-offering amply paid,
  And IRAN'S self could claim no more.
One only thought, one lingering beam
Now broke across his dizzy dream
Of pain and weariness--'twas she,
  His heart's pure planet shining yet
Above the waste of memory
  When all life's other lights were set.
And never to his mind before
Her image such enchantment wore.
It seemed as if each thought that stained,
  Each fear that chilled their loves was past,
And not one cloud of earth remained
  Between him and her radiance cast;--
As if to charms, before so bright,
  New grace from other worlds was given.
And his soul saw her by the light
  Now breaking o'er itself from heaven!

A voice spoke near him--'twas the tone
Of a loved friend, the only one
Of all his warriors left with life
From that short night's tremendous strife.--
"And must we then, my chief, die here?
"Foes round us and the Shrine so near!"
These words have roused the last remains
  Of life within him:--"What! not yet
"Beyond the reach of Moslem chains!"

  The thought could make even Death forget
His icy bondage:--with a bound
He springs all bleeding from the ground
And grasps his comrade's arm now grown
Even feebler, heavier than his own.
And up the painful pathway leads,
Death gaining on each step he treads.
Speed them, thou God, who heardest their vow!
They mount--they bleed--oh save them now--
The crags are red they've clambered o'er,
The rock-weed's dripping with their gore;--
Thy blade too, HAFED, false at length,
How breaks beneath thy tottering strength!
Haste, haste--the voices of the Foe
Come near and nearer from below--
One effort more--thank Heaven! 'tis past,
They've gained the topmost steep at last.
And now they touch the temple's walls.
  Now HAFED sees the Fire divine--
When, lo!--his weak, worn comrade falls
  Dead on the threshold of the shrine.
"Alas, brave soul, too quickly fled!
  "And must I leave thee withering here,
"The sport of every ruffian's tread,
  "The mark for every coward's spear?
"No, by yon altar's sacred beams!"
He cries and with a strength that seems
Not of this world uplifts the frame
Of the fallen Chief and toward the flame
Bears him along; with death-damp hand
  The corpse upon the pyre he lays,
Then lights the consecrated brand
  And fires the pile whose sudden blaze
Like lightning bursts o'er OMAN'S Sea.--
"Now, Freedom's God! I come to Thee,"
The youth exclaims and with a smile
Of triumph vaulting on the pile,
In that last effort ere the fires
Have harmed one glorious limb expires!

What shriek was that on OMAN'S tide?
  It came from yonder drifting bark,
That just hath caught upon her side
  The death-light--and again is dark.
It is the boat--ah! why delayed?--
That bears the wretched Moslem maid;
Confided to the watchful care
  Of a small veteran band with whom
Their generous Chieftain would not share
  The secret of his final doom,
But hoped when HINDA safe and free
  Was rendered to her father's eyes,
Their pardon full and prompt would be
  The ransom of so dear a prize.--
Unconscious thus of HAFED'S fate,
And proud to guard their beauteous freight,
Scarce had they cleared the surfy waves
That foam around those frightful caves
When the curst war-whoops known so well
Came echoing from the distant dell--
Sudden each oar, upheld and still,
  Hung dripping o'er the vessel's side,
And driving at the current's will,
  They rockt along the whispering tide;
While every eye in mute dismay
  Was toward that fatal mountain turned.
Where the dim altar's quivering ray
  As yet all lone and tranquil burned.

Oh! 'tis not, HINDA, in the power
  Of Fancy's most terrific touch
To paint thy pangs in that dread hour--
  Thy silent agony--'twas such
As those who feel could paint too well,
But none e'er felt and lived to tell!
'Twas not alone the dreary state
Of a lorn spirit crusht by fate,
When tho' no more remains to dread
  The panic chill will not depart;--
When tho' the inmate Hope be dead,
  Her ghost still haunts the mouldering heart;
No--pleasures, hopes, affections gone,
The wretch may bear and yet live on
Like things within the cold rock found
Alive when all's congealed around.
But there's a blank repose in this,
A calm stagnation, that were bliss
To the keen, burning, harrowing pain,
Now felt thro' all thy breast and brain;--
That spasm of terror, mute, intense,
That breathless, agonized suspense
From whose hot throb whose deadly aching,
The heart hath no relief but breaking!

Calm is the wave--heaven's brilliant lights
  Reflected dance beneath the prow;--
Time was when on such lovely nights
  She who is there so desolate now
Could sit all cheerful tho' alone
  And ask no happier joy than seeing
That starlight o'er the waters thrown--
No joy but that to make her blest,
  And the fresh, buoyant sense of Being
Which bounds in youth's yet careless breast,--
Itself a star not borrowing light
But in its own glad essence bright.
How different now!--but, hark! again
The yell of havoc rings--brave men!
In vain with beating hearts ye stand
On the bark's edge--in vain each hand
Half draws the falchion from its sheath;
  All's o'er--in rust your blades may lie:--
He at whose word they've scattered death
  Even now this night himself must die!
Well may ye look to yon dim tower,
  And ask and wondering guess what means
The battle-cry at this dead hour--
  Ah! she could tell you--she who leans
Unheeded there, pale, sunk, aghast,
With brow against the dew-cold mast;--
  Too well she knows--her more than life,
Her soul's first idol and its last
  Lies bleeding in that murderous strife.
But see--what moves upon the height?
Some signal!--'tis a torch's light
  What bodes its solitary glare?
In gasping silence toward the Shrine
All eyes are turned--thine, HINDA, thine
  Fix their last fading life-beams there.
'Twas but a moment--fierce and high
The death-pile blazed into the sky
And far-away o'er rock and flood
  Its melancholy radiance sent:
While HAFED like a vision stood
Revealed before the burning pyre.
Tall, shadowy, like a Spirit of fire
  Shrined in its own grand element!
"'Tis he!"--the shuddering maid exclaims,--
  But while she speaks he's seen no more;
High burst in air the funeral flames,
  And IRAN'S hopes and hers are o'er!

One wild, heart-broken shriek she gave;
  Then sprung as if to reach that blaze
  Where still she fixt her dying gaze,
And gazing sunk into the wave.--
  Deep, deep,--where never care or pain
  Shall reach her innocent heart again!

       *       *       *       *       *

Farewell--farewell to thee. ARABY'S daughter!
  (Thus warbled a PERI beneath the dark sea,)
No pearl ever lay under OMAN'S green water
  More pure in its shell than thy Spirit in thee.

Oh! fair as the sea-flower close to thee growing,
  How light was thy heart till Love's witchery came,
Like the wind of the south[266] o'er a summer lute blowing,
  And husht all its music and withered its frame!

But long upon ARABY'S green sunny highlands
  Shall maids and their lovers remember the doom
Of her who lies sleeping among the Pearl Islands
  With naught but the sea-star[267] to light up her tomb.

And still when the merry date-season is burning
  And calls to the palm-groves the young and the old,
The happiest there from their pastime returning
  At sunset will weep when thy story is told.

The young village-maid when with flowers she dresses
  Her dark flowing hair for some festival day
Will think of thy fate till neglecting her tresses
  She mournfully turns from the mirror away.

Nor shall IRAN, beloved of her Hero! forget thee--
  Tho' tyrants watch over her tears as they start,
Close, close by the side of that Hero she'll set thee,
  Embalmed in the innermost shrine of her heart.

Farewell--be it ours to embellish thy pillow
  With everything beauteous that grows in the deep;
Each flower of the rock and each gem of the billow
  Shall sweeten thy bed and illumine thy sleep.

Around thee shall glisten the loveliest amber
  That ever the sorrowing sea-bird has wept;[268]
With many a shell in whose hollow-wreathed chamber
  We Peris of Ocean by moonlight have slept.

We'll dive where the gardens of coral lie darkling
  And plant all the rosiest stems at thy head;
We'll seek where the sands of the Caspian[269] are sparkling
  And gather their gold to strew over thy bed.

Farewell--farewell!--Until Pity's sweet fountain
  Is lost in the hearts of the fair and the brave,
They'll weep for the Chieftain who died on that mountain,
  They'll weep for the Maiden who sleeps in this wave.


The singular placidity with which FADLADEEN had listened during the latter
part of this obnoxious story surprised the Princess and FERAMORZ
exceedingly; and even inclined towards him the hearts of these
unsuspicious young persons who little knew the source of a complacency so
marvellous. The truth was he had been organizing for the last few days a
most notable plan of persecution against the poet in consequence of some
passages that had fallen from him on the second evening of recital,--which
appeared to this worthy Chamberlain to contain language and principles for
which nothing short of the summary criticism of the Chabuk[270] would be
advisable. It was his intention therefore immediately on their arrival at
Cashmere to give information to the King of Bucharia of the very dangerous
sentiments of his minstrel; and if unfortunately that monarch did not act
with suitable vigor on the occasion, (that is, if he did not give the
Chabuk to FERAMORZ and a place to FADLADEEN.) there would be an end, he
feared, of all legitimate government in Bucharia. He could not help
however auguring better both for himself and the cause of potentates in
general; and it was the pleasure arising from these mingled anticipations
that diffused such unusual satisfaction through his features and made his
eyes shine out like poppies of the desert over the wide and lifeless
wilderness of that countenance.

Having decided upon the Poet's chastisement in this manner he thought it
but humanity to spare him the minor tortures of criticism. Accordingly
when they assembled the following evening in the pavilion and LALLA ROOKH
was expecting to see all the beauties of her bard melt away one by one in
the acidity of criticism, like pearls in the cup of the Egyptian queen.--
he agreeably disappointed her by merely saying with an ironical smile that
the merits of such a poem deserved to be tried at a much higher tribunal;
and then suddenly passed off into a panegyric upon all Mussulman
sovereigns, more particularly his august and Imperial master, Aurungzebe,
--the wisest and best of the descendants of Timur,--who among other great
things he had done for mankind had given to him, FADLADEEN, the very
profitable posts of Betel-carrier and Taster of Sherbets to the Emperor,
Chief Holder of the Girdle of Beautiful Forms,[271] and Grand Nazir or
Chamberlain of the Haram.

They were now not far from that Forbidden River[272] beyond which no pure
Hindoo can pass, and were reposing for a time in the rich valley of Hussun
Abdaul, which had always been a favorite resting-place of the Emperors in
their annual migrations to Cashmere. Here often had the Light of the
Faith, Jehan-Guire, been known to wander with his beloved and beautiful
Nourmahal, and here would LALLA ROOKH have been happy to remain for ever,
giving up the throne of Bucharia and the world for FERAMORZ and love in
this sweet, lonely valley. But the time was now fast approaching when she
must see him no longer,--or, what was still worse, behold him with eyes
whose every look belonged to another, and there was a melancholy
preciousness in these last moments, which made her heart cling to them as
it would to life. During the latter part of the journey, indeed, she had
sunk into a deep sadness from which nothing but the presence of the young
minstrel could awake her. Like those lamps in tombs which only light up
when the air is admitted, it was only at his approach that her eyes became
smiling and animated. But here in this dear valley every moment appeared
an age of pleasure; she saw him all day and was therefore all day happy,--
resembling, she often thought, that people of Zinge[273] who attribute
the unfading cheerfulness they enjoy to one genial star that rises nightly
over their heads.[274]

The whole party indeed seemed in their liveliest mood during the few days
they passed in this delightful solitude. The young attendants of the
Princess who were here allowed a much freer range than they could safely
be indulged with in a less sequestered place ran wild among the gardens
and bounded through the meadows lightly as young roes over the aromatic
plains of Tibet. While FADLADEEN, in addition to the spiritual comfort
derived by him from a pilgrimage to the tomb of the Saint from whom the
valley is named, had also opportunities of indulging in a small way his
taste for victims by putting to death some hundreds of those unfortunate
little lizards,[275] which all pious Mussulmans make it a point to kill;--
taking for granted that the manner in which the creature hangs its head
is meant as a mimicry of the attitude in which the Faithful say their
prayers.

About two miles from Hussun Abdaul were those Royal Gardens which had
grown beautiful under the care of so many lovely eyes, and were beautiful
still though those eyes could see them no longer. This place, with its
flowers and its holy silence interrupted only by the dipping of the wings
of birds in its marble basins filled with the pure water of those hills,
was to LALLA ROOKH all that her heart could fancy of fragrance, coolness,
and almost heavenly tranquillity. As the Prophet said of Damascus, "it was
too delicious;"[276]--and here in listening to the sweet voice of
FERAMORZ or reading in his eyes what yet he never dared to tell her, the
most exquisite moments of her whole life were passed. One evening when
they had been talking of the Sultana Nourmahal, the Light of the Haram,
[277] who had so often wandered among these flowers, and fed with her own
hands in those marble basins the small shining fishes of which she was so
fond,--the youth in order to delay the moment of separation proposed to
recite a short story or rather rhapsody of which this adored Sultana was
the heroine. It related, he said, to the reconcilement of a sort of
lovers' quarrel which took place between her and the Emperor during a
Feast of Roses at Cashmere; and would remind the Princess of that
difference between Haroun-al-Raschid and his fair mistress Marida, which
was so happily made up by the soft strains of the musician Moussali. As
the story was chiefly to be told in song and FERAMORZ had unluckily
forgotten his own lute in the valley, he borrowed the vina of LALLA
ROOKH'S little Persian slave, and thus began:--


THE LIGHT OF THE HARAM.


Who has not heard of the Vale of CASHMERE,
  With its roses the brightest that earth ever gave,[278]
Its temples and grottos and fountains as clear
  As the love-lighted eyes that hang over their wave?

Oh! to see it at sunset,--when warm o'er the Lake
  Its splendor at parting a summer eve throws,
Like a bride full of blushes when lingering to take
  A last look of her mirror at night ere she goes!--
When the shrines thro' the foliage are gleaming half shown,
And each hallows the hour by some rites of its own.
Here the music of prayer from a minaret swells,
  Here the Magian his urn full of perfume is swinging,
And here at the altar a zone of sweet bells
  Round the waist of some fair Indian dancer is ringing.[279]
Or to see it by moonlight when mellowly shines
The light o'er its palaces, gardens, and shrines,
When the water-falls gleam like a quick fall of stars
And the nightingale's hymn from the Isle of Chenars
Is broken by laughs and light echoes of feet
From the cool, shining walks where the young people meet.--
Or at morn when the magic of daylight awakes
A new wonder each minute as slowly it breaks,
Hills, cupolas, fountains, called forth every one
Out of darkness as if but just born of the Sun.
When the Spirit of Fragrance is up with the day
From his Haram of night-flowers stealing away;
And the wind full of wantonness wooes like a lover
The young aspen-trees,[280]
till they tremble all over.
When the East is as warm as the light of first hopes,
  And day with his banner of radiance unfurled
Shines in thro' the mountainous portal[281] that opes,
  Sublime, from that Valley of bliss to the world!

But never yet by night or day,
In dew of spring or summer's ray,
Did the sweet Valley shine so gay
As now it shines--all love and light,
Visions by day and feasts by night!
A happier smile illumes each brow;
  With quicker spread each heart uncloses,
And all is ecstasy--for now
  The Valley holds its Feast of Roses;[282]
The joyous Time when pleasures pour
Profusely round and in their shower
Hearts open like the Season's Rose,--
  The Floweret of a hundred leaves[283]
Expanding while the dew-fall flows
  And every leaf its balm receives.

'Twas when the hour of evening came
  Upon the Lake, serene and cool,
When day had hid his sultry flame
  Behind the palms of BARAMOULE,
When maids began to lift their heads.
Refresht from their embroidered beds
Where they had slept the sun away,
And waked to moonlight and to play.
All were abroad:--the busiest hive
On BELA'S[284] hills is less alive
When saffron-beds are full in flower,
Than lookt the Valley in that hour.
A thousand restless torches played
Thro' every grove and island shade;
A thousand sparkling lamps were set
On every dome and minaret;
And fields and pathways far and near
Were lighted by a blaze so clear
That you could see in wandering round
The smallest rose-leaf on the ground,
Yet did the maids and matrons leave
Their veils at home, that brilliant eve;
And there were glancing eyes about
And cheeks that would not dare shine out
In open day but thought they might
Look lovely then, because 'twas night.
And all were free and wandering
  And all exclaimed to all they met,
That never did the summer bring
  So gay a Feast of Roses yet;--
The moon had never shed a light
  So clear as that which blest them there;
The roses ne'er shone half so bright,
  Nor they themselves lookt half so fair.

And what a wilderness of flowers!
It seemed as tho' from all the bowers
And fairest fields of all the year,
The mingled spoil were scattered here.
The lake too like a garden breathes
  With the rich buds that o'er it lie,--
As if a shower of fairy wreaths
  Had fallen upon it from the sky!
And then the sounds of joy,--the beat
Of tabors and of dancing feet;--
The minaret-crier's chant of glee
Sung from his lighted gallery,[285]
And answered by a ziraleet
From neighboring Haram, wild and sweet;--
The merry laughter echoing
From gardens where the silken swing[286]
Wafts some delighted girl above
The top leaves of the orange-grove;
Or from those infant groups at play
Among the tents[287] that line the way,
Flinging, unawed by slave or mother,
Handfuls of roses at each other.--
Then the sounds from the Lake,--the low whispering in boats,
  As they shoot thro' the moonlight,--the dipping of oars
And the wild, airy warbling that everywhere floats
  Thro' the groves, round the islands, as if all the shores
Like those of KATHAY uttered music and gave
An answer in song to the kiss on each wave.[288]
But the gentlest of all are those sounds full of feeling
That soft from the lute of some lover are stealing,--
Some lover who knows all the heart-touching power
Of a lute and a sigh in this magical hour.
Oh! best of delights as it everywhere is
To be near the loved _One_,--what a rapture is his
Who in moonlight and music thus sweetly may glide
O'er the Lake of CASHMERE with that _One_ by his side!

If woman can make the worst wilderness dear,
Think, think what a Heaven she must make of CASHMERE!

So felt the magnificent Son of ACBAR,
When from power and pomp and the trophies of war
He flew to that Valley forgetting them all
With the Light of the HARAM, his young NOURMAHAL.
When free and uncrowned as the Conqueror roved
By the banks of that Lake with his only beloved
He saw in the wreaths she would playfully snatch
From the hedges a glory his crown could not match,
And preferred in his heart the least ringlet that curled
Down her exquisite neck to the throne of the world.

  There's a beauty for ever unchangingly bright,
Like the long, sunny lapse of a summer-day's light,
Shining on, shining on, by no shadow made tender
Till Love falls asleep in its sameness of splendor.
This _was_ not the beauty--oh, nothing like this
That to young NOURMAHAL gave such magic of bliss!
But that loveliness ever in motion which plays
Like the light upon autumn's soft shadowy days,
Now here and now there, giving warmth as it flies
From the lip to the cheek, from the cheek to the eyes;
Now melting in mist and now breaking in gleams,
Like the glimpses a saint hath of Heaven in his dreams.
When pensive it seemed as if that very grace,
That charm of all others, was born with her face!
And when angry,--for even in the tranquillest climes
Light breezes will ruffle the blossoms sometimes--
The short, passing anger but seemed to awaken
New beauty like flowers that are sweetest when shaken.
If tenderness touched her, the dark of her eye
At once took a darker, a heavenlier dye,
From the depth of whose shadow like holy revealings
From innermost shrines came the light of her feelings.
Then her mirth--oh! 'twas sportive as ever took wing
From the heart with a burst like the wild-bird in spring;
Illumed by a wit that would fascinate sages,
Yet playful as Peris just loosed from their cages.[289]
While her laugh full of life, without any control
But the sweet one of gracefulness, rung from her soul;
And where it most sparkled no glance could discover,
In lip, cheek, or eyes, for she brightened all over,--
Like any fair lake that the breeze is upon
When it breaks into dimples and, laughs in the sun.
Such, such were the peerless enchantments that gave
NOURMAHAL the proud Lord of the East for her slave:
And tho' bright was his Haram,--a living parterre
Of the flowers[290] of this planet--tho' treasures were there,
For which SOLIMAN'S self might have given all the store
That the navy from OPHIR e'er winged to his shore,
Yet dim before _her_ were the smiles of them all
And the Light of his Haram was young NOURMAHAL!

But where is she now, this night of joy,
When bliss is every heart's employ?--
When all around her is so bright,
So like the visions of a trance,
That one might think, who came by chance
Into the vale this happy night,
He saw that City of Delight[291]
In Fairy-land, whose streets and towers
Are made of gems and light and flowers!
Where is the loved Sultana? where,
When mirth brings out the young and fair,
Does she, the fairest, hide her brow
In melancholy stillness now?

Alas!--how light a cause may move
Dissension between hearts that love!
Hearts that the world in vain had tried
And sorrow but more closely tied;
That stood the storm when waves were rough
Yet in a sunny hour fall off,
Like ships that have gone down at sea
When heaven was all tranquillity!
A something light as air--a look,
  A word unkind or wrongly taken--
Oh! love that tempests never shook,
  A breath, a touch like this hath shaken.

And ruder words will soon rush in
To spread the breach that words begin;
And eyes forget the gentle ray
They wore in courtship's smiling day;
And voices lose the tone that shed
A tenderness round all they said;
Till fast declining one by one
The sweetnesses of love are gone,
And hearts so lately mingled seem
Like broken clouds,--or like the stream
That smiling left the mountain's brow
  As tho' its waters ne'er could sever,
Yet ere it reach the plain below,
  Breaks into floods that part for ever.

Oh, you that have the charge of Love,
  Keep him in rosy bondage bound,
As in the Fields of Bliss above
  He sits with flowerets fettered round;--
Loose not a tie that round him clings.
Nor ever let him use his wings;
For even an hour, a minute's flight
Will rob the plumes of half their light.
Like that celestial bird whose nest
  Is found beneath far Eastern skies,
Whose wings tho' radiant when at rest
  Lose all their glory when he flies![292]

Some difference of this dangerous kind,--
By which, tho' light, the links that bind
The fondest hearts may soon be riven;
Some shadow in Love's summer heaven,
Which, tho' a fleecy speck at first
May yet in awful thunder burst;--
Such cloud it is that now hangs over
The heart of the Imperial Lover,
And far hath banisht from his sight
His NOURMAHAL, his Haram's Light!
Hence is it on this happy night
When Pleasure thro' the fields and groves
Has let loose all her world of loves
And every heart has found its own
He wanders joyless and alone
And weary as that bird of Thrace
Whose pinion knows no resting place.[293]

In vain the loveliest cheeks and eyes
This Eden of the Earth supplies
  Come crowding round--the cheeks are pale,
The eyes are dim:--tho' rich the spot
With every flower this earth has got
  What is it to the nightingale
If there his darling rose is not?[294]
In vain the Valley's smiling throng
Worship him as he moves along;
He heeds them not--one smile of hers
Is worth a world of worshippers.
They but the Star's adorers are,
She is the Heaven that lights the Star!

Hence is it too that NOURMAHAL,
Amid the luxuries of this hour,
Far from the joyous festival
Sits in her own sequestered bower,
With no one near to soothe or aid,
But that inspired and wondrous maid,
NAMOUNA, the Enchantress;--one
O'er whom his race the golden sun
For unremembered years has run,
Yet never saw her blooming brow
Younger or fairer than 'tis now.
Nay, rather,--as the west wind's sigh
Freshens the flower it passes by,--
Time's wing but seemed in stealing o'er
To leave her lovelier than before.
Yet on her smiles a sadness hung,
And when as oft she spoke or sung
Of other worlds there came a light
From her dark eyes so strangely bright
That all believed nor man nor earth
Were conscious of NAMOUNA'S birth!
All spells and talismans she knew,
From the great Mantra,[295] which around
The Air's sublimer Spirits drew,
To the gold gems[296] of AFRIC, bound
Upon the wandering Arab's arm
To keep him from the Siltim's[297] harm.
And she had pledged her powerful art,--
Pledged it with all the zeal and heart
Of one who knew tho' high her sphere,
What 'twas to lose a love so dear,--
To find some spell that should recall
Her Selim's[298] smile to NOURMAHAL!

  'Twas midnight--thro' the lattice wreathed
With woodbine many a perfume breathed
From plants that wake when others sleep.
From timid jasmine buds that keep
Their odor to themselves all day
But when the sunlight dies away
Let the delicious secret out
To every breeze that roams about;--
When thus NAMOUNA:--"'Tis the hour
"That scatters spells on herb and flower,
"And garlands might be gathered now,
"That twined around the sleeper's brow
"Would make him dream of such delights,
"Such miracles and dazzling sights
"As Genii of the Sun behold
"At evening from their tents of gold
"Upon the horizon--where they play
"Till twilight comes and ray by ray
"Their sunny mansions melt away.
"Now too a chaplet might be wreathed
"Of buds o'er which the moon has breathed,
"Which worn by her whose love has strayed
  "Might bring some Peri from the skies,
"Some sprite, whose very soul is made
  "Of flowerets' breaths and lovers' sighs,
"And who might tell"--
    "For me, for me,"
Cried NOURMAHAL impatiently,--
"Oh! twine that wreath for me to-night."
Then rapidly with foot as light
As the young musk-roe's out she flew
To cull each shining leaf that grew
Beneath the moonlight's hallowing beams
For this enchanted Wreath of Dreams.
Anemones and Seas of Gold,[299]
  And new-blown lilies of the river,
And those sweet flowerets that unfold
  Their buds on CAMADEVA'S quiver;[300]--
The tuberose, with her silvery light,
  That in the Gardens of Malay
Is called the Mistress of the Night,[301]
So like a bride, scented and bright,
  She comes out when the sun's away:--
Amaranths such as crown the maids
That wander thro' ZAMARA'S shades;[302]--
And the white moon-flower as it shows,
On SERENDIB'S high crags to those
Who near the isle at evening sail,
Scenting her clove-trees in the gale;
In short all flowerets and all plants,
  From the divine Amrita tree[303]
That blesses heaven's habitants
  With fruits of immortality,
Down to the basil tuft[304] that waves
Its fragrant blossom over graves,
  And to the humble rosemary
Whose sweets so thanklessly are shed
To scent the desert[305]and the dead:--
All in that garden bloom and all
Are gathered by young NOURMAHAL,
Who heaps her baskets with the flowers
  And leaves till they can hold no more;
Then to NAMOUNA flies and showers
  Upon her lap the shining store.
With what delight the Enchantress views
So many buds bathed with the dews
And beams of that blest hour!--her glance
  Spoke something past all mortal pleasures,
As in a kind of holy trance
  She hung above those fragrant treasures,
Bending to drink their balmy airs,
As if she mixt her soul with theirs.
And 'twas indeed the perfume shed
From flowers and scented flame that fed
Her charmed life--for none had e'er
Beheld her taste of mortal fare,
Nor ever in aught earthly dip,
But the morn's dew, her roseate lip.
Filled with the cool, inspiring smell,
The Enchantress now begins her spell,
Thus singing as she winds and weaves
In mystic form the glittering leaves:--

I know where the winged visions dwell
  That around the night-bed play;
I know each herb and floweret's bell,
  Where they hide their wings by day.
      Then hasten we, maid,
      To twine our braid,
To-morrow the dreams and flowers will fade.

The image of love that nightly flies
  To visit the bashful maid,
Steals from the jasmine flower that sighs
  Its soul like her in the shade.
The dream of a future, happier hour
  That alights on misery's brow,
Springs out of the silvery almond-flower
  That blooms on a leafless bough.[306]
      Then hasten we, maid,
      To twine our braid,
To-morrow the dreams and flowers will fade.

The visions that oft to worldly eyes
  The glitter of mines unfold
Inhabit the mountain-herb[307] that dyes
  The tooth of the fawn like gold.
The phantom shapes--oh touch not them--
  That appal the murderer's sight,
Lurk in the fleshly mandrake's stem,
  That shrieks when pluckt at night!
      Then hasten we, maid,
      To twine our braid,
To-morrow the dreams and flowers will fade.

The dream of the injured, patient mind
  That smiles at the wrongs of men
Is found in the bruised and wounded rind
  Of the cinnamon, sweetest then.
      Then hasten we, maid,
      To twine our braid,
To-morrow the dreams and flowers will fade.

No sooner was the flowery crown
Placed on her head than sleep came down,
Gently as nights of summer fall,
Upon the lids of NOURMAHAL;--
And suddenly a tuneful breeze
As full of small, rich harmonies
As ever wind that o'er the tents
Of AZAB[308] blew was full of scents,
Steals on her ear and floats and swells
  Like the first air of morning creeping
Into those wreathy, Red-Sea shells
  Where Love himself of old lay sleeping;[309]
And now a Spirit formed, 'twould seem,
  Of music and of light,--so fair,
So brilliantly his features beam,
  And such a sound is in the air
Of sweetness when he waves his wings,--
Hovers around her and thus sings:

From CHINDARA'S[310] warbling fount I come,
  Called by that moonlight garland's spell;
From CHINDARA'S fount, my fairy home,
  Wherein music, morn and night, I dwell.
Where lutes in the air are heard about
  And voices are singing the whole day long,
And every sigh the heart breathes out
  Is turned, as it leaves the lips, to song!
    Hither I come
    From my fairy home,
  And if there's a magic in Music's strain
    I swear by the breath
    Of that moonlight wreath
  Thy Lover shall sigh at thy feet again.

For mine is the lay that lightly floats
And mine are the murmuring, dying notes
That fall as soft as snow on the sea
And melt in the heart as instantly:--
And the passionate strain that, deeply going,
  Refines the bosom it trembles thro'
As the musk-wind over the water blowing
  Ruffles the wave but sweetens it too.

Mine is the charm whose mystic sway
The Spirits of past Delight obey;--
Let but the tuneful talisman sound,
And they come like Genii hovering round.
And mine is the gentle song that bears
  From soul to soul the wishes of love,
As a bird that wafts thro' genial airs
  The cinnamon-seed from grove to grove.[311]

'Tis I that mingle in one sweet measure
The past, the present and future of pleasure;
When Memory links the tone that is gone
  With the blissful tone that's still in the ear;
And Hope from a heavenly note flies on
  To a note more heavenly still that is near.

The warrior's heart when touched by me,
Can as downy soft and as yielding be
As his own white plume that high amid death
Thro' the field has shone--yet moves with a breath!
And oh, how the eyes of Beauty glisten.
  When Music has reached her inward soul,
Like the silent stars that wink and listen
  While Heaven's eternal melodies roll.
    So hither I come
    From my fairy home,
  And if there's a magic in Music's strain,
    I swear by the breath
    Of that moonlight wreath
  Thy Lover shall sigh at thy feet again.

'Tis dawn--at least that earlier dawn
Whose glimpses are again withdrawn,[312]
As if the morn had waked, and then
Shut close her lids of light again.
And NOURMAHAL is up and trying
  The wonders of her lute whose strings--
Oh, bliss!--now murmur like the sighing
  From that ambrosial Spirit's wings.
And then her voice--'tis more than human--
  Never till now had it been given
To lips of any mortal woman
  To utter notes so fresh from heaven;
Sweet as the breath of angel sighs
  When angel sighs are most divine.--
"Oh! let it last till night," she cries,
  "And he is more than ever mine."

And hourly she renews the lay,
  So fearful lest its heavenly sweetness
Should ere the evening fade away,--
  For things so heavenly have such fleetness!
But far from fading it but grows
Richer, diviner as it flows;
Till rapt she dwells on every string
  And pours again each sound along,
Like echo, lost and languishing,
  In love with her own wondrous song.

That evening, (trusting that his soul
  Might be from haunting love released
By mirth, by music and the bowl,)
  The Imperial SELIM held a feast
In his magnificent Shalimar:[313]--
In whose Saloons, when the first star
Of evening o'er the waters trembled,
The Valley's loveliest all assembled;
All the bright creatures that like dreams
Glide thro' its foliage and drink beams
Of beauty from its founts and streams;[314]
And all those wandering minstrel-maids,
Who leave--how _can_ they leave?--the shades
Of that dear Valley and are found
  Singing in gardens of the South[315]
Those songs that ne'er so sweetly sound
  As from a young Cashmerian's mouth.

There too the Haram's inmates smile;--
  Maids from the West, with sun-bright hair,
And from the Garden of the NILE,
  Delicate as the roses there;[316]--
Daughters of Love from CYPRUS rocks,
With Paphian diamonds in their locks;[317]--
Light PERI forms such as there are
On the gold Meads of CANDAHAR;[318]
And they before whose sleepy eyes
  In their own bright Kathaian bowers
Sparkle such rainbow butterflies
  That they might fancy the rich flowers
That round them in the sun lay sighing
Had been by magic all set flying.[319]

Every thing young, every thing fair
From East and West is blushing there,
Except--except--oh, NOURMAHAL!
Thou loveliest, dearest of them all,
The one whose smile shone out alone,
Amidst a world the only one;
Whose light among so many lights
Was like that star on starry nights,
The seaman singles from the sky,
To steer his bark for ever by!
Thou wert not there--so SELIM thought,
  And every thing seemed drear without thee;
But, ah! thou wert, thou wert,--and brought
  Thy charm of song all fresh about thee,
Mingling unnoticed with a band
Of lutanists from many a land,
And veiled by such a mask as shades
The features of young Arab maids,[320]--
A mask that leaves but one eye free,
To do its best in witchery,--
She roved with beating heart around
  And waited trembling for the minute
When she might try if still the sound
  Of her loved lute had magic in it.

The board was spread with fruits and wine,
With grapes of gold, like those that shine
On CASBIN hills;[321]--pomegranates full
  Of melting sweetness, and the pears,
And sunniest apples[322] that CAUBUL
  In all its thousand gardens[323] bears;--
Plantains, the golden and the green,
MALAYA'S nectared mangusteen;[324]
Prunes of BOCKHARA, and sweet nuts
  From the far groves of SAMARCAND,
And BASRA dates, and apricots,
  Seed of the Sun,[325] from IRAN'S land;--
With rich conserve of Visna cherries,[326]
Of orange flowers, and of those berries
That, wild and fresh, the young gazelles
Feed on in ERAC's rocky dells.[327]
All these in richest vases smile,
  In baskets of pure santal-wood,
And urns of porcelain from that isle[328]
  Sunk underneath the Indian flood,
Whence oft the lucky diver brings
Vases to grace the halls of kings.
Wines too of every clime and hue
Around their liquid lustre threw;
Amber Rosolli,[329]--the bright dew
From vineyards of the Green-Sea gushing;[330]
And SHIRAZ wine that richly ran
  As if that jewel large and rare,
The ruby for which KUBLAI-KHAN
Offered a city's wealth,[331] was blushing
  Melted within the goblets there!

And amply SELIM quaffs of each,
And seems resolved the flood shall reach
His inward heart,--shedding around
  A genial deluge, as they run,
That soon shall leave no spot undrowned
  For Love to rest his wings upon.
He little knew how well the boy
  Can float upon a goblet's streams,
Lighting them with his smile of joy;--
  As bards have seen him in their dreams,
Down the blue GANGES laughing glide
  Upon a rosy lotus wreath,[332]
Catching new lustre from the tide
  That with his image shone beneath.

But what are cups without the aid
  Of song to speed them as they flow?
And see--a lovely Georgian maid
  With all the bloom, the freshened glow
Of her own country maidens' looks,
When warm they rise from Teflis' brooks;[333]
And with an eye whose restless ray
  Full, floating, dark--oh, he, who knows
His heart is weak, of Heaven should pray
  To guard him from such eyes as those!--
  With a voluptuous wildness flings
  Her snowy hand across the strings
  Of a syrinda[334] and thus sings:--

Come hither, come hither--by night and by day,
  We linger in pleasures that never are gone;
Like the waves of the summer as one dies away
  Another as sweet and as shining comes on.
And the love that is o'er, in expiring gives birth
  To a new one as warm, as unequalled in bliss;
And, oh! if there be an Elysium on earth,
    It is this, it is this.[335]

Here maidens are sighing, and fragrant their sigh
  As the flower of the Amra just oped by a bee;[336]
And precious their tears as that rain from the sky,[337]
  Which turns into pearls as it falls in the sea.
Oh! think what the kiss and the smile must be worth
  When the sigh and the tear are so perfect in bliss,
And own if there be an Elysium on earth,
      It is this, it is this.

Here sparkles the nectar that hallowed by love
  Could draw down those angels of old from their sphere,
Who for wine of this earth[338] left the fountains above,
  And forgot heaven's stars for the eyes we have here.
And, blest with the odor our goblet gives forth,
  What Spirit the sweets of his Eden would miss?
For, oh! if there be an Elysium on earth,
      It is this, it is this.

The Georgian's song was scarcely mute,
  When the same measure, sound for sound,
Was caught up by another lute
  And so divinely breathed around
That all stood husht and wondering,
  And turned and lookt into the air,
As if they thought to see the wing
  Of ISRAFIL[339] the Angel there;--
So powerfully on every soul
That new, enchanted measure stole.
While now a voice sweet as the note
Of the charmed lute was heard to float
Along its chords and so entwine
  Its sounds with theirs that none knew whether
The voice or lute was most divine,
  So wondrously they went together:--

There's a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has told,
  When two that are linkt in one heavenly tie,
With heart never changing and brow never cold,
  Love on thro' all ills and love on till they die!
One hour of a passion so sacred is worth
  Whole ages of heartless and wandering bliss;
And, oh! if there be an Elysium on earth,
      It is this, it is this.

'Twas not the air, 'twas not the words,
But that deep magic in the chords
And in the lips that gave such power
As music knew not till that hour.
At once a hundred voices said,
"It is the maskt Arabian maid!"
While SELIM who had felt the strain
Deepest of any and had lain
Some minutes rapt as in a trance
  After the fairy sounds were o'er.
Too inly touched for utterance,
  Now motioned with his hand for more:--

Fly to the desert, fly with me,
Our Arab's tents are rude for thee;
But oh! the choice what heart can doubt,
Of tents with love or thrones without?
Our rocks are rough, but smiling there
The acacia waves her yellow hair,
Lonely and sweet nor loved the less
For flowering in a wilderness.

Our sands are bare, but down their slope
The silvery-footed antelope
As gracefully and gayly springs
As o'er the marble courts of kings.

Then come--thy Arab maid will be
The loved and lone acacia-tree.
The antelope whose feet shall bless
With their light sound thy loneliness.

Oh! there are looks and tones that dart
An instant sunshine thro' the heart,--
As if the soul that minute caught
Some treasure it thro' life had sought;

As if the very lips and eyes,
Predestined to have all our sighs
And never be forgot again,
Sparkled and spoke before us then!

So came thy every glance and tone,
When first on me they breathed and shone,
New as if brought from other spheres
Yet welcome as if loved for years.

Then fly with me,--if thou hast known
No other flame nor falsely thrown
A gem away, that thou hadst sworn
Should ever in thy heart be worn.

Come if the love thou hast for me
Is pure and fresh as mine for thee,--
Fresh as the fountain under ground,
When first 'tis by the lapwing found.[340]

But if for me thou dost forsake
Some other maid and rudely break
Her worshipt image from its base,
To give to me the ruined place;--

Then fare thee well--I'd rather make
My bower upon some icy lake
When thawing suns begin to shine
Than trust to love so false as thine.

There was a pathos in this lay,
  That, even without enchantment's art,
Would instantly have found its way
  Deep in to SELIM'S burning heart;
But breathing as it did a tone
To earthly lutes and lips unknown;
With every chord fresh from the touch
Of Music's Spirit,--'twas too much!
Starting he dasht away the cup,--
Which all the time of this sweet air
His hand had held, untasted, up,
As if 'twere fixt by magic there--
And naming her, so long unnamed,
So long unseen, wildly exclaimed,
"Oh NOURMAHAL! oh NOURMAHAL!
  "Hadst thou but sung this witching strain,
"I could forget--forgive thee all
"And never leave those eyes again."

The mask is off--the charm is wrought--
And SELIM to his heart has caught,
In blushes, more than ever bright,
His NOURMAHAL, his Haram's Light!
And well do vanisht frowns enhance
The charm of every brightened glance;
And dearer seems each dawning smile
For having lost its light awhile:
And happier now for all her sighs
As on his arm her head reposes
She whispers him, with laughing eyes,
  "Remember, love, the Feast of Roses!"


FADLADEEN, at the conclusion of this light rhapsody, took occasion to sum
up his opinion of the young Cashmerian's poetry,--of which, he trusted,
they had that evening heard the last.  Having recapitulated the epithets,
"frivolous"--"inharmonious"--"nonsensical," he proceeded to say that,
viewed in the most favorable light it resembled one of those Maldivian
boats, to which the Princess had alluded in the relation of her dream,--
a slight, gilded thing, sent adrift without rudder or ballast, and with
nothing but vapid sweets and faded flowers on board.  The profusion,
indeed, of flowers and birds, which this poet had ready on all occasions,
--not to mention dews, gems, etc.--was a most oppressive kind of opulence
to his hearers; and had the unlucky effect of giving to his style all the
glitter of the flower garden without its method, and all the flutter of
the aviary without its song. In addition to this, he chose his subjects
badly, and was always most inspired by the worst parts of them.  The
charms of paganism, the merits of rebellion,--these were the themes
honored with his particular enthusiasm; and, in the poem just recited, one
of his most palatable passages was in praise of that beverage of the
Unfaithful, wine;--"being, perhaps," said he, relaxing into a smile, as
conscious of his own character in the Haram on this point, "one of those
bards, whose fancy owes all its illumination to the grape, like that
painted porcelain,[341] so curious and so rare, whose images are only
visible when liquor is poured into it." Upon the whole, it was his
opinion, from the specimens which they had heard, and which, he begged to
say, were the most tiresome part of the journey, that--whatever other
merits this well-dressed young gentleman might possess--poetry was by no
means his proper avocation; "and indeed," concluded the critic, "from his
fondness for flowers and for birds, I would venture to suggest that a
florist or a bird-catcher is a much more suitable calling for him than a
poet."

They had now begun to ascend those barren mountains, which separate
Cashmere from the rest of India; and, as the heats were intolerable, and
the time of their encampments limited to the few hours necessary for
refreshment and repose, there was an end to all their delightful evenings,
and LALLA ROOKH saw no more of FERAMORZ. She now felt that her short dream
of happiness was over, and that she had nothing but the recollection of
its few blissful hours, like the one draught of sweet water that serves
the camel across the wilderness, to be her heart's refreshment during the
dreary waste of life that was before her. The blight that had fallen upon
her spirits soon found its way to her cheek, and her ladies saw with
regret--though not without some suspicion of the cause--that the beauty of
their mistress, of which they were almost as proud as of their own, was
fast vanishing away at the very moment of all when she had most need of
it. What must the King of Bucharia feel, when, instead of the lively and
beautiful LALLA ROOKH, whom the poets of Delhi had described as more
perfect than the divinest images in the house of AZOR,[342] he should
receive a pale and inanimate victim, upon whose cheek neither health nor
pleasure bloomed, and from whose eyes Love had fled,--to hide himself in
her heart?

If any thing could have charmed away the melancholy of her spirits, it
would have been the fresh airs and enchanting scenery of that Valley,
which the Persians so justly called the Unequalled.[343] But neither the
coolness of its atmosphere, so luxurious after toiling up those bare and
burning mountains,--neither the splendor of the minarets and pagodas, that
shone put from the depth of its woods, nor the grottoes, hermitages, and
miraculous fountains,[344] which make every spot of that region holy
ground,--neither the countless waterfalls, that rush into the Valley from
all those high and romantic mountains that encircle it, nor the fair city
on the Lake, whose houses, roofed with flowers,[345] appeared at a
distance like one vast and variegated parterre;--not all these wonders and
glories of the most lovely country under the sun could steal her heart for
a minute from those sad thoughts which but darkened and grew bitterer
every step she advanced.

The gay pomps and processions that met her upon her entrance into the
Valley, and the magnificence with which the roads all along were
decorated, did honor to the taste and gallantry of the young King. It was
night when they approached the city, and, for the last two miles, they had
passed under arches, thrown from hedge to hedge, festooned with only those
rarest roses from which the Attar Gul, more precious than gold, is
distilled, and illuminated in rich and fanciful forms with lanterns of the
triple-colored tortoise-shell of Pegu.[346] Sometimes, from a dark wood
by the side of the road, a display of fireworks would break out, so sudden
and so brilliant, that a Brahmin might fancy he beheld that grove, in
whose purple shade the God of Battles was born, bursting into a flame at
the moment of his birth;--while, at other times, a quick and playful
irradiation continued to brighten all the fields and gardens by which they
passed, forming a line of dancing lights along the horizon; like the
meteors of the north as they are seen by those hunters who pursue the
white and blue foxes on the confines of the Icy Sea.

These arches and fireworks delighted the Ladies of the Princess
exceedingly; and, with their usual good logic, they deduced from his taste
for illuminations, that the King of Bucharia would make the most exemplary
husband imaginable. Nor, indeed, could LALLA ROOKH herself help feeling
the kindness and splendor with which the young bridegroom welcomed
her;--but she also felt how painful is the gratitude which kindness from
those we cannot love excites; and that their best blandishments come over
the heart with all that chilling and deadly sweetness which we can fancy
in the cold, odoriferous wind[347] that is to blow over this earth in the
last days.

The marriage was fixed for the morning after her arrival, when she was,
for the first time, to be presented to the monarch in that Imperial Palace
beyond the lake, called the Shalimar.  Though never before had a night of
more wakeful and anxious thought been passed in the Happy Valley, yet,
when she rose in the morning, and her Ladies came around her, to assist in
the adjustment of the bridal ornaments, they thought they had never seen
her look half so beautiful.  What she had lost of the bloom and radiancy
of her charms was more than made up by that intellectual expression, that
soul beaming forth from the eyes, which is worth all the rest of
loveliness. When they had tinged her fingers with the Henna leaf, and
placed upon her brow a small coronet of jewels, of the shape worn by the
ancient Queens of Bucharia, they flung over her head the rose-colored
bridal veil, and she proceeded to the barge that was to convey her across
the lake;--first kissing, with a mournful look, the little amulet of
cornelian, which her father at parting had hung about her neck.

The morning was as fresh and fair as the maid on whose nuptials it rose,
and the shining lake, all covered with boats, the minstrels playing upon
the shores of the islands, and the crowded summer-houses on the green
hills around, with shawls and banners waving from their roofs, presented
such a picture of animated rejoicing, as only she, who was the object of
it all, did not feel with transport. To LALLA ROOKH alone it was a
melancholy pageant; nor could she have even borne to look upon the scene,
were it not for a hope that among the crowds around, she might once more
perhaps catch a glimpse of FERAMORZ. So much was her imagination haunted
by this thought that there was scarcely an islet or boat she passed on the
way at which her heart did not flutter with the momentary fancy that he
was there. Happy, in her eyes, the humblest slave upon whom the light of
his dear looks fell!--In the barge immediately after the Princess sat
FADLADEEN, with his silken curtains thrown widely apart, that all might
have the benefit of his august presence, and with his head full of the
speech he was to deliver to the King, "concerning FERAMORZ and literature
and the Chabuk as connected therewith."

They now had entered the canal which leads from the Lake to the splendid
domes and saloons of the Shalimar and went gliding on through the gardens
that ascended from each bank, full of flowering shrubs that made the air
all perfume; while from the middle of the canal rose jets of water, smooth
and unbroken, to such a dazzling height that they stood like tall pillars
of diamond in the sunshine. After sailing under the arches of various
saloons they at length arrived at the last and most magnificent, where the
monarch awaited the coming of his bride; and such was the agitation of her
heart and frame that it was with difficulty she could walk up the marble
steps which were covered with cloth of gold for her ascent from the barge.
At the end of the hall stood two thrones, as precious as the Cerulean
Throne of Koolburga,[348] on one of which sat ALIRIS, the youthful King
of Bucharia, and on the other was in a few minutes to be placed the most
beautiful Princess in the world. Immediately upon the entrance of LALLA
ROOKH into the saloon the monarch descended from his throne to meet her;
but scarcely had he time to take her hand in his when she screamed with
surprise and fainted at his feet. It was FERAMORZ, himself, who stood
before her! FERAMORZ, was, himself, the Sovereign of Bucharia, who in this
disguise had accompanied his young bride from Delhi, and having won her
love as an humble minstrel now amply deserved to enjoy it as a King.

The consternation of FADLADEEN at this discovery was, for the moment,
almost pitiable. But change of opinion is a resource too convenient in
courts for this experienced courtier not to have learned to avail himself
of it. His criticisms were all, of course, recanted instantly: he was
seized with an admiration of the King's verses, as unbounded as, he begged
him to believe, it was disinterested; and the following week saw him in
possession of an additional place, swearing by all the Saints of Islam
that never had there existed so great a poet as the Monarch ALIRIS, and
moreover ready to prescribe his favorite regimen of the Chabuk for every
man, woman and child that dared to think otherwise.

Of the happiness of the King and Queen of Bucharia, after such a
beginning, there can be but little doubt; and among the lesser symptoms it
is recorded of LALLA ROOKH that to the day of her death in memory of their
delightful journey she never called the King by any other name than
FERAMORZ.


[1] These particulars of the visit of the King of Bucharia to Aurungzebe
are found in _Dow's "History of Hindostan_," vol. iii. p. 392.

[2] Tulip cheek.

[3] The mistress of Mejnoun, upon whose story so many Romances in all the
languages of the East are founded.

[4] For the loves of this celebrated beauty with Khosrou and with Ferhad,
see _D'Herbelot, Gibbon, Oriental Collections_, etc.

[5] "The history of the loves of Dewilde and Chizer, the son of the
Emperor Alla, is written in an elegant poem, by the noble Chusero."---
_Ferishta_.

[6] Gul Reazee.

[7] "One mark of honor or knighthood bestowed by the Emperor is the
permission to wear a small kettle-drum at the bows of their saddles, which
at first was invented for the training of hawks, and to call them to the
lure, and is worn in the field by all sportsmen to that end."--_Fryer's_
Travels. "Those on whom the King has conferred the privilege must wear an
ornament of jewels on the right side of the turban, surmounted by a high
plume of the feathers of a kind of egret. This bird is found only in
Cashmere, and the feathers are carefully collected for the King, who
bestows them on his nobles."--_Elphinstone's_ Account of Cabul.

[8] "Khedar Khan, the Khakan, or King of Turquestan beyond the Gibon (at
the end of the eleventh century), whenever he appeared abroad was preceded
by seven hundred horsemen with silver battle-axes, and was followed by an
equal number bearing maces of gold. He was a great patron of poetry, and
it was he who used to preside at public exercises of genius, with four
basins of gold and silver by him to distribute among the poets who
excelled."--_Richardson's_ Dissertation prefixed to his Dictionary.

[9] "The kubdeh, a large golden knob, generally in the shape of a pine-
apple, on the top of the canopy over the litter or palanquin."--_Scott's_
Notes on the Bahardanush.

[10] In the Poem of Zohair, in the Moallakat, there is the following
lively description of "a company of maidens seated on camels." "They are
mounted in carriages covered with costly awnings, and with rose-colored
veils, the linings of which have the hue of crimson Andem-wood. "When they
ascend from the bosom of the vale, they sit forward on the saddlecloth,
with every mark of a voluptuous gayety. "Now, When they have reached the
brink of yon blue-gushing rivulet, they fix the poles of their tents like
the Arab with a settled mansion."

[11] See _Bernier's_ description of the attendants on Rauchanara Begum, in
her progress to Cashmere.

[12] This hypocritical Emperor would have made a worthy associate of
certain Holy Leagues.--"He held the cloak of religion [says Dow] between
his actions and the vulgar; and impiously thanked the Divinity for a
success which he owed to his own wickedness. When he was murdering and
persecuting his brothers and their families, he was building a magnificent
mosque at Delhi, as an offering to God for his assistance to him in the
civil wars. He acted as high priest at the consecration of this temple;
and made a practice of attending divine service there, in the humble dress
of a Fakeer. But when he lifted one hand to the Divinity, he, with the
other, signed warrants for the assassination of his relations."--"_History
of Hindostan_,". vol. iii. p.335. See also the curious letter of
Aurungzebe, given in the _Oriental Collections_, vol. i. p.320.

[13] "The idol at Jaghernat has two fine diamonds for eyes. No goldsmith
is suffered to enter the Pagoda, one having stole one of these eyes, being
locked up all night with the Idol."--_Tavernier_.

[14] See a description of these royal Gardens in "An Account of the
present State of Delhi, by Lieut. W. Franklin."--_Asiat. Research_, vol.
iv. p. 417.

[15] "In the neighborhood is Notte Gill, or the Lake of Pearl, which
receives this name from its pellucid water."--_Pennant's_ "Hindostan."
"Nasir Jung encamped in the vicinity of the Lake of Tonoor, amused himself
with sailing on that clear and beautiful water, and gave it the fanciful
name of Motee Talah, 'the Lake of Pearls,' which it still retains."--
_Wilks's_ "South of India."

[16] Sir Thomas Roe, Ambassador from James I. to Jehanguire.

[17] "The romance Wemakweazra, written in Persian verse, which contains
the loves of Wamak and Ezra, two celebrated lovers who lived before the
time of Mahomet."--_Note on the Oriental Tales_.

[18] Their amour is recounted in the Shah-Nameh of Ferdousi; and there is
much beauty in the passage which describes the slaves of Rodahver sitting
on the bank of the river and throwing flowers into the stream, in order to
draw the attention of the young Hero who is encamped on the opposite
side.--See _Champion's_ translation.

[19] Rustam is the Hercules of the Persians. For the particulars of his
victory over the Sepeed Deeve, or White Demon, see _Oriental Collections_,
vol. ii. p. 45.--Near the city of Shiraz is an immense quadrangular
monument, in commemoration of this combat, called the Kelaat-i-Deev
Sepeed, or castle of the White Giant, which Father Angelo, in his
"_Gazophilacium Persicum_," p.127, declares to have been the most
memorable monument of antiquity which he had seen in Persia.--See
_Ouseley's_ "Persian Miscellanies."

[20] "The women of the Idol, or dancing girls of the Pagoda, have little
golden bells, fastened to their feet, the soft harmonious tinkling of
which vibrates in unison with the exquisite melody of their voices."--
_Maurice's_ "Indian Antiquities."

"The Arabian courtesans, like the Indian women, have little golden bells
fastened round their legs, neck, and elbows, to the sound of which they
dance before the King. The Arabian princesses wear golden rings on their
fingers, to which little bells are suspended, as well as in the flowing
tresses of their hair, that their superior rank may be known and they
themselves receive in passing the homage due to them."--See _Calmet's_
Dictionary, art. "Bells."

[21] The Indian Apollo.-- "He and the three Ramas are described as youths
of perfect beauty, and the princesses of Hindustan were all passionately
in love with Chrishna, who continues to this hour the darling God of the
Indan women."--_Sir W. Jones_, on the Gods of Greece, Italy, and India.

[22] See _Turner's_ Embassy for a description of this animal, "the most
beautiful among the whole tribe of goats." The material for the shawls
(which is carried to Cashmere) is found next the skin.

[23] For the real history of this Impostor, whose original name was Hakem
ben Haschem, and who was called Mocanna from the veil of silver gauze (or,
as others say, golden) which he always wore, see _D'Herbelot_.

[24] Khorassan signifies, in the old Persian language, Province or Region
of the Sun.--_Sir W. Jones_.

[25] "The fruits of Meru are finer than those of any other place: and one
cannot see in any other city such palaces with groves, and streams, and
gardens."--_Ebn Haukal's_ Geography.

[26] One of the royal cities of Khorassan.

[27] Moses.

[28] Black was the color adopted by the Caliphs of the House of Abbas, in
their garments, turbans, and standards.

[29] "Our dark javelins, exquisitely wrought of Khathaian reeds, slender
and delicate."--_Poem of Amru_.

[30] Pichula, used anciently for arrows by the Persians.

[31] The Persians call this plant Gaz. The celebrated shaft of Isfendiar,
one of their ancient heroes, was made of it.--"Nothing can be more
beautiful than the appearance of this plant in flower during the rains on
the banks of rivers, where it is usually interwoven with a lovely twining
asclepias."--_Sir W. Jones_..

[32] The oriental plane. "The chenar is a delightful tree; its bole is of
a fine white and smooth bark; and its foliage, which grows in a tuft at
the summit, is of a bright green."--_Morier's Travels_..

[33] The burning fountains of Brahma near Chittogong, esteemed as
holy.--_Turner_.

[34] China.

[35] "The name of tulip is said to be of Turkish extraction, and given to
the flower on account of its resembling a turban."--_Beckmann_'s History
of Inventions.

[36] "The inhabitants of Bucharia wear a round cloth bonnet, shaped much
after the Polish fashion, having a large fur border. They tie their
kaftans about the middle with a girdle of a kind of silk crape, several
times round the body."--_Account of Independent Tartary, in Pinkerton's
Collection_.

[37] In the war of the Caliph Mahadi against the Empress Irene, for an
account of which _vide Gibbon_, vol. x.

[38] When Soliman travelled, the eastern writers say, "He had a carpet of
green silk on which his throne was placed, being of a prodigious length
and breadth, and sufficient for all his forces to stand upon, the men
placing themselves on his right hand, and the spirits on his left; and
that when all were in order, the wind, at his command, took up the carpet,
and transported it, with all that were upon it, wherever he pleased; the
army of birds at the same time flying over their heads, and forming a kind
of canopy to shade them from the sun."--Sale's Koran, vol. ii. p. 214,
note.

[39] The transmigration of souls was one of his doctrines.--_Vide
D'Herbelot_..

[40] "And when we said unto the angels. Worship Adam, they all worshipped
him except Eblis (Lucifer), who refused." _The. Koran_, chap. ii.

[41] Moses.

[42] Jesus.

[43] The Amu, which rises in the Belur Tag, or Dark Mountains, and running
nearly from east to west, splits into two branches; one of which falls
into the Caspian Sea, and the other into Aral Nahr, or the Lake of Eagles.

[44] The nightingale.

[45] The cities of Com (or Koom) and Cashan are full of mosques,
mausoleums and sepulchres of the descendants of Ali, the Saints of Persia
--_Chardin_..

[46] An island in the Persian Gulf, celebrated for its white wine.

[47] The miraculous well at Mecca: so called, says Sale, from the
murmuring of its waters.

[48] The god Hannaman.--"Apes are in many parts of India highly venerated,
out of respect to the God Hannaman, a deity partaking of the form of that
race."--_Pennant's_ Hindoostan. See a curious account in _Stephen's
Persia_, of a solemn embassy from some part of the Indies to Goa when the
Portuguese were there, offering vast treasures for the recovery of a
monkey's tooth, which they held in great veneration, and which had been
taken away upon the conquest of the kingdom of Jafanapatan.

[49] A kind of lantern formerly used by robbers, called the Hand of Glory,
the candle for which was made of the fat of a dead malefactor. This,
however, was rather a western than an eastern superstition.

[50] The material of which images of Gaudma (the Birman Deity) are made,
is held sacred. "Birmans may not purchase the marble in mass, but are
suffered, and indeed encouraged, to buy figures of the Deity ready made."
--_Sytnes's_ "Ava," vol. ii. p. 876.

[51] "It is commonly said in Persia, that if a man breathe in the hot
south wind, which in June or July passes over that flower (the Kerzereh),
it will kill him."--_Thevenot_.

[52] The humming bird is said to run this risk for the purpose of picking
the crocodile's teeth. The same circumstance is related of the lapwing, as
a fact to which he was witness, by _Paul Lucas, "Voyage fait en_ 1714."

The ancient story concerning the Trochilus, or humming-bird, entering with
impunity into the mouth of the crocodile, is firmly believed at
Java.--_Barrow's "Cochin-China_."

[53] "The feast of Lanterns celebrated at Yamtcheou with more magnificence
than anywhere else! and the report goes that the illuminations there are
so splendid, that an Emperor once, not daring openly to leave his Court to
go thither, committed himself with the Queen and several Princesses of his
family into the hands of a magician, who promised to transport them
thither in a trice. He made them in the night to ascend magnificent
thrones that were borne up by swans, which in a moment arrived at
Yamtcheou. The Emperor saw at his leisure all the solemnity, being carried
upon a cloud that hovered over the city and descended by degrees; and came
back again with the same speed and equipage, nobody at court perceiving
his absence."--_The Present State of China_," p. 156.

[54] "The vulgar ascribe it to an accident that happened in the family of
a famous mandarin, whose daughter, walking one evening upon the shore of a
lake, fell in and was drowned: this afflicted father, with his family, ran
thither, and the better to find her, he caused a great company of lanterns
to be lighted. All the inhabitants of the place thronged after him with
torches. The year ensuing they made fires upon the shores the same day;
they continued the ceremony every year, every one lighted his lantern, and
by degrees it commenced into a custom."--_The Present State of China_."

[55] "Thou hast ravished my heart with one of thine eyes."--_Sol. Song_.

[56] "They tinged the ends of her fingers scarlet with Henna, so that they
resembled branches of coral."--_Story of Prince Futtun in Bahardanush_.

[57] "The women blacken the inside of their eyelids with a powder named
the black Kohol."--_Russell_.

"None of these ladies," says _Shaw_, "take themselves to be completely
dressed, till they have tinged their hair and edges of their eyelids with
the powder of lead ore. Now, as this operation is performed by dipping
first into the powder a small wooden bodkin of the thickness of a quill,
and then drawing it afterwards through the eyelids over the ball of the
eye, we shall have a lively image of what the Prophet (Jer. iv. 30) may be
supposed to mean by _rending the eyes with painting_. This practice is no
doubt of great antiquity; for besides the instance already taken notice
of, we find that where Jezebel is said (2 Kings ix. 30.) _to have painted
her face_, the original words are, _she adjusted her eyes with the powder
of lead-ore_."--_Shaw's_ Travels.

[58] "The appearance of the blossoms of the gold-colored Campac on the
black hair of the Indian women has supplied the Sanscrit Poets with many
elegant allusions."--See _Asiatic Researches_, vol. iv.

[59] A tree famous for its perfume, and common on the hills of
Yemen.--_Niebuhr_.

[60] Of the genus mimosa "which droops its branches whenever any person
approaches it, seeming as if it saluted those who retire under its
shade."--_Niebuhr_.

[61] Cloves are a principal ingredient in the composition of the perfumed
rods, which men of rank keep constantly burning in their presence.--
_Turner's_ "Tibet."

[62] "Thousands of variegated loories visit the coral-trees."--_Barrow_.

[63] "In Mecca there are quantities of blue pigeons, which none will
affright or abuse, much less kill."--_Pitt's_ Account of the Mahometans.

[64] "The Pagoda Thrush is esteemed among the first choristers of India.
It sits perched on the sacred pagodas, and from thence delivers its
melodious song."--_Pennant's_ "Hindostan."

[65] _Tavernier_ adds, that while the Birds of Paradise lie in this
intoxicated state, the emmets come and eat off their legs; and that hence
it is they are said to have no feet.

[66] Birds of Paradise, which, at the nutmeg season, come in flights from
the southern isles to India; and "the strength of the nutmeg," says
_Tavernier_, "so intoxicates them that they fall dead drunk to the earth."

[67] "That bird which liveth in Arabia, and buildeth its nest with
cinnamon."--_Brown's_ Vulgar Errors.

[68] "The spirits of the martyrs will be lodged in the crops of green
birds."--_Gibbon_, vol. ix. p. 421.

[69] Shedad, who made the delicious gardens of Irim, in imitation of
Paradise, and was destroyed by lightning the first time he attempted to
enter them.

[70] "My Pandits assure me that the plant before us (the Nilica) is their
Sephalica, thus named because the bees are supposed to sleep on its
blossoms."--_Sir W. Jones_.

[71] They deterred it till the King of Flowers should ascend his throne of
enamelled foliage."--_The Bahardanush_".

[72] "One of the head-dresses of the Persian women is composed of a light
golden chain-work, set with small pearls, with a thin gold plate pendant,
about the bigness of a crown-piece, on which is impressed an Arabian
prayer, and which hangs upon the cheek below the ear."--_Hanway's_
Travels.

[73] "Certainly the women of Yezd are the handsomest women in Persia. The
proverb is, that to live happy a man must have a wife of Yezd, eat the
bread of Yezdecas, and drink the wine of Shiraz."--_Tavernier_.

[74] Musnuds are cushioned seats, usually reserved for persons of
distinction.

[75] The Persians, like the ancient Greeks call their musical modes or
Perdas by the names of different countries or cities, as the mode of
Isfahan, the mode of Irak, etc.

[76] A river which flows near the ruins of Chilminar.

[77] "To the north of us (on the coast of the Caspian, near Badku,) was a
mountain, which sparkled like diamonds, arising from the sea-glass and
crystals with which it abounds."--_Journey of the Russian Ambassador to
Persia_, 1746.

[78] "To which will be added, the sound of the bells, hanging on the
trees, which will be put in motion by the wind proceeding from the throne
of God, as often as the blessed wish for music."--_Sale_.

[79] "Whose wanton eyes resemble blue water-lilies, agitated by the
breeze."--_Jayadeva_.

[80] The blue lotos, which grows in Cashmere and in Persia.

[81] It has been generally supposed that the Mahometans prohibit all
pictures of animals; but _Toderini_ shows that, though the practice is
forbidden by the Koran, they are not more averse to painted figures and
images than other people. From Mr. Murphy's work, too, we find that the
Arabs of Spain had no objection to the introduction of figures into
Painting.

[82] This is not quite astronomically true. "Dr. Hadley [says Keil] has
shown that Venus is brightest when she is about forty degrees removed from
the sun; and that then but _only a fourth part_ of her lucid disk is to be
seen from the earth."

[83] The wife of Potiphar, thus named by the Orientals. The passion which
this frail beauty of antiquity conceived for her young Hebrew slave has
given rise to a much esteemed poem in the Persian language, entitled
_Yusef vau Zelikha_, by _Noureddin Jami;_ the manuscript copy of which, in
the Bodleian Library at Oxford, is supposed to be the finest in the whole
world."--_Note upon Nott's Translation of Hafez_."

[84] The particulars of Mahomet's amour with Mary, the Coptic girl, in
justification of which he added a new chapter to the Koran, may be found
in _Gagnier's Notes upon Abulfeda_, p. 151.

[85] "Deep blue is their mourning color." _Hanway_.

[86] The sorrowful nyctanthes, which begins to spread its rich odor after
sunset.

[87] "Concerning the vipers, which Pliny says were frequent among the
balsam-trees, I made very particular inquiry; several were brought me
alive both to Yambo and Jidda."--_Bruce_.

[88] In the territory of Istkahar there is a kind of apple, half of which
is sweet and half sour.--_Ebn Haukal_.

[89] "The place where the Whangho, a river of Tibet, rises, and where
there are more than a hundred springs, which sparkle like stars; whence it
is called Hotun-nor, that is, the Sea of Stars."--_Description of Tibet in
Pinkerton_.

[90] "The Lescar or Imperial Camp is divided, like a regular town, into
squares, alleys, and streets, and from a rising ground furnishes one of
the most agreeable prospects in the world. Starting up in a few hours in
an uninhabited plain, it raises the idea of a city built by enchantment.
Even those who leave their houses in cities to follow the prince in his
progress are frequently so charmed with the Lescar, when situated in a
beautiful and convenient place, that they cannot prevail with themselves
to remove. To prevent this inconvenience to the court, the Emperor, after
sufficient time is allowed to the tradesmen to follow, orders them to be
burnt out of their tents."--_Dow's Hindostan_.

[91] The edifices of Chilminar and Balbec are supposed to have been built
by the Genii, acting under the orders of Jan ben Jan, who governed the
world long before the time of Adam.

[92] "A superb camel, ornamented with strings and tufts of small
shells."--_Ali Bey_.

[93] A native of Khorassan, and allured southward by means of the water of
a fountain between Shiraz and Ispahan, called the Fountain of Birds, of
which it is so fond that it will follow wherever that water is carried.

[94] "Some of the camels have bells about their necks, and some about
their legs, like those which our carriers put about their fore-horses'
necks, which together with the servants (who belong to the camels, and
travel on foot), singing all night, make a pleasant noise, and the journey
passes away delightfully."--_Pitt's_ Account of the Mahometans.

"The camel-driver follows the camels singing, and sometimes playing upon
his pipe; the louder he sings and pipes, the faster the camels go. Nay,
they will stand still when he gives over his music."--_Tavernier_.

[95] "This trumpet is often called, in Abyssinia, _nesser cano_, which
signifies the Note of the Eagle."--_Note of Bruce's Editor_.

[96] The two black standards borne before the Caliphs of the House of
Abbas were called, allegorically, The Night and The Shadow.--See _Gibbon_.

[97] The Mohometan religion.

[98] "The Persians swear by the Tomb of Shad Besade, who is buried at
Casbin; and when one desires another to asseverate a matter he will ask
him, if he dare swear by the Holy Grave."--_Struy_.

[99] Mahadi, in a single pilgrimage to Mecca, expended six millions of
dinars of gold.

[100] The inhabitants of Hejaz or Arabia Petraea, called by an Eastern
writer "The People of the Rock."--_Ebn Haukal_.

[101] "Those horses, called by the Arabians Kochlani, of whom a written
genealogy has been kept for 2000 years.  They are said to derive their
origin from King Solomon's steeds."--_Niebuhr_.

[102] "Many of the figures on the blades of their swords are wrought in
gold or silver, or in marquetry with small gems."--_Asiat. Misc_. v. i.

[103] Azab or Saba.

[104] "The chiefs of the Uzbek Tartars wear a plume of white heron's
feathers in their turbans."--_Account of Independent Tartary_.

[105] In the mountains of Nishapour and Tous in (Khorassan) they find
turquoises.--_Ebn Huukal_.

[106] The Ghebers or Guebres, those original natives of Persia, who
adhered to their ancient faith, the religion of Zoroaster, and who, after
the conquest of their country by the Arabs, were either persecuted at
home, or forced to become wanderers abroad.

[107] "Yezd, the chief residence of those ancient natives who worship the
Sun and the Fire, which latter they have carefully kept lighted, without
being once extinguished for a moment, about 3000 years, on a mountain near
Yezd, called Ater Quedah, signifying the House or Mansion of the Fire. He
is reckoned very unfortunate who dies off that mountain."--_Stephen's
Persia_.

[108] When the weather is hazy, the springs of Naphtha (on an island near
Baku) boil up the higher, and the Naphtha often takes fire on the surface
of the earth, and runs in a flame into the sea to a distance almost
incredible."--_Hanway on the Everlasting Fire at Baku_.

[109] _Savary_ says of the south wind, which blows in Egypt from February
to May, "Sometimes it appears only in the shape of an impetuous whirlwind,
which passes rapidly, and is fatal to the traveller, surprised in the
middle of the deserts. Torrents of burning sand roll before it, the
firmament is enveloped in a thick veil, and the sun appears of the color
of blood. Sometimes whole caravans are buried in it."

[110] In the great victory gained by Mahomed at Beder, he was assisted,
say the Mussulmans, by three thousand angels led by Gabriel mounted on his
horse Hiazum.--See _The Koran and its Commentators_.

[111] The Techir, or cry of the Arabs. "Alla Acbar!" says Ockley, means,
"God is most mighty."

[112] The ziraleet is a kind of chorus, which the women of the East sing
upon joyful occasions.

[113] The Dead Sea, which contains neither animal nor vegetable life.

[114] The ancient Oxus.

[115] A city of Transoxiana.

[116] "You never can cast your eyes on this tree, but you meet there
either blossoms or fruit; and as the blossom drops underneath on the
ground (which is frequently covered with these purple-colored flowers),
others come forth in their stead," etc.--_Nieuhoff_.

[117] The Demons of the Persian mythology.

[118] Carreri mentions the fire-flies in India during the rainy
season.--See his Travels.

[119] Sennacherib, called by the Orientals King of Moussal.--_D'Herbelot_.

[120] Chosroes. For the description of his Throne or Palace, see _Gibbon
and D'Herbelot_.

There were said to be under this Throne or Palace of Khosrou Parviz a
hundred vaults filled with "treasures so immense that some Mahometan
writers tell us, their Prophet to encourage his disciples carried them to
a rock which at his command opened and gave them a prospect through it of
the treasures of Khosrou."--_Universal History_.

[121] "The crown of Gerashid is cloudy and tarnished before the heron tuft
of thy turban."--From one of the elegies or songs in praise of Ali,
written in characters of gold round the gallery of Abbas's tomb.--See
_Chardin_.

[122] The beauty of Ali's eyes was so remarkable, that whenever the
Persians would describe anything as very lovely, they say it is Ayn Hali,
or the Eyes of Ali.--_Chardin_.

[123] "Nakshab, the name of a city in Transoxiana, where they say there is
a well, in which the appearance of the moon is to be seen night and day."

[124] The Shechinah, called Sakfnat in the Koran.--See _Sale's Note_,
chap. ii.

[125] The parts of the night are made known as well by instruments of
music, as by the rounds of the watchmen with cries and small drums.--See
_Burder's Oriental Customs_, vol. i. p. 119.

[126] The Serrapurda, high screens of red cloth, stiffened with cane, used
to enclose a considerable space round the royal tents.--_Notes on the
Bakardanush.

The tents of Princes were generally illuminated. Norden tells us that the
tent of the Bey of Girge was distinguished from the other tents by forty
lanterns being suspended before it.--See _Harmer's Observations on Job_.

[127] "From the groves of orange trees at Kauzeroon the bees cull a
celebrated honey.--_Morier's Travels_.

[128] "A custom still subsisting at this day, seems to me to prove that
the Egyptians formerly sacrificed a young virgin to the God of the Nile;
for they now make a statue of earth in shape of a girl, to which they give
the name of the Betrothed Bride, and throw it into the river."--_Savary_.

[129] That they knew the secret of the Greek fire among the Mussulmans
early in the eleventh century, appears from _Dow's_ account of Mamood I.
"When he at Moultan, finding that the country of the Jits was defended by
great rivers, he ordered fifteen hundred boats to be built, each of which
he armed with six iron spikes, projecting from their prows and sides, to
prevent their being boarded by the enemy, who were very expert in that
kind of war. When he had launched this fleet, he ordered twenty archers
into each boat, and five others with fire-balls, to burn the craft of the
Jits, and naphtha to set the whole river on fire."

[130] The Greek fire, which was occasionally lent by the emperors to their
allies. "It was," says Gibbon, "either launched in red-hot balls of stone
and iron, or darted in arrows and javelins, twisted round with flax and
tow, which had deeply imbibed the imflammable oil."

[131] See _Hanway's_ Account of the Springs of Naphtha at Baku (which is
called by _Lieutenant Pottinger_ Joala Mookee, or, the Flaming Mouth),
taking fire and running into the sea. _Dr. Cooke_, in his Journal,
mentions some wells in Circassia, strongly impregnated with this
inflammable oil, from which issues boiling water. "Though the weather," he
adds, "was now very cold, the warmth of these wells of hot water produced
near them the verdure and flowers of spring.'

[132] "At the great festival of fire, called the Sheb Seze, they used to
set fire to large bunches of dry combustibles, fastened round wild beasts
and birds, which being then let loose, the air and earth appeared one
great illumination; and as these terrified creatures naturally fled to the
woods for shelter, it is easy to conceive the conflagrations they
produced."--_Richardson's Dissertation_.

[133] "The righteous shall be given to drink of pure wine, sealed: the
seal whereof shall be musk."--_Koran_, chap lxxxiii.

[134] The Afghans believe each of the numerous solitudes and deserts of
their country to be inhabited by a lonely demon, whom they call The
Ghoolee Beeabau, or Spirit of the Waste. They often illustrate the
wildness of any sequestered tribe, by saying they are wild as the Demon of
the Waste."--_Elphinstone's Caubul_.

[135] "They have all a great reverence for burial-grounds, which they
sometimes call by the poetical name of Cities of the Silent, and which
they people with the ghosts of the departed, who sit each at the head of
his own grave, invisible to mortal eyes."--_Elphinstone_.

[136] The celebrity of Mazagong is owing to its mangoes, which are
certainly the best I ever tasted. The parent-tree, from which all those of
this species have been grafted, is honored during the fruit-season by a
guard of sepoys; and, in the reign of Shah Jehan, couriers ware stationed
between Delhi and the Mahratta coast, to secure an abundant and fresh
supply of mangoes for the royal table."--_Mrs. Graham's_ Journal of
Residence in India.

[137] This old porcelain is found in digging, and "if it is esteemed, it
is not because it has acquired any new degree of beauty in the earth, but
because it has retained its ancient beauty; and this alone is of great
importance in China, where they give large sums for the smallest vessels
which were used under the Emperors Yan and Chun, who reigned many ages
before the dynasty of Tang, at which time porcelain began to be used by
the Emperors" (about the year 442).--_Dunn's_ Collection of curious
Observations, etc.

[138] The blacksmith Gao, who successfully resisted the tyrant Zohak, and
whose apron became the royal standard of Persia.

[139] "The Huma, a bird peculiar to the East. It is supposed to fly
constantly in the air, and never touch the ground; it is looked upon as a
bird of happy omen; and that every head it overshades will in time wear a
crown."--_Richardson_.

In the terms of alliance made by Fuzel Oola Khan with Hyder in 1760, one
of the stipulations was, "that he should have the distinction of two
honorary attendants standing behind him, holding fans composed of the
feathers of the humma, according to the practice of his family."--
_Wilks's_ South of India. He adds in a note;--"The Humma is a fabulous
bird. The head over which its shadow once passes will assuredly be circled
with a crown. The splendid little bird suspended over the throne of Tippoo
Sultaun, found at Seringapatam in 1799, was intended to represent this
poetical fancy."

[140] "To the pilgrims to Mount Sinai we must attribute the inscriptions,
figures, etc., on those rocks, which have from thence acquired the name of
the Written Mountain."--_Volney_.

M. Gebelin and others have been at much pains to attach some mysterious
and important meaning to these inscriptions; but Niebuhr, as well as
Volney, thinks that they must have been executed at idle hours by the
travellers to Mount Sinai, "who were satisfied with cutting the unpolished
rock with any pointed instrument; adding to their names and the date of
their journeys some rude figures, which bespeak the hand of a people but
little skilled in the arts."--_Niebuhr_.

[141] The Story of Sinbad.

[142] "The Camalata (called by Linnaeus, Ipomaea) is the most beautiful of
its order, both in the color and form of its leaves and flowers; its
elegant blossoms are 'celestial rosy red, Love's proper hue,' and have
justly procured is the name of Camalata, or Love's creeper."--_Sir W.
Jones_.

[143] "According to Father Premare, in his tract on Chinese Mythology, the
mother of Fo-hi was the daughter of heaven, surnamed Flower-loving; and as
the nymph was walking alone on the bank of a river, she found herself
encircled by a rainbow, after which she became pregnant, and, at the end
of twelve years, was delivered of a son radiant as herself."--_Asiat.
Res_.

[144] "Numerous small islands emerge from the Lake of Cashmere. One is
called Char Chenaur, from the plane trees upon it.--_Foster_.

[145] "The Altan Kol or Golden River of Tibet, which runs into the Lakes
of Sing-su-hay, has abundance of gold in its sands, which employs the
inhabitants all the summer in gathering it."--_Description of Tibet in
Pinkerton_.

[146] "The Brahmins of this province insist that the blue campac flowers
only in Paradise."--_Sir W. Jones_. It appears, however, from a curious
letter of the Sultan of Menangeabow, given by Marsden, that one place on
earth may lay claim to the possession of it. "This is the Sultan, who
keeps the flower champaka that is blue, and to be found in no other
country but his, being yellow elsewhere."--_Marsden's_ Sumatra.

[147] "The Mahometans suppose that falling stars are the firebrands
wherewith the good angels drive away the bad, when they approach too near
the empyrean or verge or the heavens."--_Fryer_.

[148] The Forty Pillars; so the Persians call the ruins of Persepolis. It
is imagined by them that this palace and the edifices at Balbec were built
by Genii, for the purpose of hiding in their subterraneous caverns immense
treasures, which still remain there.--_D'Herbelot, Volney_.

[149] _Diodorus_ mentions the Isle of Panchai, to the south of Arabia
Felix, where there was a temple of Jupiter. This island, or rather cluster
of isles, has disappeared, "sunk [says _Grandpre_] in the abyss made by
the fire beneath their foundations."--_Voyage to the Indian Ocean_.

[150] The Isles of Panchaia.

[151] "The cup of Jamshid, discovered, they say, when digging for the
foundations of Persepolis."-_Richardson_.

[152] "It is not like the Sea of India, whose bottom is rich with pearls
and ambergris, whose mountains of the coast are stored with gold and
precious stones, whose gulfs breed creatures that yield ivory, and among
the plants of whose shores are ebony, red wood, and the wood of Hairzan,
aloes, camphor, cloves, sandal-wood, and all other spices and aromatics;
where parrots and peacocks are birds of the forest, and musk and civit are
collected upon the lands."--_Travels of Two Mohammedans_.

[153] "With this immense treasure Mamood returned to Ghizni and in the
year 400 prepared a magnificent festival, where he displayed to the people
his wealth in golden thrones and in other ornaments, in a great plain
without the city of Ghizni." _Ferishta_.

[154] "Mahmood of Gazna, or Chizni, who conquered India in the beginning
of the 11th century."--See his History in _Dow_ and Sir _J. Malcolm_.

[155] "It is reported that the hunting equipage of the Sultan Mahmood was
so magnificent, that he kept 400 greyhounds and bloodhounds each of which
wore a collar set with jewels and a covering edged with gold and
pearls."--_Universal History_, vol. iii.

[156] "The Mountains of the Moon, or the _Montes Lunae_ of antiquity, at
the foot of which the Nile is supposed to arise."--_Bruce_.

[157] "The Nile, which the Abyssinians know by the names of Abey and Alawy
or the Giant."--_Asiat. Research_. vol. i. p. 387.

[158] See Perry's View of the Levant for an account of the sepulchres in
Upper Thebes, and the numberless grots, covered all over with
hieroglyphics in the mountains of Upper Egypt.

[159] "The orchards of Rosetta are filled with turtle-doves.--_Sonnini_.

[160] Savary mentions the pelicans upon Lake Moeris.

[161] "The superb date-tree, whose head languidly reclines, like that of a
handsome woman overcome with sleep."--_Dafard el Hadad_.

[162] "That beautiful bird, with plumage of the finest shining blue, with
purple beak and legs, the natural and living ornament of the temples and
palaces of the Greeks and Romans, which, from the stateliness of its part,
as well as the brilliancy of its colors, has obtained the title of
Sultana,"--_Sonnini_.

[163] Jackson, speaking of the plague that occurred in West Barbary, when
he was there, says, "The birds of the air fled away from the abodes of
men. The hyaenas, on the contrary, visited the cemeteries," etc.

[164] "Gondar was full of hyaenas from the time it turned dark, till the
dawn of day, seeking the different pieces of slaughtered carcasses, which
this cruel and unclean people expose in the streets without burial, and
who firmly believe that these animals are Falashta from the neighboring
mountains, transformed by magic, and come down to eat human flesh in the
dark in safety."--_Bruce_.

[165] "In the East, they suppose the Phoenix to have fifty orifices in his
bill, which are continued to his tail; and that, after living one thousand
years, he builds himself a funeral pile, sings a melodious air of
different harmonies through his fifty organ pipes, flaps his wings with a
velocity which sets fire to the wood and consumes himself."--_Richardson_.

[166] "On the shores of a quadrangular lake stand a thousand goblets, made
of stars, out of which souls predestined to enjoy felicity drink the
crystal wave."--From _Chateaubriand's_ Description of the Mahometan
Paradise, in his _"Beauties of Christianity_."

[167] Richardson thinks that Syria had its name from Suri, a beautiful and
delicate species of rose, for which that country has always been
famous;--hence, Suristan, the Land of Roses.

[168] "The number of lizards I saw one day in the great court of the
Temple of the Sun at Balbec amounted to many thousands; the ground, the
walls, and stones of the ruined buildings, were covered with
them."--_Bruce_.

[169] "The Syrinx or Pan's pipes is still a pastoral instrument in
Syria."--_Russel_.

[170] "Wild bees, frequent in Palestine, in hollow trunks or branches of
trees, and the clefts of rocks. Thus it is said (Psalm lxxxi.), _'honey
out of the stony rock.'_"--_Burder's_ Oriental Customs.

[171] "The River Jordan is on both sides beset with little, thick, and
pleasant woods, among which thousands of nightingales warble all
together."_--Thevenot_.

[172] The Temple of the Sun at Balbec.

[173] "You behold there a considerable number of a remarkable species of
beautiful insects, the elegance of whose appearance and their attire
procured for them the name of Damsels.--_Sonnini_.

[174] "Such Turks as at the common hours of prayer are on the road, or so
employed as not to find convenience to attend the mosques, are still
obliged to execute that duty; nor are they ever known to fail, whatever
business they are then about, but pray immediately when the hour alarms
them, whatever they are about, in that very place they chance to stand on;
insomuch that when a janissary, whom you have to guard you up and down the
city, hears the notice which is given him from the steeples, he will turn
about, stand still, and beckon with his hand, to tell his charge he must
have patience for awhile; when, taking out his handkerchief, he spreads it
on the ground, sits cross-legged thereupon, and says his prayers, though
in the open market, which, having ended he leaps briskly up, salutes the
person whom he undertook to convey, and renews his journey with the mild
expression of _Ghell yelinnum ghell_, or Come, dear, follow me."--_Aaron
Hill's_ Travels.

[175] The Nucta, Or Miraculous Drop, which falls in Egypt precisely on St.
John's day in June and is supposed to have the effect of stopping the
plague.

[176] The Country of Delight--the name of a province in the kingdom of
Jinnistan, or Fairy Land, the capital of which is called the City of
Jewels. Amberabad is another of the cities of Jinnistan.

[177] The tree Tooba, that stands in Paradise, in the palace of Mahomet.
See _Sale's Prelim. Disc_.--Tooba, says _D'Herbelot_, signifies beatitude,
or eternal happiness.

[178] Mahomet is described, in the 53d chapter of the Koran, as having
seen the Angel Gabriel "by the lote-tree, beyond which there is no
passing: near it is the Garden of Eternal Abode." This tree, say the
commentators, stands in the seventh Heaven, on the right hand of the
Throne of God.

[179] "It is said that the rivers or streams of Basra were reckoned in the
time of Peisl ben Abi Bordeh, and amounted to the number of one hundred
and twenty thousand streams."--_Ebn Haukal_.

[180] The name of the javelin with which the Easterns exercise. See
_Castellan, "Moeurs des Ottomans," tom_. iii. p. 161.

[181] "This account excited a desire of visiting the Banyan Hospital, as I
had heard much of their benevolence to all kinds of animals that were
either sick, lame, or infirm, through age or accident. On my arrival,
there were presented to my view many horses, cows, and oxen, in one
apartment; in another, dogs, sheep, goats, and monkeys, with clean straw
for them to repose on. Above stairs were depositories for seeds of many
sorts, and flat, broad dishes for water, for the use of birds and
insects."--_Parson_'s Travels. It is said that all animals know the
Banyans, that the most timid approach them, and that birds will fly nearer
to them than to other people.--See _Grandpre_.

[182] "A very fragrant grass from the banks of the Ganges, near Heridwar,
which in some places covers whole acres, and diffuses, when crushed, a
strong odor."--_Sir W. Jones_ on the Spikenard of the Ancients.

[183] "Near this is a curious hill, called Koh Talism, the Mountain of the
Talisman, because, according to the traditions of the country, no person
ever succeeded in gaining its summit."--_Kinneir_.

[184] "The Arabians believe that the ostriches hatch their young by only
looking at them."

[185] Oriental Tales.

[186] Ferishta. "Or rather," says _Scott_, upon the passage of Ferishta,
from which this is taken, "small coins, stamped with the figure of a
flower. They are still used in India to distribute in charity and on
occasion thrown by the purse-bearers of the great among the populace."

[187] The fine road made by the Emperor Jehan-Guire from Agra to Lahore,
planted with trees on each side. This road is 250 leagues in length. It
has "little pyramids or turrets," says _Bernier_, "erected every half
league, to mark the ways, and frequent wells to afford drink to
passengers, and to water the young trees."

[188] The Baya, or Indian Grosbeak.--_Sir W. Jones_.

[189] "Here is a large pagoda by a tank, on the water of which float
multitudes of the beautiful red lotus: the flower is larger than that of
the white water-lily, and is the most lovely of the nymphaeas I have
seen."--_Mrs. Graham's_ Journal of a Residence in India.

[190] "Cashmere (says its historian) had its own princes 4000 years before
its conquest by Akbar in 1585. Akbar would have found some difficulty to
reduce this paradise of the Indies, situated as it is within such a
fortress of mountains, but its monarch, Yusef-Khan, was basely betrayed by
his Omrahs."--_Pennant_.

[191] Voltaire tells us that in his tragedy, "_Les Guebres_," he was
generally supposed to have alluded to the Jansenists. I should not be
surprised if this story of the Fire worshippers were found capable of a
similar doubleness of application.

[192] The Persian Gulf, sometimes so called, which separates the shores of
Persia and Arabia.

[193] The present Gombaroon, a town on the Persian side of the Gulf.

[194] A Moorish instrument of music.

[195] "At Gombaroon and other places in Persia, they have towers for the
purpose of catching the wind and cooling the houses.--_Le Bruyn_.

[196] "Iran is the true general name for the empire of Persia.--_Asiat.
Res. Disc. 5_.

[197] "On the blades of their scimitars some verse from the Koran is
usually inscribed.--_Russel_.

[198] There is a kind of Rhododendros about Trebizond, whose flowers the
bee feeds upon, and the honey thence drives people mad;"--_Tournefort_.

[199] Their kings wear plumes of black herons' feathers, upon the right
side, as a badge of sovereignty "--_Hanway_.

[200] "The Fountain of Youth, by a Mahometan tradition, is situated in
some dark region of the East."--_Richardson_.

[201] Arabia Felix.

[202] "In the midst of the garden is the chiosk, that is, a large room,
commonly beautified with a fine fountain in the midst of it. It is raised
nine or ten steps, and enclosed with gilded lattices, round which vines,
jessamines, and honeysuckles, make a sort of green wall; large trees are
planted round this place, which is the scene of their greatest
pleasures."--_Lady M. W. Montagu_.

[203] The women of the East are never without their looking-glasses. "In
Barbary," says _Shaw_, "they are so fond of their looking-glasses, which
they hang upon their breasts, that they will not lay them aside, even when
after the drudgery of the day they are obliged to go two or three miles
with a pitcher or a goat's skin to fetch water."--_Travels_.

[204] "They say that if a snake or serpent fix his eyes on the lustre of
those stones (emeralds), he immediately becomes blind."--_Ahmed ben
Abdalaziz_, Treatise on Jewels.

[205] "At Gombaroon and the Isle of Ormus, it is sometimes so hot, that
the people are obliged to lie all day in the water."--_Marco Polo_.

[206] This mountain is generally supposed to be inaccessible. _Struy_
says, "I can well assure the reader that their opinion is not true, who
suppose this mount to be inaccessible." He adds, that "the lower part of
the mountain is cloudy, misty, and dark, the middlemost part very cold,
and like clouds of snow, but the upper regions perfectly calm."--It was on
this mountain that the Ark was supposed to have rested after the Deluge,
and part of it, they say, exists there still, which Struy thus gravely
accounts for:--"Whereas none can remember that the air on the top of the
hill did ever change or was subject either to wind or rain, which is
presumed to be the reason that the Ark has endured so long without being
rotten."--See _Carreri's_ Travels, where the Doctor laughs at this whole
account of Mount Ararat.

[207] In one of the books of the Shah Nameh, when Zal (a celebrated hero
of Persia, remarkable for his white hair,) comes to the terrace of his
mistress Rodahver at night, she lets down her long tresses to assist him
in his ascent;--he, however, manages it in a less romantic way by fixing
his crook in a projecting beam.--See _Champion's_ Ferdosi.

[208] "On the lofty hills of Arabia Petraea, are rock-goats."--_Niebuhr_.

[209] "They (the Ghebers) lay so much stress on their cushee or girdle, as
not to dare to be an instant without it."--_Grose's_ Voyage.

[210] "They suppose the Throne of the Almighty is seated in the sun, and
hence their worship of that luminary."--_Hanway_.

[211] The Mameluks that were in the other boat, when it was dark used to
shoot up a sort of fiery arrows into the air which in some measure
resembled lightning or falling stars."--_Baumgarten_.

[212] "Within the enclosure which surrounds his monument (at Gualior) is a
small tomb to the memory of Tan-Sein, a musician of incomparable skill,
who flourished at the court of Akbar. The tomb is overshadowed by a tree,
concerning which a superstitious notion prevails, that the chewing of its
leaves will give an extraordinary melody to the voice."--_Narrative of a
Journey from Agra to Ouzein, by W. Hunter,  Esq_.

[213] "It is usual to place a small white triangular flag, fixed to a
bamboo staff of ten or twelve feet long, at the place where a tiger has
destroyed a man. It is common for the passengers also to throw each a
stone or brick near the spot, so that in the course of a little time a
pile equal to a good wagon-load is collected. The sight of these flags and
piles of stones imparts a certain melancholy, not perhaps altogether void
of apprehension."--_Oriental Field Sports_, vol. ii.

[214] "The Ficus Indica is called the Pagod Tree of Councils; the first,
from the idols placed under its shade; the second, because meetings were
held under its cool branches. In some places it is believed to be the
haunt of spectres, as the ancient spreading oaks of Wales have been of
fairies; in others are erected beneath the shade pillars of stone, or
posts, elegantly carved, and ornamented with the most beautiful porcelain
to supply the use of mirrors."--_Pennant_.

[215] The Persian Gulf.--"To dive for pearls in the Green Sea, or Persian
Gulf."--_Sir W. Jones_.

[216] Or Selemeh, the genuine name of the headland at the entrance of the
Gulf, commonly called Cape Musseldom. "The Indians when they pass the
promontory throw cocoa-nuts, fruits, or flowers into the sea to secure a
propitious voyage."--_Morier_.

[217] "The nightingale sings from the pomegranate-groves in the daytime
and from the loftiest trees at night."--_Russel's_ "Aleppo."

[218] In speaking of the climate of Shiraz, Francklin says, "The dew is of
such a pure nature, that if the brightest scimitar should be exposed to it
all night, it would not receive the least rust."

[219] The place where the Persians were finally defeated by the Arabs, and
their ancient monarchy destroyed.

[220] The Talpot or Talipot tree. "This beautiful palm-tree, which grows
in the heart of the forests, may be classed among the loftiest trees, and
becomes still higher when on the point of bursting forth from its leafy
summit. The sheath which then envelopes the flower is very large, and,
when it bursts, makes an explosion like the report of a cannon."--
_Thunberg_.

[221] "When the bright scimitars make the eyes of our heroes wink."--_The
Moallakat, Poem of Amru_.

[222] Tahmuras, and other ancient Kings of Persia; whose adventures in
Fairy-land among the Peris and Divs may be found in Richardson's curious
Dissertation. The griffin Simoorgh, they say, took some feathers from her
breast for Tahmuras, with which he adorned his helmet, and transmitted
them afterwards to his descendants.

[223] This rivulet, says Dandini, is called the Holy River from the
"cedar-saints" among which it rises.

[224] This mountain is my own creation, as the "stupendous chain," of
which I suppose it a link, does not extend quite so far as the shores of
the Persian Gulf.

[225] These birds sleep in the air. They are most common about the Cape of
Good Hope.

[226] "There is an extraordinary hill in this neighborhood, called Kohe
Gubr, or the Guebre's mountain. It rises in the form of a lofty cupola,
and on the summit of it, they say, are the remains of an Atush Kudu or
Fire Temple. It is superstitiously held to be the residence or Deeves or
Sprites, and many marvellous stories are recounted of the injury and
witchcraft suffered by those who essayed in former days to ascend or
explore it."--_Pottinger's_ "Beloochistan."

[227] The Ghebers generally built their temples over subterraneous fires.

[228] "At the city of Yezd, in Persia, which is distinguished by the
appellation of the Darub Abadut, or Seat of Religion, the Guebres are
permitted to have an Atush Kudu or Fire Temple (which, they assert, has
had the sacred fire in it since the days of Zoroaster) in their own
compartment of the city; but for this indulgence they are indebted to the
avarice, not the tolerance of the Persian government, which taxes them at
twenty-five rupees each man."--_Pottinger's_ "Beloochistan."

[229] Ancient heroes of Persia. "Among the Guebres there are some who
boast their descent from Rustam."--_Stephen's Persia_.

[230] See Russel's account of the panther's attacking travellers in the
night on the sea-shore about the roots of Lebanon.

[231] "Among other ceremonies the Magi used to place upon the tops of high
towers various kinds of rich viands, upon which it was supposed the Peris
and the spirits of their departed heroes regaled themselves."--
_Richardson_.

[232] In the ceremonies of the Ghebers round their Fire, as described by
Lord, "the Daroo," he says, "giveth them water to drink, and a pomegranate
leaf to chew in the mouth, to cleanse them from inward uncleanness."

[233] "Early in the morning, they (the Parsees or Ghebers at Oulam) go in
crowds to pay their devotions to the Sun, to whom upon all the altars
there are spheres consecrated, made by magic, resembling the circles of
the sun, and when the sun rises, these orbs seem to be inflamed, and to
turn round with a great noise. They have every one a censer in their
hands, and offer incense to the sun.'--_Rabbi Benjamin_.

[234] A vivid verdure succeeds the autumnal rains, and the ploughed fields
are covered with the Persian lily, of a resplendent yellow color."--
_Russel's_ "Aleppo."

[235] It is observed, with respect to the Sea of Herkend, that when it is
tossed by tempestuous winds it sparkles like fire."--_Travels of Two
Mohammedans_.

[236] A kind of trumpet;--it "was that used by Tamerlane, the sound of
which is described as uncommonly dreadful, and so loud as to be heard at a
distance of several miles."--_Richardson_.

[237] "Mohammed had two helmets, an interior and exterior one; the latter
of which, called Al Mawashah, the fillet, wreath, or wreathed garland, he
wore at the battle of Ohod."--_Universal History_.

[238] "They say that there are apple-trees upon the sides of this sea,
which bear very lovely fruit, but within are all full of ashes."--
_Thevenot_.

[239] "The Suhrab or Water of the Desert is said to be caused by the
rarefaction of the atmosphere from extreme heat; and, which augments the
delusion, it is most frequent in hollows, where water might be expected to
lodge. I have seen bushes and trees reflected in it, with as much accuracy
is though it had been the face of a clear and still lake."--_Pottinger_.

[240] "A wind which prevails in February, called Bidmusk, from a small and
odoriferous flower of that name."--"The wind which blows these flowers
commonly lasts till the end of the month."--_Le Bruyn_.

[241] "The Biajus are of two races: the one is settled on Borneo, and are
a rude but warlike and industrious nation, who reckon themselves the
original possessors of the island of Borneo. The other is a species of
sea-gypsies or itinerant fishermen, who live in small covered boats, and
enjoy a perpetual summer on the eastern ocean, shifting to leeward from
island to island, with the variations of the monsoon.

[242] "The sweet-scented violet is one of the plants most esteemed,
particularly for its great use in Sorbet, which they make of violet
sugar."--_Hassequist_.

[243] "Last of all she took a guitar, and sang a pathetic air in the
measure called Nava, which is always used to express the lamentations of
absent lovers."--_Persian Tales_.

[244] "The Easterns used to set out on their longer voyages with
music."--_Harmer_.

[245] "The Gate of Tears, the straits or passage into the Red Sea,
commonly called Babelmandel. It received this name from the old Arabians,
on account of the danger of the navigation and the number of shipwrecks by
which it was distinguished; which induced them to consider as dead, and to
wear mourning for all who had the boldness to hazard the passage through
it into the Ethiopic ocean."--_Richardson_.

[246] "I have been told that whensoever an animal falls down dead, one or
more vultures, unseen before, instantly appears."--_Pennant_.

[247] "They fasten some writing to the wings of a Bagdat, or Babylonian
pigeon."--_Travels of certain Englishmen_.

[248] "The Empress of Jehan-Guire used to divert herself with feeding tame
fish in her canals, some of which were many years afterwards known by
fillets of gold, which she caused to be put round them."--_Harris_.

[249] The meteors that Pliny calls "_faces_."

[250] "The brilliant Canopus, unseen in European climates."--_Brown_.

[251] A precious stone of the Indies, called by the ancients, Ceraunium,
because it was supposed to be found in places where thunder had fallen.
Tertullian says it has a glittering appearance, as if there had fire in
it; and the author of the Dissertation of Harris's Voyages, supposes it to
be the opal.

[252] "The Guebres are known by a dark yellow color, which the men affect
in their clothes."--_Thevenot_.

[253] "The Kolah, or cap, worn by the Persians, is made of the skin of the
sheep of Tartary."--_Waring_.

[254] A frequent image among the oriental poets. "The nightingales warbled
their enchanting notes, and rent the thin veils of the rose-bud, and the
rose."--_Jami_.

[255] "Blossoms of the sorrowful Nyctanthes give a durable color to
silk."--_Remarks on the Husbandry of Bengal_, p. 200. Nilica is one of the
Indian names of this flower.--_Sir W. Jones_. The Persians call it
Gul.--Carreri.

[256] "In parts of Kerman, whatever dates are shaken from the trees by the
wind they do not touch, but leave them for those who have not any, or for
travellers.--Ebn Haukal.

[257] The two terrible angels, Monkir and Nakir, who are called "the
Searchers of the Grave" in the "Creed of the orthodox Mahometans" given by
Ockley, vol. ii.

[258] "The Arabians call the mandrake 'the devil's candle,' on account of
its shining appearance in the night."--_Richardson_.

[259] For an account of Ishmonie, the petrified city in Upper Egypt, where
it is said there are many statues of men, women, etc., to be seen to this
day, see _Perry's "Views of the Levant_."

[260] Jesus.

[261] The Ghebers say that when Abraham, their great Prophet, was thrown
into the fire by order of Nimrod, the flame turned instantly into "a bed
of roses, where the child sweetly reposed."--_Tavernier_.

[262] "The shell called Siiankos, common to India, Africa, and the
Mediterranean, and still used in many parts as a trumpet for blowing
alarms or giving signals: it sends forth a deep and hollow sound."--
_Pennant_.

[263] "The finest ornament for the horses is made of six large flying
tassels of long white hair, taken out of the tails of wild oxen, that are
to be found in some places of the Indies."--_Thevenot_.

[264] "The angel Israfll, who has the most melodious voice of all God's
creatures."--_Sale_.

[265] "In this thicket upon the banks of the Jordan several sorts of wild
beasts are wont to harbor themselves, whose being washed out of the covert
by the overflowings of the river, gave occasion to that allusion of
Jeremiah, _he shall come up like a lion from the smelling of
Jordan_."--_Maundrell's "Aleppo."_

[266] "This wind (the Samoor) so softens the strings of lutes, that they
can never be tuned while it lasts."--_Stephen's Persia_.

[267] "One of the greatest curiosities found in the Persian Gulf is a fish
which the English call Star-fish. It is circular, and at night very
luminous, resembling the full moon surrounded by rays."--_Mirza Abu
Taleb_.

[268] Some naturalists have imagined that amber is a concretion of the
tears of birds.--See _Trevoux, Chambers_.

[269] "The bay Kieselarke, which is otherwise called the Golden Bay, the
sand whereof shines as fire."--_Struy_.

[270] "The application of whips or rods."--_Dubois_.

[271] Kempfer mentions such an officer among the attendants of the King of
Persia, and calls him "_formae corporis estimator_." His business was, at
stated periods, to measure the ladies of the Haram by a sort of
regulation-girdle whose limits it was not thought graceful to exceed. If
any of them outgrew this standard of shape, they were reduced by
abstinence till they came within proper bounds.

[272] "Akbar on his way ordered a fort to be built upon the Nilab, which
he called Attock, which means in the Indian language Forbidden; for, by
the superstition of the Hindoos, it was held unlawful to cross that
river."--_Dow's_ Hindostan.

[273] "The inhabitants of this country (Zinge) are never afflicted with
sadness or melancholy; on this subject the Sheikh _Abu-al-Kheir-Azhari_
has the following distich:--

"'Who is the man without care or sorrow, (tell) that I may rub my hand to
him.

"'(Behold) the Zingians, without care and sorrow, frolicsome with
tipsiness and mirth.'"

[274] The star Soheil, or Canopus.

[275] "The lizard Stellio. The Arabs call it Hardun. The Turks kill it,
for they imagine that by declining the head it mimics them when they say
their prayers."--_Hasselquist_.

[276] "As you enter at that Bazar, without the gate of Damascus, you see
the Green Mosque, so called because it hath a steeple faced with green
glazed bricks, which render it very resplendent: It is covered at top with
a pavilion of the same stuff. The Turks say this mosque was made in that
place, because Mahomet being come so far, would not enter the town, saying
it was too delicious."--_Thevenot_.

[277] Nourmahal signifies Light of the Haram. She was afterwards called
Nourjehan, or the Light of the World.

[278] "The rose of Kashmire for its brilliancy and delicacy of odor has
long been proverbial in the East."--Foster.

[279] "Tied round her waist the zone of bells, that sounded with ravishing
melody."--_Song of Jayadeva_.

[280] "The little isles in the Lake of Cachemire are set with arbors and
large-leaved aspen-trees, slender and tall."--_Bernier_.

[281] "The Tuckt Suliman, the name bestowed by the Mahommetans on this
hill, forms one side of a grand portal to the Lake."--_Forster_.

[282] "The Feast of Roses continues the whole time of their remaining in
bloom."--See _Pietro de la Valle_.

[283] "Gul sad berk, the Rose of a hundred leaves. I believe a particular
species."--_Ouseley_.

[284] A place mentioned in the Toozek Jehangeery, or Memoirs of Jehan-
Guire, where there is an account of the beds of saffron-flowers about
Cashmere.

[285] "It is the custom among the women to employ the Maazeen to chant
from the gallery of the nearest minaret, which on that occasion is
illuminated, and the women assembled at the house respond at intervals
with a ziraleet or joyous chorus."--_Russel_.

[286] "The swing is a favorite pastime in the East, as promoting a
circulation of air, extremely refreshing in those sultry climates."--
_Richardson_.

[287] At the keeping of the Feast of Roses we beheld an infinite number of
tents pitched, with such a crowd of men, women, boys, and girls, with
music, dances, etc."--_Herbert_.

[288] "An old commentator of the Chou-King says, the ancients having
remarked that a current of water made some of the stones near its banks
send forth a sound, they detached some of them, and being charmed with the
delightful sound they emitted, constructed King or musical instruments of
them,"--_Grosier_.

[289] In the wars of the Divs with the Peris, whenever the former took the
latter prisoners, "they shut them up in iron cages, and hung them on the
highest trees. Here they were visited by their companions, who brought
them the choicest odors."--_Richardson_.

[290] In the Malay language the same word signifies women and flowers.

[291] The capital of Shadukiam.

[292] "Among the birds of Tonquin is a species of goldfinch, which sings
so melodiously that it is called the Celestial Bird. Its wings, when it is
perched, appear variegated with beautiful colors, but when it flies they
lose all their splendor."--_Grosier_.

[293] "As these birds on the Bosphorus are never known to rest, they are
called by the French '_les ames damnees_.'"--_Dalloway_.

[294] "You may place a hundred handfuls of fragrant herbs and flowers
before the nightingale, yet he wishes not in his constant heart for more
than the sweet breath of his beloved rose."--_Jami_.

[295] "He is said to have found the great _Mantra_, spell or talisman,
through which he ruled over the elements and spirits of all
denominations."--_Wilford_.

[296] "The gold jewels of Jinnie, which are called by the Arabs El Herrez,
from the supposed charm they contain."--_Jackson_.

[297] "A demon, supposed to haunt woods, etc., in a human shape."--
_Richardson_.

[298] The name of Jehan-Guire before his accession to the throne.

[299] "Hemasagara, or the Sea of Gold, with flowers of the brightest gold
color."--_Sir W. Jones_.

[300] "This tree (the Nagacesara) is one of the most delightful on earth,
and the delicious odor of its blossoms justly gives them a place in the
quiver of Camadeva, or the God of Love."--_Id_.

[301] "The Malayans style the tuberose (_polianthes tuberosa_) Sandal
Malam, or the Mistress of the Night."--_Pennant_.

[302] The people of the Batta country in Sumatra (of which Zamara is one
of the ancient names), "when not engaged in war, lead an idle, inactive
life, passing the day in playing on a kind of flute, crowned with garlands
of flowers, among which the globe-amaranthus, a native of the country,
mostly prevails,"--_Marsden_.

[303] "The largest and richest sort (of the Jambu or rose-apple) is called
Amrita, or immortal, and the mythologists of Tibet apply the same word to
a celestial tree, bearing ambrosial fruit."--_Sir W. Jones_.

[304] Sweet Basil, called Rayhan in Persia, and generally found in
churchyards.

[305] "In the Great Desert are found many stalks of lavender and
rosemary."--_Asiat. Res_.

[306] "The almond-tree, with white flowers, blossoms on the bare
branches."--_Hasselquist_.

[307] An herb on Mount Libanus, which is said to communicate a yellow
golden hue to the teeth of the goat and other animals that graze upon it.

[308] The myrrh country.

[309] "This idea (of deities living in shells) was not unknown to the
Greeks, who represent the young Nerites, one of the Cupids, as living in
shells on the shores of the Red Sea."--_Wilford_.

[310] "A fabulous fountain, where instruments are said to be constantly
playing."--_Richardson_.

[311] "The Pompadour pigeon is the species, which, by carrying the fruit
of the cinnamon to different places, is a great disseminator of this
valuable tree."--See _Brown's_ Illustr. Tab. 19.

[312] "The Persians have two mornings, the Soobhi Kazim and the Soobhi
Sadig, the false and the real daybreak. They account for this phenomenon
in a most whimsical manner. They say that as the sun rises from behind the
Kohi Qaf (Mount Caucasus), it passes a hole perforated through that
mountain, and that darting its rays through it, it is the cause of the
Soobhi Kazim, or this temporary appearance of daybreak. As it ascends, the
earth is again veiled in darkness, until the sun rises above the mountain,
and brings with it the Soobhi Sadig, or real morning."--_Scott Waring_.

[313] "In the centre of the plain, as it approaches the Lake, one of the
Delhi Emperors, I believe Shan Jehan, constructed a spacious garden called
the Shalimar, which is abundantly stored with fruit-trees and flowering
shrubs. Some of the rivulets which intersect the plain are led into a
canal at the back of the garden, and flowing through its centre, or
occasionally thrown into a variety of water-works, compose the chief
beauty of the Shalimar."--_Forster_.

[314] "The waters of Cachemir are the more renowned from its being
supposed that the Cachemirians are indebted for their beauty to
them."--_Ali Yezdi_.

[315] "From him I received the following little Gazzel, or Love Song, the
notes of which he committed to paper from the voice of one of those
singing girls of Cashmere, who wander from that delightful valley over the
various parts of India."--_Persian Miscellanies_.

[316] "The roses of the Jinan Nile, or Garden of the Nile (attached to the
Emperor of Morocco's palace) are unequalled, and mattresses are made of
their leaves for the men of rank to recline upon."--_Jackson_.

[317] "On the side of a mountain near Paphos there is a cavern which
produces the most beautiful rock-crystal. On account of its brilliancy it
has been called the Paphian diamond."--_Mariti_.

[318] "These is a part of Candahar, called Peria, or Fairy Land."--
_Thevenot_. In some of those countries to the north of India vegetable
gold is supposed to be produced.

[319] "These are the butterflies which are called in the Chinese language
Flying Leaves. Some of them have such shining colors, and are so
variegated, that they may be called flying flowers; and indeed they are
always produced in the finest flower-gardens."--_Dunn_.

[320] "The Arabian women wear black masks with little clasps prettily
ordered."--_Carreri_. Niebuhr mentions their showing but one eye in
conversation.

[321] "The golden grapes of Casbin."--_Description of Persia_.

[322] "The fruits exported from Caubul are apples, pears, pomegranates,"
etc.--_Elphinstone_.

[323] "We sat down under a tree, listened to the birds, and talked with
the son of our Mehmaundar about our country and Caubul, of which he gave
an enchanting account; that city and its 100,000 gardens," etc.--_Ib_.

[324] "The mangusteen, the most delicate fruit in the world; the pride of
the Malay islands."--_Marsden_.

[325] "A delicious kind of apricot, called by the Persians tokmekshems,
signifying sun's seed."--_Description of Persia_.

[326] "Sweetmeats, in a crystal cup, consisting of rose-leaves in
conserve, with Iemon of Visna cherry, orange flowers," etc.--_Russel_.

[327] "Antelopes cropping the fresh berries of Erac."--The _Moallakat_,
Poem of Tarafa.

[328] "Mauri-ga-Sima, an island near Formosa, supposed to have been sunk
in the sea for the crimes of its inhabitants. The vessels which the
fishermen and divers bring up from it are sold at an immense price in
China and Japan."--See _Kempfer_.

[329] Persian Tales.

[330] The white wine of Kishma.

[331] "The King of Zeilan is said to have the very finest ruby that was
ever seen. Kublai-Khan sent and offered the value of a city for It, but
the king answered he would not give it for the treasure of the
world."--_Marco Polo_.

[332] The Indians feign that Cupid was first seen floating down the Ganges
on the Nymphaea Nelumbo.--See _Pennant_.

[333] Teflis is celebrated for its natural warm baths.--See _Ebn Haukal_.

[334] "The Indian Syrinda, or guitar."--_Symez_.

[335] "Around the exterior of the Dewan Khafs (a building of Shah Allum's)
in the cornice are the following lines in letters of gold upon a ground of
white marble--'_If there be a paradise upon earth, it is this, it is
this.'"--Franklin_.

[336] "Delightful are the flowers of the Amra trees on the mountain tops
while the murmuring bees pursue their voluptuous toil."--_Song of
Jayadera_.

[337] "The Nison or drops of spring rain, which they believe to produce
pearls if they fall into shells."--_Richardson_.

[338] For an account of the share which wine had in the fall of the
angels, see _Mariti_.

[339] The Angel of Music.

[340] The Hudhud, or Lapwing, is supposed to have the power of discovering
water under ground.

[341] "The Chinese had formerly the art of painting on the sides of
porcelain vessels fish and other animals, which were only perceptible when
the vessel was full of some liquor, They call this species Kia-tsin, that
is, _azure is put in press_, on account of the manner in which the azure
is laid on."--"They are every now and then trying to discover the art of
this magical painting, but to no purpose."--_Dunn_.

[342] An eminent carver of idols, said in the Koran to be father to
Abraham. "I have such a lovely idol as is not to be met with in the house
of Azor."--_Hafiz_.

[343] Kachmire be Nazeer.--_Forster_.

[344] Jehan-Guire mentions "a fountain in Cashmere called Tirnagh, which
signifies a snake; probably because some large snake had formerly been
seen there."--"During the lifetime of my father, I went twice to this
fountain, which is about twenty coss from the city of Cashmere. The
vestiges of places of worship and sanctity are to be traced without number
amongst the ruins and the caves which are interspersed in its
neighborhood."--_Toozek Jehangeery_.--v. _Asiat. Misc_. vol. ii.

[345] "On a standing roof of wood is laid a covering of fine earth, which
shelters the building from the great quantity of snow that falls in the
winter season. This fence communicates an equal warmth in winter, as a
refreshing coolness in the summer season, when the tops of the houses,
which are planted with a variety of flowers, exhibit at a distance the
spacious view of a beautifully checkered parterre."--_Forster_.

[346] "Two hundred slaves there are, who have no other office than to hunt
the woods and marshes for triple-colored tortoises for the King's Vivary.
Of the shells of these also lanterns are made."--_Vincent le Blanc's_
Travels.

[347] This wind, which is to blow from Syria Damascena, is, according to
the Mahometans, one of the signs of the Last Day's approach.

Another of the signs is, "Great distress in the world, so that a man when
he passes by another's grave shall say, Would to God I were in his
place!"--_Sale's_ Preliminary Discourse.

[348] "On Mahommed Shaw's return to Koolburga (the capital of Dekkan), he
made a great festival, and mounted this throne with much pomp and
magnificence, calling it Firozeh or Cerulean. I have heard some old
persons, who saw the throne Firozeh in the reign of Sultan Mamood
Bhamenee, describe it. They say that it was in length nine feet, and three
in breadth; made of ebony covered with plates of pure gold, and set with
precious stones of immense value. Every prince of the house of Bhamenee,
who possessed this throne, made a point of adding to it some rich stones;
so that when in the reign of Sultan Mamood it was taken to pieces to
remove some of the jewels to be set in vases and cups, the jewellers
valued it at one corore of oons (nearly four millions sterling). I learned
also that it was called Firozeh from being partly enamelled of a sky-blue
color which was in time totally concealed by the number of jewels."--
_Ferishta_.








THE LOVES OF THE ANGELS.




PREFACE.


The Eastern story of the angels Harut and Marut and the Rabbinical
fictions of the loves of Uzziel and Shamchazai are the only sources to
which I need refer for the origin of the notion on which this Romance is
founded. In addition to the fitness of the subject for poetry, it struck
me also as capable of affording an allegorical medium through which might
be shadowed out (as I have endeavored to do in the following stories) the
fall of the Soul from its original purity[1]--the loss of light and
happiness which it suffers, in the pursuit of this world's perishable
pleasures--and the punishments both from conscience and Divine justice
with which impurity, pride, and presumptuous inquiry into the awful
secrets of Heaven are sure to be visited--The beautiful story of Cupid and
Psyche owes its chief charm to this sort of "veiled meaning," and it has
been my wish (however I may have failed in the attempt) to communicate to
the following pages the same _moral_ interest.

Among the doctrines or notions derived by Plato from the East, one of the
most natural and sublime is that which inculcates the pre-existence of the
soul and its gradual descent into this dark material world from that
region of spirit and light which it is supposed to have once inhabited and
to which after a long lapse of purification and trial it will return. This
belief under various symbolical forms may be traced through almost all the
Oriental theologies. The Chaldeans represent the Soul as originally
endowed with wings which fall away when it sinks from its native element
and must be re-produced before it can hope to return. Some disciples of
Zoroaster once inquired of him, "How the wings of the Soul might be made
to grow again?"

"By sprinkling them," he replied, "with the Waters of Life."

"But where are those Waters to be found?" they asked.

"In the Garden of God," replied Zoroaster.

The mythology of the Persians has allegorized the same doctrine, in the
history of those genii of light who strayed from their dwellings in the
stars and obscured their original nature by mixture with this material
sphere; while the Egyptians connecting it with the descent and ascent of
the sun in the zodiac considered Autumn as emblematic of the Soul's
decline toward darkness and the re-appearance of Spring as its return to
life and light.

Besides the chief spirits of the Mahometan heaven, such as Gabriel the
angel of Revelation, Israfil by whom the last trumpet is to be sounded,
and Azrael the angel of death, there were also a number of subaltern
intelligences of which tradition has preserved the names, appointed to
preside over the different stages of ascents into which the celestial
world was supposed to be divided.[2] Thus Kelail governs the fifth heaven;
while Sadiel, the presiding spirit of the third, is also employed in
steadying the motions of the earth which would be in a constant state of
agitation if this angel did not keep his foot planted upon its orb.

Among other miraculous interpositions in favor of Mahomet we find
commemorated in the pages of the Koran the appearance of five thousand
angels on his side at the battle of Bedr.

The ancient Persians supposed that Ormuzd appointed thirty angels to
preside successively over the days of the month and twelve greater ones to
assume the government of the months themselves; among whom Bahman (to whom
Ormuzd committed the custody of all animals, except man) was the greatest.
Mihr, the angel of the 7th month, was also the spirit that watched over
the affairs of friendship and love;--Chur had the care of the disk of the
sun;--Mah was agent for the concerns of the moon;--Isphandarmaz (whom
Cazvin calls the Spirit of the Earth) was the tutelar genius of good and
virtuous women, etc. For all this the reader may consult the 19th and 20th
chapters of Hyde, "_de Religione Veterum Persarum_," where the names and
attributes of these daily and monthly angels are with much minuteness and
erudition explained. It appears from the Zend-avesta that the Persians had
a certain office or prayer for every day of the month (addressed to the
particular angel who presided over it), which they called the Sirouze.

The Celestial Hierarchy of the Syrians, as described by Kircher, appears
to be the most regularly graduated of any of these systems. In the sphere
of the Moon they placed the angels, in that of Mercury the archangels,
Venus and the Sun contained the Principalities and the Powers;--and so on
to the summit of the planetary system, where, in the sphere of Saturn, the
Thrones had their station. Above this was the habitation of the Cherubim
in the sphere of the fixed stars; and still higher, in the region of those
stars which are so distant as to be imperceptible, the Seraphim, we are
told, the most perfect of all celestial creatures, dwelt.

The Sabeans also (as D'Herbelot tells us) had their classes of angels, to
whom they prayed as mediators, or intercessors; and the Arabians
worshipped _female_ angels, whom they called Benab Hasche, or, Daughters
of God.


[1] The account which Macrobius gives of the downward journey of the Soul,
through that gate of the zodiac which opens into the lower spheres, is a
curious specimen of the wild fancies that passed for philosophy in ancient
times.

[2] "We adorned the lower heaven with lights, and placed therein a guard
of angels."--_Koran, chap. xli_.






THE LOVES OF THE ANGELS


'Twas when the world was in its prime,
  When the fresh stars had just begun
Their race of glory and young Time
  Told his first birth-days by the sun;
When in the light of Nature's dawn
  Rejoicing, men and angels met
On the high hill and sunny lawn,--
Ere sorrow came or Sin had drawn
  'Twixt man and heaven her curtain yet!
When earth lay nearer to the skies
  Than in these days of crime and woe,
And mortals saw without surprise
In the mid-air angelic eyes
  Gazing upon this world below.

Alas! that Passion should profane
  Even then the morning of the earth!
That, sadder still, the fatal stain
  Should fall on hearts of heavenly birth--
And that from Woman's love should fall
So dark a stain, most sad of all!

One evening, in that primal hour,
  On a hill's side where hung the ray
Of sunset brightening rill and bower,
  Three noble youths conversing lay;
And, as they lookt from time to time
  To the far sky where Daylight furled
His radiant wing, their brows sublime
  Bespoke them of that distant world--
Spirits who once in brotherhood
Of faith and bliss near ALLA stood,
And o'er whose cheeks full oft had blown
The wind that breathes from ALLA'S throne,[1]
Creatures of light such as _still_ play,
  Like motes in sunshine, round the Lord,
And thro' their infinite array
Transmit each moment, night and day,
  The echo of His luminous word!

Of Heaven they spoke and, still more oft,
  Of the bright eyes that charmed them thence;
Till yielding gradual to the soft
  And balmy evening's influence--
The silent breathing of the flowers--
  The melting light that beamed above,
As on their first, fond, erring hours,--
  Each told the story of his love,
The history of that hour unblest,
When like a bird from its high nest
Won down by fascinating eyes,
For Woman's smile he lost the skies.

The First who spoke was one, with look
The least celestial of the three--
A Spirit of light mould that took
  The prints of earth most yieldingly;
Who even in heaven was not of those
  Nearest the Throne but held a place
Far off among those shining rows
  That circle out thro' endless space,
And o'er whose wings the light from Him
In Heaven's centre falls most dim.[2]

Still fair and glorious, he but shone
Among those youths the unheavenliest one--
A creature to whom light remained
From Eden still, but altered, stained,
And o'er whose brow not Love alone
  A blight had in his transit cast,
But other, earthlier joys had gone,
  And left their foot-prints as they past.
Sighing, as back thro' ages flown,
  Like a tomb-searcher, Memory ran,
Lifting each shroud that Time had thrown
  O'er buried hopes, he thus began:--


FIRST ANGEL'S STORY.


'Twas in a land that far away
  Into the golden orient lies,
Where Nature knows not night's delay,
But springs to meet her bridegroom, Day,
  Upon the threshold of the skies,
One morn, on earthly mission sent,[3]
  And mid-way choosing where to light,
I saw from the blue element--
  Oh beautiful, but fatal sight!--
One of earth's fairest womankind,
Half veiled from view, or rather shrined
In the clear crystal of a brook;
  Which while it hid no single gleam
Of her young beauties made them look
  More spirit-like, as they might seem
  Thro' the dim shadowing of a dream.
Pausing in wonder I lookt on,
  While playfully around her breaking
The waters that like diamonds shone
  She moved in light of her own making.
  At length as from that airy height
  I gently lowered my breathless flight,
The tremble of my wings all o'er
  (For thro' each plume I felt the thrill)
Startled her as she reached the shore
  Of that small lake--her mirror still--
Above whose brink she stood, like snow
When rosy with a sunset glow,
Never shall I forget those eyes!--
The shame, the innocent surprise
Of that bright face when in the air
Uplooking she beheld me there.
It seemed as if each thought and look
  And motion were that minute chained
Fast to the spot, such root she took,
And--like a sunflower by a brook,
  With face upturned--so still remained!

In pity to the wondering maid,
  Tho' loath from such a vision turning,
Downward I bent, beneath the shade
  Of my spread wings to hide the burning
Of glances, which--I well could feel--
  For me, for her, too warmly shone;
But ere I could again unseal
My restless eyes or even steal
  One sidelong look the maid was gone--
Hid from me in the forest leaves,
  Sudden as when in all her charms
Of full-blown light some cloud receives
  The Moon into his dusky arms.

'Tis not in words to tell the power,
The despotism that from that hour
Passion held o'er me. Day and night
  I sought around each neighboring spot;
And in the chase of this sweet light,
  My task and heaven and all forgot;--
All but the one, sole, haunting dream
Of her I saw in that bright stream.

Nor was it long ere by her side
  I found myself whole happy days
Listening to words whose music vied
  With our own Eden's seraph lays,
When seraph lays are warmed by love,
But wanting _that_ far, far above!--
And looking into eyes where, blue
And beautiful, like skies seen thro'
The sleeping wave, for me there shone
A heaven, more worshipt than my own.
Oh what, while I could hear and see
Such words and looks, was heaven to me?

Tho' gross the air on earth I drew,
'Twas blessed, while she breathed it too;
Tho' dark the flowers, tho' dim the sky,
Love lent them light while she was nigh.
Throughout creation I but knew
Two separate worlds--the _one_, that small,
  Beloved and consecrated spot
Where LEA was--the other, all
  The dull, wide waste where she was _not_!

But vain my suit, my madness vain;
Tho' gladly, from her eyes to gain
  One earthly look, one stray desire,
I would have torn the wings that hung
  Furled at my back and o'er the Fire
In GEHIM'S[4] pit their fragments flung;--
'Twas hopeless all--pure and unmoved
  She stood as lilies in the light
  Of the hot noon but look more white;--
And tho' she loved me, deeply loved,
'Twas not as man, as mortal--no,
Nothing of earth was in that glow--
She loved me but as one, of race
Angelic, from that radiant place
She saw so oft in dreams--that Heaven
  To which her prayers at morn were sent
And on whose light she gazed at even,
Wishing for wings that she might go
Out of this shadowy world below
  To that free, glorious element!

Well I remember by her side
Sitting at rosy even-tide,
When,--turning to the star whose head
Lookt out as from a bridal bed,
At that mute, blushing hour,--she said,
"Oh! that it were my doom to be
  "The Spirit of yon beauteous star,
"Dwelling up there in purity,
  "Alone as all such bright things are;--
"My sole employ to pray and shine,
  "To light my censer at the sun,
"And cast its fire towards the shrine
  "Of Him in heaven, the Eternal One!"

So innocent the maid, so free
  From mortal taint in soul and frame,
Whom 'twas my crime--my destiny--
  To love, ay, burn for, with a flame
  To which earth's wildest fires are tame.
Had you but seen her look when first
From my mad lips the avowal burst;
Not angered--no!--the feeling came
From depths beyond mere anger's flame--
It was a _sorrow_ calm as deep,
A mournfulness that could not weep,
So filled her heart was to the brink,
So fixt and frozen with grief to think
That angel natures--that even I
Whose love she clung to, as the tie
Between her spirit and the sky--
Should fall thus headlong from the height
Of all that heaven hath pure and bright!

That very night--my heart had grown
  Impatient of its inward burning;
The term, too, of my stay was flown,
And the bright Watchers near the throne.
Already, if a meteor shone
Between them and this nether zone,
  Thought 'twas their herald's wing returning.
Oft did the potent spell-word, given
  To Envoys hither from the skies,
To be pronounced when back to heaven
  It is their time or wish to rise,
Come to my lips that fatal day;
  And once too was so nearly spoken,
That my spread plumage in the ray
And breeze of heaven began to play;--
  When my heart failed--the spell was broken--
The word unfinisht died away,
And my checkt plumes ready to soar,
Fell slack and lifeless as before.
How could I leave a world which she,
Or lost or won, made all to me?
No matter where my wanderings were,
  So there she lookt, breathed, moved about--
Woe, ruin, death, more sweet with her,
  Than Paradise itself, without!

But to return--that very day
  A feast was held, where, full of mirth,
Came--crowding thick as flowers that play
In summer winds--the young and gay
  And beautiful of this bright earth.
And she was there and mid the young
  And beautiful stood first, alone;
Tho' on her gentle brow still hung
  The shadow I that morn had thrown--
The first that ever shame or woe
Had cast upon its vernal snow.
My heart was maddened;--in the flush
  Of the wild revel I gave way
To all that frantic mirth--that rush
  Of desperate gayety which they,
Who never felt how pain's excess
Can break out thus, think happiness!
Sad mimicry of mirth and life
Whose flashes come but from the strife
Of inward passions--like the light
Struck out by clashing swords in fight.

Then too that juice of earth, the bane
And blessing of man's heart and brain--
That draught of sorcery which brings
Phantoms of fair, forbidden things--
Whose drops like those of rainbows smile
  Upon the mists that circle man,
Brightening not only Earth the while,
  But grasping Heaven too in their span!--
Then first the fatal wine-cup rained
  Its dews of darkness thro' my lips,
Casting whate'er of light remained
  To my lost soul into eclipse;
And filling it with such wild dreams,
  Such fantasies and wrong desires,
As in the absence of heaven's beams
  Haunt us for ever--like wildfires
  That walk this earth when day retires.

Now hear the rest;--our banquet done,
  I sought her in the accustomed bower,
Where late we oft, when day was gone
And the world husht, had met alone,
  At the same silent, moonlight hour.
Her eyes as usual were upturned
To her loved star whose lustre burned
  Purer than ever on that night;
  While she in looking grew more bright
  As tho' she borrowed of its light.

There was a virtue in that scene,
  A spell of holiness around,
Which had my burning brain not been
  Thus maddened would have held me bound,
  As tho' I trod celestial ground.
Even as it was, with soul all flame
  And lips that burned in their own sighs,
I stood to gaze with awe and shame--
The memory of Eden came
  Full o'er me when I saw those eyes;
And tho' too well each glance of mine
  To the pale, shrinking maiden proved
How far, alas! from aught divine,
Aught worthy of so pure a shrine,
  Was the wild love with which I loved,
Yet must she, too, have seen--oh yes,
  'Tis soothing but to _think_ she saw
The deep, true, soul-felt tenderness,
  The homage of an Angel's awe
To her, a mortal, whom pure love
Then placed above him--far above--
And all that struggle to repress
A sinful spirit's mad excess,
Which workt within me at that hour,
  When with a voice where Passion shed
All the deep sadness of her power,
  Her melancholy power--I said,
"Then be it so; if back to heaven
  "I must unloved, unpitied fly.
"Without one blest memorial given
  "To soothe me in that lonely sky;
"One look like those the young and fond
  "Give when they're parting--which would be,
"Even in remembrance far beyond
  "All heaven hath left of bliss for me!

"Oh, but to see that head recline
  "A minute on this trembling arm,
"And those mild eyes look up to mine,
  "Without a dread, a thought of harm!
"To meet but once the thrilling touch
  "Of lips too purely fond to fear me--
"Or if that boon be all too much,
  "Even thus to bring their fragrance near me!
"Nay, shrink not so--a look--a word--
  "Give them but kindly and I fly;
"Already, see, my plumes have stirred
  "And tremble for their home on high.
"Thus be our parting--cheek to cheek--
  "One minute's lapse will be forgiven,
"And thou, the next, shalt hear me speak
  "The spell that plumes my wing for heaven!"

While thus I spoke, the fearful maid,
Of me and of herself afraid,
Had shrinking stood like flowers beneath
The scorching of the south-wind's breath:
But when I named--alas, too well,
  I now recall, tho' wildered then,--
Instantly, when I named the spell
  Her brow, her eyes uprose again;
And with an eagerness that spoke
The sudden light that o'er her broke,
"The spell, the spell!--oh, speak it now.
  "And I will bless thee!" she exclaimed--
  Unknowing what I did, inflamed,
And lost already, on her brow
  I stampt one burning kiss, and named
The mystic word till then ne'er told
To living creature of earth's mould!
Scarce was it said when quick a thought,
Her lips from mine like echo caught
The holy sound--her hands and eyes
Were instant lifted to the skies,
And thrice to heaven she spoke it out
  With that triumphant look Faith wears,
When not a cloud of fear or doubt,
  A vapor from this vale of tears.
  Between her and her God appears!
That very moment her whole frame
All bright and glorified became,
And at her back I saw unclose
Two wings magnificent as those
  That sparkle around ALLA'S Throne,
Whose plumes, as buoyantly she rose
  Above me, in the moon-beam shone
With a pure light; which--from its hue,
Unknown upon this earth--I knew
Was light from Eden, glistening thro'!
Most holy vision! ne'er before
  Did aught so radiant--since the day
When EBLIS in his downfall, bore
  The third of the bright stars away--
Rise in earth's beauty to repair
That loss of light and glory there!

But did I tamely view her flight?
  Did not I too proclaim out thrice
The powerful words that were that night,--
Oh even for heaven too much delight!--
  Again to bring us, eyes to eyes
  And soul to soul, in Paradise?
I did--I spoke it o'er and o'er--
  I prayed, I wept, but all in vain;
For me the spell had power no more.
  There seemed around me some dark chain
Which still as I essayed to soar
Baffled, alas, each wild endeavor;
Dead lay my wings as they have lain
Since that sad hour and will remain--
  So wills the offended God--for ever!

It was to yonder star I traced
Her journey up the illumined waste--
That isle in the blue firmament
To which so oft her fancy went
  In wishes and in dreams before,
And which was now--such, Purity,
Thy blest reward--ordained to be
  Her home of light for evermore!
Once--or did I but fancy so?--
  Even in her flight to that fair sphere,
Mid all her spirit's new-felt glow,
A pitying look she turned below
  On him who stood in darkness here;
Him whom perhaps if vain regret
Can dwell in heaven she pities yet;
And oft when looking to this dim
And distant world remembers him.

But soon that passing dream was gone;
Farther and farther off she shone,
Till lessened to a point as small
  As are those specks that yonder burn,--
Those vivid drops of light that fall
  The last from Day's exhausted urn.
And when at length she merged, afar,
Into her own immortal star,
And when at length my straining sight
  Had caught her wing's last fading ray,
That minute from my soul the light
Of heaven and love both past away;
And I forgot my home, my birth,
  Profaned my spirit, sunk my brow,
And revelled in gross joys of earth
Till I became--what I am now!

The Spirit bowed his head in shame;
  A shame that of itself would tell--
Were there not even those breaks of flame,
Celestial, thro' his clouded frame--
  How grand the height from which he fell!
That holy Shame which ne'er forgets
  The unblenched renown it used to wear;
Whose blush remains when Virtue sets
  To show her sunshine _has_ been there.

Once only while the tale he told
Were his eyes lifted to behold
That happy stainless, star where she
Dwelt in her bower of purity!
One minute did he look and then--
  As tho' he felt some deadly pain
  From its sweet light thro' heart and brain--
Shrunk back and never lookt again.

Who was the Second Spirit? he
  With the proud front and piercing glance--
  Who seemed when viewing heaven's expanse
As tho' his far-sent eye could see
On, on into the Immensity
Behind the veils of that blue sky
Where ALLA'S grandest secrets lie?--
His wings, the while, tho' day was gone,
  Flashing with many a various hue
Of light they from themselves alone,
  Instinct with Eden's brightness drew.
'Twas RUBI--once among the prime
  And flower of those bright creatures, named
Spirits of Knowledge,[5] who o'er Time
  And Space and Thought an empire claimed,
Second alone to Him whose light
Was even to theirs as day to night;
'Twixt whom and them was distance far
  And wide as would the journey be
To reach from any island star
  To vague shores of Infinity

'Twas RUBI in whose mournful eye
Slept the dim light of days gone by;
Whose voice tho' sweet fell on the ear
  Like echoes in some silent place
When first awaked for many a year;
  And when he smiled, if o'er his face
  Smile ever shone, 'twas like the grace
Of moonlight rainbows, fair, but wan,
The sunny life, the glory gone.
Even o'er his pride tho' still the same,
A softening shade from sorrow came;
And tho' at times his spirit knew
  The kindlings of disdain and ire,
Short was the fitful glare they threw--
Like the last flashes, fierce but few,
  Seen thro' some noble pile on fire!
Such was the Angel who now broke
  The silence that had come o'er all,
When he the Spirit that last spoke
  Closed the sad history of his fall;
And while a sacred lustre flown
  For many a day relumed his cheek--
Beautiful as in days of old;
And not those eloquent lips alone
  But every feature seemed to speak--
Thus his eventful story told:--


SECOND ANGEL'S STORY.


You both remember well the day
  When unto Eden's new-made bowers
ALLA convoked the bright array
  Of his supreme angelic powers
To witness the one wonder yet,
  Beyond man, angel, star, or sun,
He must achieve, ere he could set
  His seal upon the world as done--
To see the last perfection rise,
  That crowning of creation's birth,
When mid the worship and surprise
Of circling angels Woman's eyes
  First open upon heaven and earth;
And from their lids a thrill was sent,
That thro' each living spirit went
Like first light thro' the firmament!

Can you forget how gradual stole
The fresh-awakened breath of soul
Throughout her perfect form--which seemed
To grow transparent as there beamed
That dawn of Mind within and caught
New loveliness from each new thought?
Slow as o'er summer seas we trace
  The progress of the noontide air,
Dimpling its bright and silent face
Each minute into some new grace,
  And varying heaven's reflections there--
Or like the light of evening stealing
  O'er some fair temple which all day
Hath slept in shadow, slow revealing
  Its several beauties ray by ray,
Till it shines out, a thing to bless,
All full of light and loveliness.

Can you forget her blush when round
Thro' Eden's lone, enchanted ground
She lookt, and saw the sea--the skies--
  And heard the rush of many a wing,
  On high behests then vanishing;
And saw the last few angel eyes,
Still lingering--mine among the rest,--
Reluctant leaving scenes so blest?
From that miraculous hour the fate
  Of this new, glorious Being dwelt
For ever with a spell-like weight
Upon my spirit--early, late,
  Whate'er I did or dreamed or felt,
The thought of what might yet befall
That matchless creature mixt with all.--
Nor she alone but her whole race
  Thro' ages yet to come--whate'er
  Of feminine and fond and fair
Should spring from that pure mind and face,
  All waked my soul's intensest care;
Their forms, souls, feelings, still to me
Creation's strangest mystery!

It was my doom--even from the first,
When witnessing the primal burst
Of Nature's wonders, I saw rise
Those bright creations in the skies,--
Those worlds instinct with life and light,
Which Man, remote, but sees by night,--
It was my doom still to be haunted
  By some new wonder, some sublime
  And matchless work, that for the time
Held all my soul enchained, enchanted,
And left me not a thought, a dream,
A word but on that only theme!

The wish to know--that endless thirst,
  Which even by quenching is awaked,
And which becomes or blest or curst
  As is the fount whereat 'tis slaked--
Still urged me onward with desire
Insatiate, to explore, inquire--
Whate'er the wondrous things might be
That waked each new idolatry--
  Their cause, aim, source, whenever sprung--
Their inmost powers, as tho' for me
  Existence on that knowledge hung.

Oh what a vision were the stars
  When first I saw them born on high,
Rolling along like living cars
  Of light for gods to journey by![6]
They were like my heart's first passion--days
And nights unwearied, in their rays
Have I hung floating till each sense
Seemed full of their bright influence.
Innocent joy! alas, how much
  Of misery had I shunned below,
Could I have still lived blest with such;
  Nor, proud and restless, burned to know
  The knowledge that brings guilt and woe.

Often--so much I loved to trace
The secrets of this starry race--
Have I at morn and evening run
Along the lines of radiance spun
Like webs between them and the sun,
Untwisting all the tangled ties
Of light into their different dyes--
The fleetly winged I off in quest
Of those, the farthest, loneliest,
That watch like winking sentinels,[7]
The void, beyond which Chaos dwells;
And there with noiseless plume pursued
Their track thro' that grand solitude,
Asking intently all and each
What soul within their radiance dwelt,
And wishing their sweet light were speech,
  That they might tell me all they felt.

Nay, oft, so passionate my chase,
Of these resplendent heirs of space,
Oft did I follow--lest a ray
  Should 'scape me in the farthest night--
Some pilgrim Comet on his way
To visit distant shrines of light,
And well remember how I sung
  Exultingly when on my sight
New worlds of stars all fresh and young
As if just born of darkness sprung!

Such was my pure ambition then,
  My sinless transport night and morn
Ere yet this newer world of men,
  And that most fair of stars was born
Which I in fatal hour saw rise
Among the flowers of Paradise!

Thenceforth my nature all was changed,
  My heart, soul, senses turned below;
And he who but so lately ranged
  Yon wonderful expanse where glow
Worlds upon worlds,--yet found his mind
Even in that luminous range confined,--
Now blest the humblest, meanest sod
Of the dark earth where Woman trod!
In vain my former idols glistened
  From their far thrones; in vain these ears
To the once-thrilling music listened,
  That hymned around my favorite spheres--
To earth, to earth each thought was given,
  That in this half-lost soul had birth;
Like some high mount, whose head's in heaven
  While its whole shadow rests on earth!

Nor was it Love, even yet, that thralled
  My spirit in his burning ties;
And less, still less could it be called
  That grosser flame, round which Love flies
  Nearer and near till he dies--
No, it was wonder, such as thrilled
 At all God's works my dazzled sense;
The same rapt wonder, only filled
  With passion, more profound, intense,--
A vehement, but wandering fire,
Which, tho' nor love, nor yet desire,--
Tho' thro' all womankind it took
  Its range, its lawless lightnings run,
Yet wanted but a touch, a look,
  To fix it burning upon _One_.

Then too the ever-restless zeal,
  The insatiate curiosity,
To know how shapes so fair must feel--
To look but once beneath the seal
  Of so much loveliness and see
What souls belonged to such bright eyes--
  Whether as sunbeams find their way
Into the gem that hidden lies,
  Those looks could inward turn their ray,
  And make the soul as bright as they:
All this impelled my anxious chase.
  And still the more I saw and knew
Of Woman's fond, weak, conquering race,
  The intenser still my wonder grew.
I had beheld their First, their EVE,
  Born in that splendid Paradise,
Which sprung there solely to receive
  The first light of her waking eyes.
I had seen purest angels lean
  In worship o'er her from above;
And man--oh yes, had envying seen
  Proud man possest of all her love.

I saw their happiness, so brief,
  So exquisite,--her error, too,
That easy trust, that prompt belief
  In what the warm heart wishes true;
That faith in words, when kindly said.
By which the whole fond sex is led
Mingled with--what I durst not blame,
  For 'tis my own--that zeal to _know_,
Sad, fatal zeal, so sure of woe;
Which, tho' from heaven all pure it came,
Yet stained, misused, brought sin and shame
  On her, on me, on all below!

I had seen this; had seen Man, armed
  As his soul is with strength and sense,
By her first words to ruin charmed;
  His vaunted reason's cold defence,
Like an ice-barrier in the ray
Of melting summer, smiled away.
Nay, stranger yet, spite of all this--
  Tho' by her counsels taught to err,
  Tho' driven from Paradise for her,
(And _with_ her--_that_ at least was bliss,)
Had I not heard him ere he crost
  The threshold of that earthly heaven,
Which by her bewildering smile he lost--
  So quickly was the wrong forgiven--
Had I not heard him, as he prest
The frail, fond trembler to a breast
Which she had doomed to sin and strife,
Call her--even then--his Life! his Life![8]
Yes, such a love-taught name, the first,
  That ruined Man to Woman gave,
Even in his outcast hour, when curst
By her fond witchery, with that worst
  And earliest boon of love, the grave!
She who brought death into the world
  There stood before him, with the light
  Of their lost Paradise still bright
Upon those sunny locks that curled
Down her white shoulders to her feet--
So beautiful in form, so sweet
In heart and voice, as to redeem
  The loss, the death of all things dear,
Except herself--and make it seem
  Life, endless Life, while she was near!
Could I help wondering at a creature,
  Thus circled round with spells so strong--
One to whose every thought, word, feature.
  In joy and woe, thro' right and wrong,
Such sweet omnipotence heaven gave,
To bless or ruin, curse or save?

Nor did the marvel cease with her--
  New Eves in all her daughters came,
As strong to charm, as weak to err,
  As sure of man thro' praise and blame,
  Whate'er they brought him, pride or shame,
He still the unreasoning worshipper,
  And they, throughout all time, the same
  Enchantresses of soul and frame,
Into whose hands, from first to last,
  This world with all its destinies,
Devotedly by heaven seems cast,
  To save or ruin as they please!
Oh! 'tis not to be told how long,
  How restlessly I sighed to find
Some _one_ from out that witching throng,
  Some abstract of the form and mind
Of the whole matchless sex, from which,
  In my own arms beheld, possest,
I might learn all the powers to witch,
  To warm, and (if my fate unblest
  _Would_ have it) ruin, of the rest!
Into whose inward soul and sense,
  I might descend, as doth the bee
Into the flower's deep heart, and thence
  Rifle in all its purity
The prime, the quintessence, the whole
Of wondrous Woman's frame and soul!
At length my burning wish, my prayer--
(For such--oh! what will tongues not dare,
When hearts go wrong?--this lip preferred)--
At length my ominous prayer was heard--
But whether heard in heaven or hell,
Listen--and thou wilt know _too_ well.

There was a maid, of all who move
  Like visions o'er this orb most fit.
To be a bright young angel's love--
  Herself so bright, so exquisite!
The pride too of her step, as light
  Along the unconscious earth she went,
Seemed that of one born with a right
  To walk some heavenlier element,
And tread in places where her feet
A star at every step should meet.
'Twas not alone that loveliness
  By which the wildered sense is caught--
Of lips whose very breath could bless;
  Of playful blushes that seemed naught
  But luminous escapes of thought;
Of eyes that, when by anger stirred,
Were fire itself, but at a word
  Of tenderness, all soft became
As tho' they could, like the sun's bird,
  Dissolve away in their own flame--
Of form, as pliant as the shoots
  Of a young tree, in vernal flower;
Yet round and glowing as the fruits,
  That drop from it in summer's hour;--
'Twas not alone this loveliness
  That falls to loveliest women's share,
  Tho' even here her form could spare
From its own beauty's rich excess
  Enough to make even _them_ more fair--
But 'twas the Mind outshining clear
Thro' her whole frame--the soul, still near,
To light each charm, yet independent
  Of what it lighted, as the sun
That shines on flowers would be resplendent
  Were there no flowers to shine upon--
'Twas this, all this, in one combined--
  The unnumbered looks and arts that form
The glory of young womankind,
  Taken, in their perfection, warm,
  Ere time had chilled a single charm,
And stampt with such a seal of Mind,
  As gave to beauties that might be
Too sensual else, too unrefined,
  The impress of Divinity!

'Twas this--a union, which the hand
  Of Nature kept for her alone,
Of every thing most playful, bland,
Voluptuous, spiritual, grand,
  In angel-natures and her own--
Oh! this it was that drew me nigh
One, who seemed kin to heaven as I,
A bright twin-sister from on high--
One in whose love, I felt, were given
  The mixt delights of either sphere,
All that the spirit seeks in heaven,
  And all the senses burn for here.

Had we--but hold!--hear every part
  Of our sad tale--spite of the pain
Remembrance gives, when the fixt dart
  Is stirred thus in the wound again--
Hear every step, so full of bliss,
  And yet so ruinous, that led
Down to the last, dark precipice,
  Where perisht both--the fallen, the dead!

From the first hour she caught my sight,
I never left her--day and night
Hovering unseen around her way,
  And mid her loneliest musings near,
I soon could track each thought that lay,
  Gleaming within her heart, as clear
  As pebbles within brooks appear;
And there among the countless things
  That keep young hearts for ever glowing--
Vague wishes, fond imaginings,
  Love-dreams, as yet no object knowing--
Light, winged hopes that come when bid,
  And rainbow joys that end in weeping;
And passions among pure thoughts hid,
  Like serpents under flowerets sleeping:--
'Mong all these feelings--felt where'er
Young hearts are beating--I saw there
Proud thoughts, aspirings high--beyond
Whate'er yet dwelt in soul so fond--
Glimpses of glory, far away
  Into the bright, vague future given;
And fancies, free and grand, whose play,
  Like that of eaglets, is near heaven!
With this, too--what a soul and heart
To fall beneath the tempter's art!--
A zeal for knowledge, such as ne'er
Enshrined itself in form so fair,
Since that first, fatal hour, when Eve,
  With every fruit of Eden blest
Save one alone--rather than leave
  That _one_ unreached, lost all the rest.

It was in dreams that first I stole
  With gentle mastery o'er her mind--
In that rich twilight of the soul,
  When reason's beam, half hid behind
The clouds of sleep, obscurely gilds
Each shadowy shape that Fancy builds--
'Twas then by that soft light I brought
  Vague, glimmering visions to her view,--
Catches of radiance lost when caught,
Bright labyrinths that led to naught,
  And vistas with no pathway thro';--
Dwellings of bliss that opening shone,
  Then closed, dissolved, and left no trace--
All that, in short, could tempt Hope on,
  But give her wing no resting-place;
Myself the while with brow as yet
Pure as the young moon's coronet,
Thro' every dream _still_ in her sight.
  The enchanter of each mocking scene,
Who gave the hope, then brought the blight,
Who said, "Behold yon world of light,"
  Then sudden dropt a veil between!

At length when I perceived each thought,
Waking or sleeping, fixt on naught
  But these illusive scenes and me--
The phantom who thus came and went,
In half revealments, only meant
  To madden curiosity--
When by such various arts I found
Her fancy to its utmost wound.
One night--'twas in a holy spot
Which she for prayer had chosen--a grot
Of purest marble built below
Her garden beds, thro' which a glow
From lamps invisible then stole,
  Brightly pervading all the place--
Like that mysterious light the soul,
  Itself unseen, sheds thro' the face.
There at her altar while she knelt,
And all that woman ever felt,
  When God and man both claimed her sighs--
Every warm thought, that ever dwelt,
  Like summer clouds, 'twixt earth and skies,
  Too pure to fall, too gross to rise,
  Spoke in her gestures, tones, and eyes--
Then, as the mystic light's soft ray
Grew softer still, as tho' its ray
Was breathed from her, I heard her say:--

"O idol of my dreams! whate'er
  "Thy nature be--human, divine,
"Or but half heavenly--still too fair,
  "Too heavenly to be ever mine!

"Wonderful Spirit who dost make
  "Slumber so lovely that it seems
"No longer life to live awake,
  "Since heaven itself descends in dreams,

"Why do I ever lose thee? why
  "When on thy realms and thee I gaze
"Still drops that veil, which I could die,
  "Oh! gladly, but one hour to raise?

"Long ere such miracles as thou
  "And thine came o'er my thoughts, a thirst
"For light was in this soul which now
  "Thy looks have into passion burst.

"There's nothing bright above, below,
  "In sky--earth--ocean, that this breast
"Doth not intensely burn to know,
  "And thee, thee, thee, o'er all the rest!

"Then come, oh Spirit, from behind
  "The curtains of thy radiant home,
"If thou wouldst be as angel shrined,
  "Or loved and claspt as mortal, come!

"Bring all thy dazzling wonders here,
  "That I may, waking, know and see;
"Or waft me hence to thy own sphere,
  "Thy heaven or--ay, even _that_ with thee!

"Demon or God, who hold'st the book
  "Of knowledge spread beneath thine eye,
"Give me, with thee, but one bright look
  "Into its leaves and let me die!

"By those ethereal wings whose way
  "Lies thro' an element so fraught
"With living Mind that as they play
  "Their every movement is a thought!

"By that bright, wreathed hair, between
  "Whose sunny clusters the sweet wind
"Of Paradise so late hath been
  "And left its fragrant soul behind!

"By those impassioned eyes that melt
  "Their light into the inmost heart,
"Like sunset in the waters, felt
  "As molten fire thro' every part--

"I do implore thee, oh most bright
  "And worshipt Spirit, shine but o'er
"My waking, wondering eyes this night
  "This one blest night--I ask no more!"

Exhausted, breathless, as she said
These burning words, her languid head
Upon the altar's steps she cast,
As if that brain-throb were its last---

Till, startled by the breathing, nigh,
Of lips that echoed back her sigh,
Sudden her brow again she raised;
  And there, just lighted on the shrine,
Beheld me--not as I had blazed
  Around her, full of light divine,
In her late dreams, but softened down
Into more mortal grace;--my crown
Of flowers, too radiant for this world,
  Left hanging on yon starry steep;
My wings shut up, like banners furled,
  When Peace hath put their pomp to sleep;
  Or like autumnal clouds that keep
Their lightnings sheathed rather than mar
The dawning hour of some young star;
And nothing left but what beseemed
  The accessible, tho' glorious mate
Of mortal woman--whose eyes beamed
  Back upon hers, as passionate;
Whose ready heart brought flame for flame,
Whose sin, whose madness was the same;
And whose soul lost in that one hour
  For her and for her love--oh more
Of heaven's light than even the power
  Of heaven itself could now restore!
And yet, that hour!--

                    The Spirit here
  Stopt in his utterance as if words
Gave way beneath the wild career
  Of his then rushing thoughts--like chords,
Midway in some enthusiast's song,
Breaking beneath a touch too strong;
While the clenched hand upon the brow
Told how remembrance throbbed there now!
But soon 'twas o'er--that casual blaze
From the sunk fire of other days--
That relic of a flame whose burning
  Had been too fierce to be relumed,
Soon passt away, and the youth turning
  To his bright listeners thus resumed:--

Days, months elapsed, and, tho' what most
  On earth I sighed for was mine, all--
Yet--was I happy? God, thou know'st,
Howe'er they smile and feign and boast,
  What happiness is theirs, who fall!
'Twas bitterest anguish--made more keen
Even by the love, the bliss, between
Whose throbs it came, like gleams of hell
  In agonizing cross-light given
Athwart the glimpses, they who dwell
  In purgatory[9] catch of heaven!
The only feeling that to me
  Seemed joy--or rather my sole rest
From aching misery--was to see
  My young, proud, blooming LILIS blest.
She, the fair fountain of all ill
  To my lost soul--whom yet its thirst
Fervidly panted after still,
  And found the charm fresh as at first--
To see _her_ happy--to reflect
  Whatever beams still round me played
Of former pride, of glory wreckt,
  On her, my Moon, whose light I made,
  And whose soul worshipt even my shade--
This was, I own, enjoyment--this
My sole, last lingering glimpse of bliss.
And proud she was, fair creature!--proud,
  Beyond what even most queenly stirs
In woman's heart, nor would have bowed
  That beautiful young brow of hers
To aught beneath the First above,
So high she deemed her Cherub's love!

Then too that passion hourly growing
  Stronger and stronger--to which even
Her love at times gave way--of knowing
  Everything strange in earth and heaven;
Not only all that, full revealed,
  The eternal ALLA loves to show,
But all that He hath wisely sealed
  In darkness for man _not_ to know--
Even this desire, alas! ill-starred
  And fatal as it was, I sought
To feed each minute, and unbarred
  Such realms of wonder on her thought
As ne'er till then had let their light
Escape on any mortal's sight!

In the deep earth--beneath the sea--
  Thro' caves of fire--thro' wilds of air--
Wherever sleeping Mystery
  Had spread her curtain, we were there--
Love still beside us as we went,
At home in each new element
  And sure of worship everywhere!

Then first was Nature taught to lay
  The wealth of all her kingdoms down
At woman's worshipt feet and say
  "Bright creature, this is all thine own!"
Then first were diamonds from the night,
Of earth's deep centre brought to light
And made to grace the conquering way
Of proud young beauty with their ray.

Then too the pearl from out its shell
  Unsightly, in the sunless sea,
(As 'twere a spirit, forced to dwell
  In form unlovely) was set free,
And round the neck of woman threw
A light it lent and borrowed too.
For never did this maid--whate'er
  The ambition of the hour--forget
Her sex's pride in being fair;
Nor that adornment, tasteful, rare,
Which makes the mighty magnet, set
In Woman's form, more mighty yet.
Nor was there aught within the range
  Of my swift wing in sea or air,
Of beautiful or grand or strange,
That, quickly as her wish could change,
  I did not seek, with such fond care,
That when I've seen her look above
  At some bright star admiringly,
I've said, "Nay, look not there, my love,[10]
  "Alas, I _can not_ give it thee!"

But not alone the wonders found
  Thro' Nature's realm--the unveiled, material,
Visible glories, that abound
Thro' all her vast, enchanted ground--
  But whatsoe'er unseen, ethereal,
Dwells far away from human sense,
Wrapt in its own intelligence--
The mystery of that Fountainhead,
  From which all vital spirit runs,
All breath of Life, where'er 'tis spread
  Thro' men or angels, flowers or suns--
The workings of the Almighty Mind,
When first o'er Chaos he designed
The outlines of this world, and thro'
  That depth of darkness--like the bow,
Called out of rain-clouds hue by hue[11]
  Saw the grand, gradual picture grow;--
The covenant with human kind
  By ALLA made--the chains of Fate
He round himself and them hath twined,
  Till his high task he consummate;--
  Till good from evil, love from hate,
Shall be workt out thro' sin and pain,
And Fate shall loose her iron chain
And all be free, be bright again!


Such were the deep-drawn mysteries,
  And some, even more obscure, profound,
And wildering to the mind than these,
  Which--far as woman's thought could sound,
Or a fallen, outlawed spirit reach--
She dared to learn and I to teach.
Till--filled with such unearthly lore,
  And mingling the pure light it brings
With much that fancy had before
  Shed in false, tinted glimmerings--
The enthusiast girl spoke out, as one
  Inspired, among her own dark race,
Who from their ancient shrines would run,
Leaving their holy rites undone,
  To gaze upon her holier face.
And tho' but wild the things she spoke,
Yet mid that play of error's smoke
  Into fair shapes by fancy curled,
Some gleams of pure religion broke--
Glimpses that have not yet awoke,
  But startled the still dreaming world!
Oh! many a truth, remote, sublime,
  Which Heaven would from the minds of men
Have kept concealed till its own time,
  Stole out in these revealments then--
Revealments dim that have forerun,
By ages, the great, Sealing One![12]
Like that imperfect dawn or light[13]
  Escaping from the Zodiac's signs,
Which makes the doubtful east half bright,
  Before the real morning shines!

Thus did some moons of bliss go by--
  Of bliss to her who saw but love
And knowledge throughout earth and sky;
To whose enamored soul and eye
I seemed--as is the sun on high--
  The light of all below, above,
The spirit of sea and land and air,
Whose influence, felt everywhere,
Spread from its centre, her own heart,
Even to the world's extremest part;
While thro' that world her rainless mind
  Had now careered so fast and far,
That earth itself seemed left behind
And her proud fancy unconfined
  Already saw Heaven's gates ajar!

Happy enthusiast! still, oh! still
Spite of my own heart's mortal chill,
Spite of that double-fronted sorrow
  Which looks at once before and back,
Beholds the yesterday, the morrow,
  And sees both comfortless, both black--
Spite of all this, I could have still
In her delight forgot all ill;
Or if pain _would_ not be forgot,
At least have borne and murmured not.
When thoughts of an offended heaven,
  Of sinfulness, which I--even I,
While down its steep most headlong driven--
Well knew could never be forgiven,
  Came o'er me with an agony
Beyond all reach of mortal woe--
A torture kept for those who know.

Know _every_ thing, and--worst of all--
Know and love Virtue while they fall!
Even then her presence had the power
  To soothe, to warm--nay, even to bless--
If ever bliss could graft its flower
  On stem so full of bitterness--
Even then her glorious smile to me
  Brought warmth and radiance if not balm;
Like moonlight o'er a troubled sea.
  Brightening the storm it cannot calm.

Oft too when that disheartening fear,
  Which all who love, beneath yon sky,
Feel when they gaze on what is dear--
  The dreadful thought that it must die!
That desolating thought which comes
Into men's happiest hours and homes;
Whose melancholy boding flings
Death's shadow o'er the brightest things,
Sicklies the infant's bloom and spreads
The grave beneath young lovers' heads!
This fear, so sad to all--to me
  Most full of sadness from the thought
That I most still live on,[14] when she
Would, like the snow that on the sea
  Fell yesterday, in vain be sought;
That heaven to me this final seal
  Of all earth's sorrow would deny,
And I eternally must feel
  The death-pang without power to die!

Even this, her fond endearments--fond
As ever cherisht the sweet bond
'Twixt heart and heart--could charm away;
Before her looks no clouds would stay,
Or if they did their gloom was gone,
Their darkness put a glory on!
But 'tis not, 'tis not for the wrong,
The guilty, to be happy long;
And she too now had sunk within
The shadow of her tempter's sin,
Too deep for even Omnipotence
To snatch the fated victim thence!
Listen and if a tear there be
Left in your hearts weep it for me.

'Twas on the evening of a day,
Which we in love had dreamt away;
In that same garden, where--the pride
Of seraph splendor laid aside,
And those wings furled, whose open light
For mortal gaze were else too bright--
I first had stood before her sight,
And found myself--oh, ecstasy,
  Which even in pain I ne'er forget--
Worshipt as only God should be,
  And loved as never man was yet!
In that same garden where we now,
  Thoughtfully side by side reclining,
Her eyes turned upward and her brow
  With its own silent fancies shining.

It was an evening bright and still
  As ever blusht on wave or bower,
Smiling from heaven as if naught ill
  Could happen in so sweet an hour.
Yet I remember both grew sad
  In looking at that light--even she,
Of heart so fresh and brow so glad,
  Felt the still hour's solemnity,
And thought she saw in that repose
  The death-hour not alone of light,
But of this whole fair world--the close
  Of all things beautiful and bright--
The last, grand sunset, in whose ray
Nature herself died calm away!

At length, as tho' some livelier thought
Had suddenly her fancy caught,
She turned upon me her dark eyes,
  Dilated into that full shape
They took in joy, reproach, surprise,
  As 'twere to let more soul escape,
And, playfully as on my head
Her white hand rested, smiled and said:--

"I had last night a dream of thee,
  "Resembling those divine ones, given,
"Like preludes to sweet minstrelsy,
  "Before thou camest thyself from heaven.

"The same rich wreath was on thy brow,
  "Dazzling as if of starlight made;
"And these wings, lying darkly now,
  "Like meteors round thee flasht and played.

"Thou stoodest, all bright, as in those dreams,
  "As if just wafted from above,
"Mingling earth's warmth with heaven's beams,
  "And creature to adore and love.

"Sudden I felt thee draw me near
  "To thy pure heart, where, fondly placed,
"I seemed within the atmosphere
  "Of that exhaling light embraced;

"And felt methought the ethereal flame
  "Pass from thy purer soul to mine;
"Till--oh, too blissful--I became,
  "Like thee, all spirit, all divine!

"Say, why did dream so blest come o'er me,
  "If, now I wake, 'tis faded, gone?
"When will my Cherub shine before me
  "Thus radiant, as in heaven he shone?

"When shall I, waking, be allowed
  "To gaze upon those perfect charms,
"And clasp thee once without a cloud,
  "A chill of earth, within these arms?

"Oh what a pride to say, this, this
  "Is my own Angel--all divine,
"And pure and dazzling as he is
  "And fresh from heaven--he's mine, he's mine!

"Thinkest thou, were LILIS in thy place,
  "A creature of yon lofty skies,
"She would have hid one single grace,
  "One glory from her lover's eyes?

  "No, no--then, if thou lovest like me,
  "Shine out, young Spirit in the blaze
"Of thy most proud divinity,
  "Nor think thou'lt wound this mortal gaze.

"Too long and oft I've looked upon
  "Those ardent eyes, intense even thus--
"Too near the stars themselves have gone,
  "To fear aught grand or luminous.

"Then doubt me not--oh! who can say
  "But that this dream may yet come true
"And my blest spirit drink thy ray,
  "Till it becomes all heavenly too?

"Let me this once but feel the flame
  "Of those spread wings, the very pride
"Will change my nature, and this frame
  "By the mere touch be deified!"

Thus spoke the maid, as one not used
To be by earth or heaven refused--
As one who knew her influence o'er
  All creatures, whatsoe'er they were,
And tho' to heaven she could not soar,
  At least would bring down heaven to her.

Little did she, alas! or I--
  Even I, whose soul, but halfway yet
Immerged in sin's obscurity
Was as the earth whereon we lie,
  O'er half whose disk the sun is set--
Little did we foresee the fate,
  The dreadful--how can it be told?
Such pain, such anguish to relate
  Is o'er again to feel, behold!
But, charged as 'tis, my heart must speak
Its sorrow out or it will break!
Some dark misgivings _had_, I own,
  Past for a moment thro' my breast--
Fears of some danger, vague, unknown,
  To one, or both--something unblest
  To happen from this proud request.

But soon these boding fancies fled;
  Nor saw I aught that could forbid
My full revealment save the dread
  Of that first dazzle, when, unhid,
  Such light should burst upon a lid
Ne'er tried in heaven;--and even this glare
She might, by love's own nursing care,
Be, like young eagles, taught to bear.
For well I knew, the lustre shed
From cherub wings, when proudliest spread,
Was in its nature lambent, pure,
  And innocent as is the light
The glow-worm hangs out to allure
  Her mate to her green bower at night.
Oft had I in the mid-air swept
Thro' clouds in which the lightning slept,
As in its lair, ready to spring,
Yet waked it not--tho' from my wing
A thousand sparks fell glittering!
Oft too when round me from above
  The feathered snow in all its whiteness,
Fell like the moultings of heaven's Dove,[15]--
  So harmless, tho' so full of brightness,
Was my brow's wreath that it would shake
From off its flowers each downy flake
As delicate, unmelted, fair,
And cool as they had lighted there.

Nay even with LILIS--had I not
  Around her sleep all radiant beamed,
Hung o'er her slumbers nor forgot
  To kiss her eyelids as she dreamed?
And yet at morn from that repose,
  Had she not waked, unscathed and bright,
As doth the pure, unconscious rose
  Tho' by the fire-fly kist all night?

Thus having--as, alas! deceived
By my sin's blindness, I believed--
No cause for dread and those dark eyes
  Now fixt upon me eagerly
As tho' the unlocking of the skies
  Then waited but a sign from me--
How could I pause? how even let fall
  A word; a whisper that could stir
In her proud heart a doubt that all
  I brought from heaven belonged to her?
Slow from her side I rose, while she
Arose too, mutely, tremblingly,
But not with fear--all hope, and pride,
  She waited for the awful boon,
Like priestesses at eventide
  Watching the rise of the full moon
Whose light, when once its orb hath shone,
'Twill madden them to look upon!

Of all my glories, the bright crown
Which when I last from heaven came down
Was left behind me in yon star
That shines from out those clouds afar--
Where, relic sad, 'tis treasured yet,
The downfallen angel's coronet!--
Of all my glories, this alone
Was wanting:--but the illumined brow,
The sun-bright locks, the eyes that now
Had love's spell added to their own,
And poured a light till then unknown;--
  The unfolded wings that in their play
Shed sparkles bright as ALLA'S throne;
  All I could bring of heaven's array,
  Of that rich panoply of charms
A Cherub moves in, on the day
Of his best pomp, I now put on;
And, proud that in her eyes I shone
  Thus glorious, glided to her arms;
Which still (tho', at a sight so splendid,
  Her dazzled brow had instantly
Sunk on her breast), were wide extended
  To clasp the form she durst not see![16]
Great Heaven! how _could_ thy vengeance light
So bitterly on one so bright?
How could the hand that gave such charms,
Blast them again in love's own arms?
Scarce had I touched her shrinking frame,
  When--oh most horrible!--I felt
That every spark of that pure flame--
  Pure, while among the stars I dwelt--
Was now by my transgression turned
Into gross, earthly fire, which burned,
Burned all it touched as fast as eye
  Could follow the fierce, ravening flashes;
Till there--oh God, I still ask why
Such doom was hers?--I saw her lie
  Blackening within my arms to ashes!
That brow, a glory but to see--
  Those lips whose touch was what the first
Fresh cup of immortality
  Is to a new-made angel's thirst!

Those clasping arms, within whose round--
My heart's horizon--the whole bound
Of its hope, prospect, heaven was found!
Which, even in this dread moment, fond
  As when they first were round me cast,
Loosed not in death the fatal bond,
  But, burning, held me to the last!
All, all, that, but that morn, had seemed
As if Love's self there breathed and beamed,
Now parched and black before me lay,
Withering in agony away;
And mine, oh misery! mine the flame
From which this desolation came;--
I, the curst spirit whose caress
Had blasted all that loveliness!

'Twas maddening!--but now hear even worse--
Had death, death only, been the curse
I brought upon her--had the doom
But ended here, when her young bloom
Lay in the dust--and did the spirit
No part of that fell curse inherit,
'Twere not so dreadful--but, come near--
Too shocking 'tis for earth to hear--
Just when her eyes in fading took
Their last, keen, agonized farewell,
And looked in mine with--oh, that look!
  Great vengeful Power, whate'er the hell
Thou mayst to human souls assign,
The memory of that look is mine!--

In her last struggle, on my brow
  Her ashy lips a kiss imprest,
So withering!--I feel it now--
  'Twas fire--but fire, even more unblest
Than was my own, and like that flame,
The angels shudder but to name,
Hell's everlasting element!
  Deep, deep it pierced into my brain,
Maddening and torturing as it went;
  And here, mark here, the brand, the stain
It left upon my front--burnt in
By that last kiss of love and sin--
A brand which all the pomp and pride
Of a fallen Spirit cannot hide!

But is it thus, dread Providence--
  _Can_ it indeed be thus, that she
Who, (but for _one_ proud, fond offence,)
  Had honored heaven itself, should be
Now doomed--I cannot speak it--no,
Merciful ALLA! _'tis_ not so--
Never could lips divine have said
The fiat of a fate so dread.
And yet, that look--so deeply fraught
  With more than anguish, with despair--
That new, fierce fire, resembling naught
  In heaven or earth--this scorch I bear!--
Oh--for the first time that these knees
  Have bent before thee since my fall,
Great Power, if ever thy decrees
  Thou couldst for prayer like mine recall,
Pardon that spirit, and on me,
  On me, who taught her pride to err,
Shed out each drop of agony
  Thy burning phial keeps for her!
See too where low beside me kneel
  Two other outcasts who, tho' gone
And lost themselves, yet dare to feel
  And pray for that poor mortal one.
Alas, too well, too well they know
The pain, the penitence, the woe
That Passion brings upon the best,
The wisest, and the loveliest.--
Oh! who is to be saved, if such
  Bright, erring souls are not forgiven;
So loath they wander, and so much
  Their very wanderings lean towards heaven!
Again I cry. Just Power, transfer
  That creature's sufferings all to me--
  Mine, mine the guilt, the torment be,
To save one minute's pain to her,
  Let mine last all eternity!

He paused and to the earth bent down
  His throbbing head; while they who felt
That agony as 'twere their own,
  Those angel youths, beside him knelt,
And in the night's still silence there,
While mournfully each wandering air
Played in those plumes that never more
To their lost home in heaven must soar,
Breathed inwardly the voiceless prayer,
Unheard by all but Mercy's ear--
And which if Mercy _did not_ hear,
Oh, God would _not_ be what this bright
  And glorious universe of His,
This world of beauty, goodness, light
  And endless love proclaims He _is_!

Not long they knelt, when from a wood
That crowned that airy solitude,
They heard a low, uncertain sound,
As from a lute, that just had found
Some happy theme and murmured round
The new-born fancy, with fond tone,
Scarce thinking aught so sweet its own!
Till soon a voice, that matched as well
  That gentle instrument, as suits
The sea-air to an ocean-shell,
  (So kin its spirit to the lute's),
Tremblingly followed the soft strain,
Interpreting its joy, its pain,
  And lending the light wings of words
To many a thought that else had lain
  Unfledged and mute among the chords.

All started at the sound--but chief
  The third young Angel in whose face,
Tho' faded like the others, grief
  Had left a gentler, holier trace;
As if, even yet, thro' pain and ill,
Hope had not fled him--as if still
Her precious pearl in sorrow's cup
  Unmelted at the bottom lay,
To shine again, when, all drunk up,
  The bitterness should pass away.
Chiefly did he, tho' in his eyes
There shone more pleasure than surprise,
Turn to the wood from whence that sound
  Of solitary sweetness broke;
Then, listening, look delighted round
  To his bright peers, while thus it spoke:--
"Come, pray with me, my seraph love,
  "My angel-lord, come pray with me:
"In vain to-night my lips hath strove
"To send one holy prayer above--
"The knee may bend, the lip may move,
  "But pray I cannot, without thee!
"I've fed the altar in my bower
  "With droppings from the incense tree;
"I've sheltered it from wind and shower,
"But dim it burns the livelong hour,
"As if, like me, it had no power
  "Of life or lustre without thee!

"A boat at midnight sent alone
  "To drift upon the moonless sea,
"A lute, whose leading chord is gone,
"A wounded bird that hath but one
"Imperfect wing to soar upon,
  "Are like what I am without thee!

"Then ne'er, my spirit-love, divide,
  "In life or death, thyself from me;
"But when again in sunny pride
"Thou walk'st thro' Eden, let me glide,
"A prostrate shadow, by thy side--
  "Oh happier thus than without thee!"

The song had ceased when from the wood
  Which sweeping down that airy height,
Reached the lone spot whereon they stood--
  There suddenly shone out a light
From a clear lamp, which, as it blazed
Across the brow of one, who raised
Its flame aloft (as if to throw
The light upon that group below),
Displayed two eyes sparkling between
The dusky leaves, such as are seen
By fancy only, in those faces,
  That haunt a poet's walk at even,
Looking from out their leafy places
  Upon his dreams of love and heaven.
'Twas but a moment--the blush brought
O'er all her features at the thought
  Of being seen thus, late, alone,
By any but the eyes she sought,
  Had scarcely for an instant shore
  Thro' the dark leaves when she was gone--
Gone, like a meteor that o'erhead
Suddenly shines, and, ere we've said,
"Behold, how beautiful!"--'tis fled,
Yet ere she went the words, "I come,
  "I come, my NAMA," reached her ear,
  In that kind voice, familiar, dear,
Which tells of confidence, of home,--
  Of habit, that hath drawn hearts near,
Till they grow _one_,--of faith sincere,
And all that Love most loves to hear;
A music breathing of the past,
  The present and the time to be,
Where Hope and Memory to the last
  Lengthen out life's true harmony!

Nor long did he whom call so kind
Summoned away remain behind:
Nor did there need much time to tell
  What they--alas! more fallen than he
From happiness and heaven--knew well,
  His gentler love's short history!

Thus did it run--_not_ as he told
  The tale himself, but as 'tis graved
Upon the tablets that, of old,
  By SETH[17] were from the deluge saved,
All written over with sublime
  And saddening legends of the unblest
But glorious Spirits of that time,
  And this young Angel's 'mong the rest.


THIRD ANGEL'S STORY.


Among the Spirits, of pure flame,
  That in the eternal heavens abide--
Circles of light that from the same
  Unclouded centre sweeping wide,
  Carry its beams on every side--
Like spheres of air that waft around
The undulations of rich sound--

Till the far-circling radiance be
Diffused into infinity!
First and immediate near the Throne
Of ALLA, as if most his own,
The Seraphs stand[18] this burning sign
Traced on their banner, "Love Divine!"
Their rank, their honors, far above
  Even those to high-browed Cherubs given,
Tho' knowing all;--so much doth Love
  Transcend all Knowledge, even in heaven!

'Mong these was ZARAPH once--and none
  E'er felt affection's holy fire,
Or yearned towards the Eternal One,
  With half such longing, deep desire.
Love was to his impassioned soul
  Not as with others a mere part
Of its existence, but the whole--
  The very life-breath of his heart!

Oft, when from ALLA'S lifted brow
  A lustre came, too bright to bear,
And all the seraph ranks would bow,
  To shade their dazzled sight nor dare
  To look upon the effulgence there--
This Spirit's eyes would court the blaze
  (Such pride he in adoring took),

And rather lose in that one gaze
  The power of looking than _not_ look!
Then too when angel voices sung
The mercy of their God and strung
Their harps to hail with welcome sweet
  That moment, watched for by all eyes,
When some repentant sinner's feet
  First touched the threshold of the skies,
Oh! then how clearly did the voice
Of ZARAPH above all rejoice!
Love was in every buoyant tone--
  Such love as only could belong
To the blest angels and alone
  Could, even from angels, bring such song!
Alas! that it should e'er have been
  In heaven as 'tis too often here,
Where nothing fond or bright is seen,
  But it hath pain and peril near;--
Where right and wrong so close resemble,
  That what we take for virtue's thrill
Is often the first downward tremble
  Of the heart's balance unto ill;
Where Love hath not a shrine so pure,
  So holy, but the serpent, Sin,
In moments, even the most secure,
  Beneath his altar may glide in!

So was it with that Angel--such
  The charm, that sloped his fall along,
From good to ill, from loving much,
  Too easy lapse, to loving wrong.--
Even so that amorous Spirit, bound
By beauty's spell where'er 'twas found,
From the bright things above the moon
  Down to earth's beaming eyes descended,
Till love for the Creator soon
  In passion for the creature ended.

'Twas first at twilight, on the shore
  Of the smooth sea, he heard the lute
And voice of her he loved steal o'er
  The silver waters that lay mute,
As loath, by even a breath, to stay
The pilgrimage of that sweet lay;
Whose echoes still went on and on,
Till lost among the light that shone
Far off beyond the ocean's brim--
  There where the rich cascade of day
Had o'er the horizon's golden rim,
  Into Elysium rolled away!
Of God she sung and of the mild
  Attendant Mercy that beside
His awful throne for ever smiled,
  Ready with her white hand to guide
His bolts of vengeance to their prey--
That she might quench them on the way!
Of Peace--of that Atoning Love,
Upon whose star, shining above
This twilight world of hope and fear,
  The weeping eyes of Faith are fixt
So fond that with her every tear
  The light of that love-star is mixt!--
All this she sung, and such a soul
  Of piety was in that song
That the charmed Angel as it stole
  Tenderly to his ear, along
Those lulling waters where he lay,
Watching the daylight's dying ray,
Thought 'twas a voice from out the wave,
An echo, that some sea-nymph gave
To Eden's distant harmony,
Heard faint and sweet beneath the sea!

Quickly, however, to its source,
Tracking that music's melting course,
He saw upon the golden sands
Of the sea-shore a maiden stand,
Before whose feet the expiring waves
  Flung their last offering with a sigh--
As, in the East, exhausted slaves
  Lay down the far-brought gift and die--
And while her lute hung by her hushed
  As if unequal to the tide
Of song that from her lips still gushed,
  She raised, like one beatified,
Those eyes whose light seemed rather given
  To be adored than to adore--
Such eyes as may have lookt _from_ heaven
  But ne'er were raised to it before!

Oh Love, Religion, Music--all
  That's left of Eden upon earth--
The only blessings, since the fall
Of our weak souls, that still recall
  A trace of their high, glorious birth--
How kindred are the dreams you bring!
  How Love tho' unto earth so prone,
Delights to take Religion's wing,
  When time or grief hath stained his own!
How near to Love's beguiling brink
  Too oft entranced Religion lies!
While Music, Music is the link
  They _both_ still hold by to the skies,
The language of their native sphere
Which they had else forgotten here.

How then could ZARAPH fail to feel
  That moment's witcheries?--one, so fair,
Breathing out music, that might steal
  Heaven from itself, and rapt in prayer
  That seraphs might be proud to share!
Oh, he _did_ feel it, all too well--
  With warmth, that far too dearly cost--
Nor knew he, when at last he fell,
To which attraction, to which spell,
Love, Music, or Devotion, most
His soul in that sweet hour was lost.

Sweet was the hour, tho' dearly won,
  And pure, as aught of earth could be,
For then first did the glorious sun
  Before religion's altar see
Two hearts in wedlock's golden tie
Self-pledged, in love to live and die.
Blest union! by that Angel wove,
  And worthy from such hands to come;
Safe, sole, asylum, in which Love,
When fallen or exiled from above,
  In this dark world can find a home.

And, tho' the Spirit had transgrest,
Had, from his station 'mong the blest
Won down by woman's smile, allow'd
  Terrestrial passion to breathe o'er
The mirror of his heart, and cloud
  God's image there so bright before--
Yet never did that Power look down
  On error with a brow so mild;
Never did Justice wear a frown,
  Thro' which so gently Mercy smiled.

For humble was their love--with awe
  And trembling like some treasure kept,
That was not theirs by holy law--
Whose beauty with remorse they saw
  And o'er whose preciousness they wept.
Humility, that low, sweet root,
From which all heavenly virtues shoot,
Was in the hearts of both--but most
  In NAMA'S heart, by whom alone
Those charms, for which a heaven was lost.
  Seemed all unvalued and unknown;
And when her Seraph's eyes she caught,
  And hid hers glowing on his breast,
Even bliss was humbled by the thought--
  "What claim have I to be so blest"?
Still less could maid, so meek, have nurst
Desire of knowledge--that vain thirst,
With which the sex hath all been curst
From luckless EVE to her who near
The Tabernacle stole to hear
The secrets of the Angels: no--
  To love as her own Seraph loved,
With Faith, the same thro' bliss and woe--
  Faith that were even its light removed,
Could like the dial fixt remain
And wait till it shone out again;--
With Patience that tho' often bowed
  By the rude storm can rise anew;
And Hope that even from Evil's cloud
  See sunny Good half breaking thro'!
This deep, relying Love, worth more
In heaven than all a Cherub's lore--
This Faith more sure than aught beside
Was the sole joy, ambition, pride
Of her fond heart--the unreasoning scope
  Of all its views, above, below--
So true she felt it that to _hope_,
  To _trust_, is happier than to _know_.
And thus in humbleness they trod,
Abasht but pure before their God;
Nor e'er did earth behold a sight
  So meekly beautiful as they,
When with the altar's holy light
  Full on their brows they knelt to pray,
Hand within hand and side by side,
Two links of love awhile untied
From the great chain above, but fast
Holding together to the last!--
Two fallen Splendors from that tree[19]
Which buds with such eternally,
Shaken to earth yet keeping all
Their light and freshness in the fall.

Their only punishment, (as wrong,
  However sweet, must bear its brand.)
Their only doom was this--that, long
  As the green earth and ocean stand,
They both shall wander here--the same,
Throughout all time, in heart and frame--
Still looking to that goal sublime,
  Whose light remote but sure they see;
Pilgrims of Love whose way is Time,
  Whose home is in Eternity!
Subject the while to all the strife
True Love encounters in this life--
The wishes, hopes, he breathes in vain;
  The chill that turns his warmest sighs
  To earthly vapor ere they rise;
The doubt he feeds on and the pain
  That in his very sweetness lies:--
Still worse, the illusions that betray
  His footsteps to their shining brink;
That tempt him on his desert way
  Thro' the bleak world, to bend and drink,
Where nothing meets his lips, alas!--
But he again must sighing pass
On to that far-off home of peace,
In which alone his thirst will cease.

All this they bear but not the less
Have moments rich in happiness--
Blest meetings, after many a day
Of widowhood past far away,
When the loved face again is seen
Close, close, with not a tear between--
Confidings frank, without control,
Poured mutually from soul to soul;
As free from any fear or doubt
  As is that light from chill or strain
The sun into the stars sheds out
  To be by them shed back again!--
That happy minglement of hearts,
  Where, changed as chymic compounds are,
Each with its own existence parts
  To find a new one, happier far!
Such are their joys--and crowning all
  That blessed hope of the bright hour,
When, happy and no more to fall,
  Their spirits shall with freshened power
Rise up rewarded for their trust
  In Him from whom all goodness springs,
And shaking off earth's soiling dust
  From their emancipated wings,
Wander for ever thro' those skies
Of radiance where Love never dies!

In what lone region of the earth,
  These Pilgrims now may roam or dwell,
God and the Angels who look forth
  To watch their steps, alone can tell.
But should we in our wanderings
  Meet a young pair whose beauty wants
But the adornment of bright wings
  To look like heaven's inhabitants--
Who shine where'er they tread and yet
  Are humble in their earthly lot,
As is the way-side violet,
  That shines unseen, and were it not
  For its sweet breath would be forgot
Whose hearts in every thought are one,
  Whose voices utter the same wills--
Answering, as Echo doth some tone
  Of fairy music 'mong the hills,
So like itself we seek in vain
Which is the echo, which the strain--
Whose piety is love, whose love
  Tho' close as 'twere their souls' embrace.
Is not of earth but from above--
  Like two fair mirrors face to face,
Whose light from one to the other thrown,
Is heaven's reflection, not their own--
Should we e'er meet with aught so pure,
So perfect here, we may be sure
  'Tis ZARAPH and his bride we see;
And call young lovers round to view
The pilgrim pair as they pursue
  Their pathway towards eternity.


[1] "To which will be joined the sound of the bells hanging on the trees,
which will be put in motion by the wind proceeding from the Throne, so
often as the Blessed wish for music."--See _Sale's Koran, Prelim.
Dissert_.

[2] The ancient Persians supposed that this Throne was placed in the Sun,
and that through the stars were distributed the various classes of Angels
that encircled it. The Basilidians supposed that there were three hundred
and sixty-five orders of angels.

[3] It appears that, in most languages, the term employed for an angel
means also a messenger.

[4] The name given by the Mahometans to the infernal regions, over which,
they say, the angel Tabliek presides.

[5] The Kerubilna, as the Mussulmans call them, are often joined
indiscriminately with the Asrafil or Seraphim, under one common name of
Azazil, by which all spirits who approach near the throne of Alla are
designated.

[6] A belief that the stars are either spirits or the vehicles of spirits,
was common to all the religions and heresies of the East. Kircher has
given the names and stations of the seven archangels, who were by the
Cabala of the Jews distributed through the planets.

[7] According to the cosmogony of the ancient Persians, there were four
stars set as sentinels in the four quarters of the heavens, to watch over
the other fixed stars, and superintend the planets in their course. The
names of these four Sentinel stars are, according to the Boundesh,
Taschter, for the east; Satevis, for the west; Venand, for the south; and
Haftorang. for the north.

[8] Chavah, or, as it is Arabic, Havah (the name by which Adam called the
woman after their transgression), means "Life".

[9] Called by the Mussulmans Al Araf--a sort of wall or partition which,
according to the 7th chapter of the Koran, separates hell from paradise,
and where they, who have not merits sufficient to gain them immediate
admittance into heaven, are supposed to stand for a certain period,
alternately tantalized and tormented by the sights that are on either side
presented to them.

[10] I am aware that this happy saying of Lord Albemarle's loses much of
its grace and playfulness, by being put into the mouth of any but a human
lover.

[11] According to Whitehurst's theory, the mention of rainbows by an
antediluvian angel is an anachronism; as he says, "There was no rain
before the flood, and consequently no rainbow, which accounts for the
novelty of this sight after the Deluge."

[12] In acknowledging the authority of the great Prophets who had preceded
him, Mahomet represented his own mission as the final "_Seal_," or
consummation of them all.

[13] The Zodiacal Light.

[14] Pococke, however, gives it as the opinion of the Mahometan doctors,
that all souls, not only of men and of animals, living either on land or
in the sea, but of angels also, must necessarily taste of death.

[15] The Dove, or pigeon which attended Mahomet as his Familiar, and was
frequently seen to whisper into his ear, was, if I recollect right, one of
that select number of animals [including also the ant of Solomon, the dog
of the Seven Sleepers, etc.] which were thought by the Prophet worthy of
admission into Paradise.

[16] "Mohammed [says Sale], though a prophet, was not able to bear the
sight of Gabriel, when he appeared in his proper form, much less would
others be able to support it."

[17] Seth is a favorite personage among the Orientals, and acts a
conspicuous part in many of their most extravagant romances. The Syrians
pretended to have a Testament of this Patriarch in their possession, in
which was explained the whole theology of angels, their different orders,
etc. The Curds, too (as Hyde mentions in his Appendix), have a book, which
contains all the rites of their religion, and which they call Sohuph
Sheit, or the Book of Seth.

[18] The Seraphim, or Spirits of Divine Love.

[19] An allusion to the Sephiroths or Splendors of the Jewish Cabala,
represented as a tree, of which God is the crown or summit.








RHYMES ON THE ROAD.

EXTRACTED FROM THE JOURNAL OF
A TRAVELLING MEMBER OF
THE POCO-CURANTE SOCIETY,

1819.


The greater part of the following Rhymes were written or composed in an
old _caleche_ for the purpose of beguiling the _ennui_ of solitary
travelling; and as verses made by a gentleman in his sleep, have been
lately called "a _psychological_ curiosity," it is to be hoped that
verses, composed by a gentleman to keep himself awake, may be honored with
some appellation equally Greek.






RHYMES ON THE ROAD




INTRODUCTORY RHYMES.


_Different Attitudes in which Authors compose.--Bayes, Henry Stevens,
Herodotus, etc.--Writing in Bed--in the Fields.--Plato and Sir Richard
Blackmore.--Fiddling with Gloves and Twigs.--Madame de Stael.--Rhyming on
the Road, in an old Caleche_.


What various attitudes and ways
  And tricks we authors have in writing!
While some write sitting, some like BAYES
  Usually stand while they're inditing,
Poets there are who wear the floor out,
  Measuring a line at every stride;
While some like HENRY STEPHENS pour out
  Rhymes by the dozen while they ride.
HERODOTUS wrote most in bed;
  And RICHERAND, a French physician,
Declares the clock-work of the head
  Goes best in that reclined position.
If you consult MONTAIGNE and PLINY on
The subject, 'tis their joint opinion
That Thought its richest harvest yields
Abroad among the woods and fields,
That bards who deal in small retail
  At home may at their counters stop;
But that the grove, the hill, the vale,
  Are Poesy's true wholesale shop.
And verily I think they're right--
  For many a time on summer eves,
Just at that closing hour of light,
  When, like an Eastern Prince, who leaves
For distant war his Haram bowers,
The Sun bids farewell to the flowers,
Whose heads are sunk, whose tears are flowing
Mid all the glory of his going!--
Even _I_ have felt, beneath those beams,
  When wandering thro' the fields alone,
Thoughts, fancies, intellectual gleams,
  Which, far too bright to be my own,
Seemed lent me by the Sunny Power
That was abroad at that still hour.

If thus I've felt, how must _they_ feel,
  The few whom genuine Genius warms,
Upon whose soul he stamps his seal,
  Graven with Beauty's countless forms;--
The few upon this earth, who seem
Born to give truth to PLATO'S dream,
Since in their thoughts, as in a glass,
  Shadows of heavenly things appear.
Reflections of bright shapes that pass
  Thro' other worlds, above our sphere!
But this reminds me I digress;--
  For PLATO, too, produced, 'tis said,
(As one indeed might almost guess),
  His glorious visions all in bed.[1]
'Twas in his carriage the sublime
Sir RICHARD BLACKMORE used to rhyme;
  And (if the wits don't do him wrong)
Twixt death and epics past his time,[2]
  Scribbling and killing all day long--
Like Phoebus in his car, at ease,
  Now warbling forth a lofty song,
Now murdering the young Niobes.

There was a hero 'mong the Danes,
Who wrote, we're told, mid all the pains
  And horrors of exenteration,
Nine charming odes, which, if you'll look,
  You'll find preserved with a translation
By BARTHOLINOS in his book.
In short 'twere endless to recite
The various modes in which men write.
Some wits are only in the mind.
  When beaus and belles are round them prating;
Some when they dress for dinner find
  Their muse and valet both in waiting
And manage at the self-same time
To adjust a neckcloth and a rhyme.

Some bards there are who cannot scribble
Without a glove to tear or nibble
Or a small twig to whisk about--
  As if the hidden founts of Fancy,
Like wells of old, were thus found out
  By mystic trick of rhabdomancy.
Such was the little feathery wand,[3]
That, held for ever in the hand
Of her who won and wore the crown[4]
  Of female genius in this age,
Seemed the conductor that drew down
  Those words of lightning to her page.

As for myself--to come, at last,
  To the odd way in which _I_ write--
Having employ'd these few months past
  Chiefly in travelling, day and night,
I've got into the easy mode
Of rhyming thus along the road--
Making a way-bill of my pages,
Counting my stanzas by my stages--
'Twixt lays and _re_-lays no time lost--
In short, in two words, _writing post_.


[1] The only authority I know for imputing this practice to Plato and
Herodotus, is a Latin poem by M. de Valois on his Bed, in which he says:--

_Lucifer Herodotum vidit Vesperque cubantem, desedit totos heic Plato
saepe dies_.

[2] Sir Richard Blackmore was a physician, as well as a bad poet.

[3] Made of paper, twisted up like a fan or feather.

[4] Madame de Stael.






EXTRACT I.

Geneva.


_View of the Lake of Geneva from the Jura.[1]--Anxious to reach it
before the Sun went down.--Obliged to proceed on Foot.--Alps.--Mont
Blanc.--Effect of the Scene_.


'Twas late--the sun had almost shone
His last and best when I ran on
Anxious to reach that splendid view
Before the daybeams quite withdrew
And feeling as all feel on first
  Approaching scenes where, they are told,
Such glories on their eyes will burst
  As youthful bards in dreams behold.

'Twas distant yet and as I ran
  Full often was my wistful gaze
Turned to the sun who now began
  To call in all his out-posts rays,
And form a denser march of light,
Such as beseems a hero's flight.
Oh, how I wisht for JOSHUA'S power,
To stay the brightness of that hour?
But no--the sun still less became,
  Diminisht to a speck as splendid
And small as were those tongues of flame,
  That on the Apostles' heads descended!

'Twas at this instant--while there glowed
  This last, intensest gleam of light--
Suddenly thro' the opening road
  The valley burst upon my sight!
That glorious valley with its Lake
  And Alps on Alps in clusters swelling,
Mighty and pure and fit to make
  The ramparts of a Godhead's dwelling.

I stood entranced--as Rabbins say
  This whole assembled, gazing world
Will stand, upon that awful day,
  When the Ark's Light aloft unfurled
Among the opening clouds shall shine,
Divinity's own radiant sign!

Mighty MONT BLANC, thou wert to me
  That minute, with thy brow in heaven,
As sure a sign of Deity
  As e'er to mortal gaze was given.
Nor ever, were I destined yet
  To live my life twice o'er again,
Can I the deep-felt awe forget,
  The dream, the trance that rapt me then!

'Twas all that consciousness of power
And life, beyond this mortal hour;--
Those mountings of the soul within
At thoughts of Heaven--as birds begin
By instinct in the cage to rise,
When near their time for change of skies;--
That proud assurance of our claim
  To rank among the Sons of Light,
Mingled with shame--oh bitter shame!--
  At having riskt that splendid right,
For aught that earth thro' all its range
Of glories offers in exchange!
'Twas all this, at that instant brought
Like breaking sunshine o'er my thought--
'Twas all this, kindled to a glow
  Of sacred zeal which could it shine
Thus purely ever man might grow,
  Even upon earth a thing divine,
And be once more the creature made
To walk unstained the Elysian shade!

No, never shall I lose the trace
Of what I've felt in this bright place.
And should my spirit's hope grow weak,
  Should I, oh God! e'er doubt thy power,
This mighty scene again I'll seek,
  At the same calm and glowing hour,
And here at the sublimest shrine
  That Nature ever reared to Thee
Rekindle all that hope divine
  And _feel_ my immortality!


[1] Between Vattay and Gex.






EXTRACT II.

Geneva.

FATE OF GENEVA IN THE YEAR 1782.

A FRAGMENT.


Yes--if there yet live some of those,
Who, when this small Republic rose,
Quick as a startled hive of bees,
Against her leaguering enemies--[1]
When, as the Royal Satrap shook
  His well-known fetters at her gates,
Even wives and mothers armed and took
  Their stations by their sons and mates;
And on these walls there stood--yet, no,
  Shame to the traitors--_would_ have stood
As firm a band as e'er let flow
  At Freedom's base their sacred blood;
If those yet live, who on that night
When all were watching, girt for fight,
Stole like the creeping of a pest
From rank to rank, from breast to breast,
Filling the weak, the old with fears,
Turning the heroine's zeal to tears,--
Betraying Honor to that brink,
Where, one step more, and he must sink--
And quenching hopes which tho' the last,
Like meteors on a drowning mast,
Would yet have led to death more bright,
Than life e'er lookt, in all its light!
Till soon, too soon, distrust, alarms
  Throughout the embattled thousands ran,
And the high spirit, late in arms,
The zeal that might have workt such charms,
  Fell like a broken talisman--
Their gates, that they had sworn should be
  The gates of Death, that very dawn,
Gave passage widely, bloodlessly,
  To the proud foe--nor sword was drawn,
Nor even one martyred body cast
To stain their footsteps, as they past;
But of the many sworn at night
To do or die, some fled the sight,
Some stood to look with sullen frown,
  While some in impotent despair
Broke their bright armor and lay down,
  Weeping, upon the fragments there!--
If those, I say, who brought that shame,
That blast upon GENEVA'S name
Be living still--tho' crime so dark
  Shall hang up, fixt and unforgiven,
In History's page, the eternal mark
  For Scorn to pierce--so help me, Heaven,
I wish the traitorous slaves no worse,
  No deeper, deadlier disaster
From all earth's ills no fouler curse
  Than to have *********** their master!


[1] In the year 1782, when the forces of Berne, Sardinia, and France laid
siege to Geneva, and when, after a demonstration of heroism and
self-devotion, which promised to rival the feats of their ancestors in
1602 against Savoy, the Genevans, either panic-struck or betrayed, to the
surprise of all Europe, opened their gates to the besiegers, and submitted
without a struggle to the extinction of their liberties--See an account of
this Revolution in Coxe's Switzerland.






EXTRACT III.

Geneva.

_Fancy and Truth--Hippomenes and Atalanta. Mont Blanc.--Clouds_.


Even here in this region of wonders I find
That light-footed Fancy leaves Truth far behind;
Or at least like Hippomenes turns her astray
By the golden illusions he flings in her way.

What a glory it seemed the first evening I gazed!
MONT BLANC like a vision then suddenly raised
On the wreck of the sunset--and all his array
  Of high-towering Alps, touched still with a light
Far holier, purer than that of the Day,
  As if nearness to Heaven had made them so bright!
Then the dying at last of these splendors away
From peak after peak, till they left but a ray,
One roseate ray, that, too precious to fly,
  O'er the Mighty of Mountains still glowingly hung,
Like the last sunny step of ASTRAEA, when high,
  From the summit of earth to Elysium she sprung!
And those infinite Alps stretching out from the sight
Till they mingled with Heaven, now shorn of their light,
Stood lofty and lifeless and pale in the sky,
Like the ghosts of a Giant Creation gone by!

That scene--I have viewed it this evening again,
By the same brilliant light that hung over it then--
The valley, the lake in their tenderest charms--
  MONT BLANC in his awfullest pomp--and the whole
A bright picture of Beauty, reclined in the arms
  Of Sublimity, bridegroom elect of her soul!
But where are the mountains that round me at first
One dazzling horizon of miracles burst?
Those Alps beyond Alps, without end swelling on
Like the waves of eternity--where are _they_ gone?
Clouds--clouds--they were nothing but clouds, after all![1]
  That chain of MONT BLANC'S, which my fancy flew o'er,
With a wonder that naught on this earth can recall,
  Were but clouds of the evening and now are no more.

What a picture of Life's young illusions! Oh, Night,
Drop thy curtain at once and hide _all_ from my sight.


[1] It is often very difficult to distinguish between clouds and
Alps; and on the evening when I first saw this magnificent scene, the
clouds were so disposed along the whole horizon, as to deceive me into an
idea of the stupendous extent of these mountains, which my subsequent
observation was very far, of course, from confirming.






EXTRACT IV.

Milan.


_The Picture Gallery.--Albano's Rape of Proserpine.--Reflections.--
Universal Salvation.--Abraham sending away Agar, by Guercino.--Genius_.


Went to the _Brera_--saw a Dance of Loves
  By smooth ALBANO! him whose pencil teems
With Cupids numerous as in summer groves
  The leaflets are or motes in summer beams.

'Tis for the theft of Enna's flower from earth,
These urchins celebrate their dance of mirth
Round the green tree, like fays upon a heath--
  Those that are nearest linkt in order bright,
Cheek after cheek, like rose-buds in a wreath;
And those more distant showing from beneath
  The others' wings their little eyes of light.
While see! among the clouds, their eldest brother
  But just flown up tells with a smile of bliss
This prank of Pluto to his charmed mother
  Who turns to greet the tidings with a kiss!

Well might the Loves rejoice--and well did they
  Who wove these fables picture in their weaving
That blessed truth, (which in a darker day
  ORIGEN lost his saintship for believing,[1])--
That Love, eternal Love, whose fadeless ray
  Nor time nor death nor sin can overcast,
Even to the depths of hell will find his way,
  And soothe and heal and triumph there at last!
GUERCINO'S Agar--where the bondmaid hears
  From Abram's lips that he and she must part,
And looks at him with eyes all full of tears
  That seem the very last drops from her heart.
Exquisite picture!--let me not be told
Of minor faults, of coloring tame and cold--
If thus to conjure up a face so fair,[2]
So full of sorrow; with the story there
Of all that woman suffers when the stay
Her trusting heart hath leaned on falls away--
If thus to touch the bosom's tenderest spring,
By calling into life such eyes as bring
Back to our sad remembrance some of those
We've smiled and wept with in their joys and woes,
Thus filling them with tears, like tears we've known,
Till all the pictured grief becomes our own--
If _this_ be deemed the victory of Art--
  If thus by pen or pencil to lay bare
The deep, fresh, living fountains of the heart
  Before all eyes be Genius--it is _there_!


[1] The extension of the Divine Love ultimately even to the
regions of the damned.

[2] It is probable that this fine head is a portrait, as we find
it repeated in a picture by Guercino, which is in the possession of Signor
Carnuccini, the brother of the celebrated painter at Rome.






EXTRACT V.

Padua.


_Fancy and Reality.--Rain-drops and Lakes.--Plan of a Story.--Where to
place the Scene of it.--In some unknown Region.--Psalmanazar's Imposture
with respect to the Island of Formosa_.


The more I've viewed this world the more I've found,
  That, filled as 'tis with scenes and creatures rare.
Fancy commands within her own bright round
  A world of scenes and creatures far more fair.
Nor is it that her power can call up there
  A single charm, that's not from Nature won,
No more than rainbows in their pride can wear
  A single hue unborrowed from the sun--
But 'tis the mental medium it shines thro'
That lends to Beauty all its charm and hue;
As the same light that o'er the level lake
  One dull monotony of lustre flings,
Will, entering in the rounded raindrop, make
  Colors as gay as those on Peris' wings!

  And such, I deem, the difference between real,
Existing Beauty and that form ideal
Which she assumes when seen by poets' eyes,
Like sunshine in the drop--with all those dyes
Which Fancy's variegating prism supples.

I have a story of two lovers, filled
  With all the pure romance, the blissful sadness,
And the sad, doubtful bliss that ever thrilled
  Two young and longing hearts in that sweet madness.
But where to choose the region of my vision
  In this wide, vulgar world--what real spot
Can be found out sufficiently Elysian
  For two such perfect lovers I know not.
Oh for some fair FORMOSA, such as he,
The young Jew fabled of, in the Indian Sea,
By nothing but its name of Beauty known,
And which Queen Fancy might make all her own,
Her fairy kingdom--take its people, lands,
And tenements into her own bright hands,
And make at least one earthly corner fit
For Love to live in, pure and exquisite!






EXTRACT VI.

Venice.


_The Fall of Venice not to be lamented--Former Glory.--Expedition
against Constantinople.--Giustinianis.--Republic.--Characteristics of the
old Government.--Golden Book.--Brazen Mouths.--Spies.--Dungeons.--Present
Desolation_.


Mourn not for VENICE--let her rest
In ruin, 'mong those States unblest,
Beneath whose gilded hoofs of pride,
Where'er they trampled, Freedom died.
No--let us keep our tears for them,
  Where'er they pine, whose fall hath been
Not from a blood-stained diadem,
  Like that which deckt this ocean-queen,
But from high daring in the cause
  Of human Rights--the only good
And blessed strife, in which man draws
  His mighty sword on land or flood.

Mourn not for VENICE; tho' her fall
  Be awful, as if Ocean's wave
Swept o'er her, she deserves it all,
  And Justice triumphs o'er her grave.
Thus perish every King and State
  That run the guilty race she ran,
Strong but in ill and only great
  By outrage against God and man!

True, her high spirit is at rest,
  And all those days of glory gone,
When the world's waters, east and west,
  Beneath her white-winged commerce shone;
When with her countless barks she went
  To meet the Orient Empire's might.[1]
And her Giustinianis sent
  Their hundred heroes to that fight.

Vanisht are all her pomps, 'tis true,
But mourn them not--for vanisht too
  (Thanks to that Power, who soon or late,
  Hurls to the dust the guilty Great,)
Are all the outrage, falsehood, fraud,
  The chains, the rapine, and the blood,
That filled each spot, at home, abroad,
  Where the Republic's standard stood.
Desolate VENICE! when I track
Thy haughty course thro' centuries back;
Thy ruthless power, obeyed but curst--
  The stern machinery of thy State,
Which hatred would, like steam, have burst,
  Had stronger fear not chilled even hate;--
Thy perfidy, still worse than aught
Thy own unblushing SARPI[2] taught;--
Thy friendship which, o'er all beneath
Its shadow, rained down dews of death;[3]--
Thy Oligarchy's Book of Gold,
  Closed against humble Virtue's name,
But opened wide for slaves who sold
  Their native land to thee and shame;[4]--
Thy all-pervading host of spies
  Watching o'er every glance and breath,
Till men lookt in each others' eyes,
  To read their chance of life or death;--
Thy laws that made a mart of blood,
  And legalized the assassin's knife;[5]--
Thy sunless cells beneath the flood,
  And racks and Leads that burnt out life;--

When I review all this and see
The doom that now hath fallen on thee;
Thy nobles, towering once so proud,
Themselves beneath the yoke now bowed,--
A yoke by no one grace redeemed,
Such as of old around thee beamed,
But mean and base as e'er yet galled
Earth's tyrants when themselves enthralled,--
I feel the moral vengeance sweet.
And smiling o'er the wreck repeat:--
"Thus perish every King and State
  "That tread the steps which VENICE trod,
"Strong but in ill and only great,
  "By outrage against man and God!"


[1] Under the Doge Michaeli, in 1171.

[2] The celebrated Fra Paolo. The collections of Maxims which this bold
monk drew up at the request of the Venetian Government, for the guidance
of the Secret Inquisition of State, are so atrocious as to seem rather an
over-charged satire upon despotism, than a system of policy, seriously
inculcated, and but too readily and constantly pursued.

[3] Conduct of Venice towards her allies and dependencies, particularly to
unfortunate Padua.

[4] Among those admitted to the honor of being inscribed in the _Libro
d'oro_ were some families of Brescia, Treviso, and other places, whose
only claim to that distinction was the zeal with which they prostrated
themselves and their country at the feet of the republic.

[5] By the infamous statutes of the State Inquisition, not only was
assassination recognized as a regular mode of punishment, but this secret
power over life was delegated to their minions at a distance, with nearly
as much facility as a licence is given under the game laws of England. The
only restriction seems to have been the necessity of applying for a new
certificate, after every individual exercise of the power.






EXTRACT VII.

Venice.


_Lord Byron's Memoirs, written by himself.--Reflections, when about to
read them_.


Let me a moment--ere with fear and hope
Of gloomy, glorious things, these leaves I ope--
As one in fairy tale to whom the key
  Of some enchanter's secret halls is given,
Doubts while he enters slowly, tremblingly,
  If he shall meet with shapes from hell or heaven--
Let me a moment think what thousands live
O'er the wide earth this instant who would give,
Gladly, whole sleepless nights to bend the brow
Over these precious leaves, as I do now.

How all who know--and where is he unknown?
To what far region have his songs not flown,
Like PSAPHON'S birds[1] speaking their master's name,
In every language syllabled by Fame?--
How all who've felt the various spells combined
Within the circle of that mastermind,--
Like spells derived from many a star and met
Together in some wondrous amulet,--
Would burn to know when first the Light awoke
In his young soul,--and if the gleams that broke
From that Aurora of his genius, raised
Most pain or bliss in those on whom they blazed;
Would love to trace the unfolding of that power,
Which had grown ampler, grander, every hour;
And feel in watching o'er his first advance
  As did the Egyptian traveller[2] when he stood
By the young Nile and fathomed with his lance
  The first small fountains of that mighty flood.

They too who mid the scornful thoughts that dwell
  In his rich fancy, tingeing all its streams,--
As if the Star of Bitterness which fell
  On earth of old,[3] had touched them with its beams,--
Can track a spirit which tho' driven to hate,
From Nature's hands came kind, affectionate;
And which even now, struck as it is with blight,
Comes out at times in love's own native light;--
How gladly all who've watched these struggling rays
Of a bright, ruined spirit thro' his lays,
Would here inquire, as from his own frank lips,
  What desolating grief, what wrongs had driven
That noble nature into cold eclipse;
  Like some fair orb that, once a sun in heaven.
And born not only to surprise but cheer
With warmth and lustre all within its sphere,
Is now so quenched that of its grandeur lasts
Naught but the wide, cold shadow which it casts.

Eventful volume! whatsoe'er the change
Of scene and clime--the adventures bold and strange--
The griefs--the frailties but too frankly told--
The loves, the feuds thy pages may unfold,
If Truth with half so prompt a hand unlocks
  His virtues as his failings, we shall find
The record there of friendships held like rocks,
  And enmities like sun-touched snow resigned;
Of fealty, cherisht without change or chill,
In those who served him, young, and serve him still;
Of generous aid given, with that noiseless art
Which wakes not pride, to many a wounded heart;
Of acts--but, no--_not_ from himself must aught
Of the bright features of his life be sought.

While they who court the world, like Milton's cloud,
"Turn forth their silver lining" on the crowd,
This gifted Being wraps himself in night;
  And keeping all that softens and adorns
And gilds his social nature hid from sight,
  Turns but its darkness on a world he scorns.


[1] Psaphon, in order to attract the attention of the world, taught
multitudes of birds to speak his name, and then let them fly away in
various directions; whence the proverb, "Psaphonis aves."

[2] Bruce.

[3] "And the name of the star is called Wormwood, and the third part of
the waters became wormwood."--_Rev_. viii.






EXTRACT VIII.

Venice.


_Female Beauty at Venice.--No longer what it was in the time of Titian.--
His mistress.--Various Forms in which he has painted her.--Venus.--Divine
and profane Love.--La Fragilita d'Amore--Paul Veronese.--His Women.--
Marriage of Cana.--Character of Italian Beauty.--Raphael's Fornarina.--
Modesty_.


Thy brave, thy learned have passed away:
Thy beautiful!--ah, where are they?
The forms, the faces that once shone,
  Models of grace, in Titian's eye,
Where are they now, while flowers live on
  In ruined places, why, oh! why
  Must Beauty thus with Glory die?
That maid whose lips would still have moved,
  Could art have breathed a spirit through them;
Whose varying charms her artist loved
  More fondly every time he drew them,
(So oft beneath his touch they past,
Each semblance fairer than the last);
Wearing each shape that Fancy's range
  Offers to Love--yet still the one
Fair idol seen thro' every change,
  Like facets of some orient stone,--
  In each the same bright image shown.
Sometimes a Venus, unarrayed
  But in her beauty[1]--sometimes deckt
In costly raiment, as a maid
  That kings might for a throne select.[2]
Now high and proud, like one who thought
The world should at her feet be brought;
Now with a look reproachful sad,[3]--
Unwonted look from brow so glad,--
And telling of a pain too deep
For tongue to speak or eyes to weep.
Sometimes thro' allegory's veil,
  In double semblance seemed to shine,
Telling a strange and mystic tale
  Of Love Profane and Love Divine[4]--
Akin in features, but in heart
As far as earth and heaven apart.
Or else (by quaint device to prove
The frailty of all worldly love)
Holding a globe of glass as thin
  As air-blown bubbles in her hand,
With a young Love confined therein,
  Whose wings seem waiting to expand--
And telling by her anxious eyes
That if that frail orb break he flies.[5]

Thou too with touch magnificent,
PAUL of VERONA!--where are they?
The oriental forms[6] that lent
Thy canvas such a bright array?
Noble and gorgeous dames whose dress
Seems part of their own loveliness;
Like the sun's drapery which at eve
The floating clouds around him weave
Of light they from himself receive!
Where is there now the living face
  Like those that in thy nuptial throng[7]
By their superb, voluptuous grace,
Make us forget the time, the place,
  The holy guests they smile among,--
Till in that feast of heaven-sent wine
We see no miracles but thine.

If e'er, except in Painting's dream,
There bloomed such beauty here, 'tis gone,--
Gone like the face that in the stream
  Of Ocean for an instant shone,
When Venus at that mirror gave
A last look ere she left the wave.
And tho', among the crowded ways,
We oft are startled by the blaze
  Of eyes that pass with fitful light.
Like fire-flies on the wing at night[8]
'Tis not that nobler beauty given
To show how angels look in heaven.
Even in its shape most pure and fair,
'Tis Beauty with but half her zone,
All that can warm the sense is there,
  But the Soul's deeper charm has flown:--
'Tis RAPHAEL's Fornarina,--warm,
  Luxuriant, arch, but unrefined;
A flower round which the noontide swarm
  Of young Desires may buzz and wind,
But where true Love no treasure meets
Worth hoarding in his hive of sweets.

Ah no,--for this and for the hue
  Upon the rounded cheek, which tells
How fresh within the heart this dew
  Of love's unrifled sweetness dwells,
We must go back to our own Isles,
  Where Modesty, which here but gives
A rare and transient grace to smiles,
  In the heart's holy centre lives;
And thence as from her throne diffuses
  O'er thoughts and looks so bland a reign,
That not a thought or feeling loses
  Its freshness in that gentle chain.


[1] In the Tribune at Florence.

[2] In the Palazzo Pitti.

[3] Alludes particularly to the portrait of her in the Sciarra collection
at Rome, where the look of mournful reproach in those full, shadowy eyes,
as if she had been unjustly accused of something wrong, is exquisite.

[4] The fine picture in the Palazzo Borghese, called (it is not easy to
say why) "Sacred and Profane Love," in which the two figures, sitting on
the edge of the fountain, are evidently portraits of the same person.

[5] This fanciful allegory is the subject of a picture by Titian in the
possession of the Marquis Cambian at Turin, whose collection, though
small, contains some beautiful specimens of all the great masters.

[6] As Paul Veronese gave but little into the _beau ideal_, his women
may be regarded as pretty close imitations of the living models which
Venice afforded in his time.

[7] The Marriage of Cana.

[8] "Certain it is [as Arthur Young truly and feelingly says] one now and
then meets with terrible eyes in Italy."






EXTRACT IX.

Venice.


_The English to be met with everywhere.--Alps and Threadneedle
Street.--The Simplon and the Stocks.--Rage for travelling.--Blue Stockings
among the Wahabees.--Parasols and Pyramids.--Mrs. Hopkins and the Wall of
China_.


And is there then no earthly place,
  Where we can rest in dream Elysian,
Without some curst, round English face,
  Popping up near to break the vision?
Mid northern lakes, mid southern vines,
  Unholy cits we're doomed to meet;
Nor highest Alps nor Apennines
  Are sacred from Threadneedle Street!

If up the Simplon's path we wind,
Fancying we leave this world behind,
Such pleasant sounds salute one's ear
As--"Baddish news from 'Change, my dear--
"The funds--(phew I curse this ugly hill)--
"Are lowering fast--(what, higher still?)--
"And--(zooks, we're mounting up to heaven!)--
"Will soon be down to sixty-seven."

Go where we may--rest where we will.
Eternal London haunts us still.
The trash of Almack's or Fleet Ditch--
And scarce a pin's head difference _which_--
Mixes, tho' even to Greece we run,
With every rill from Helicon!
And if this rage for travelling lasts,
If Cockneys of all sects and castes,
Old maidens, aldermen, and squires,
_Will_ leave their puddings and coal fires,
To gape at things in foreign lands
No soul among them understands;
If Blues desert their coteries,
To show off 'mong the Wahabees;
If neither sex nor age controls,
  Nor fear of Mamelukes forbids
Young ladies with pink parasols
  To glide among the Pyramids--

Why, then, farewell all hope to find
A spot that's free from London-kind!
Who knows, if to the West we roam,
But we may find some _Blue_ "at home"
  Among the Blacks of Carolina--
Or flying to the Eastward see
Some Mrs. HOPKINS taking tea
  And toast upon the Wall of China!






EXTRACT X.

Mantua.


_Verses of Hippolyta to her Husband_.


They tell me thou'rt the favored guest
  Of every fair and brilliant throng;
No wit like thine to wake the jest,
  No voice like thine to breathe the song.
And none could guess, so gay thou art,
That thou and I are far apart.
Alas, alas! how different flows,
  With thee and me the time away!
Not that I wish thee sad, heaven knows--
  Still if thou canst, be light and gay;
I only know that without thee
The sun himself is dark for me.

Do I put on the jewels rare
Thou'st always loved to see me wear?
Do I perfume the locks that thou
So oft hast braided o'er my brow,
Thus deckt thro' festive crowds to run,
  And all the assembled world to see,--
All but the one, the absent one,
  Worth more than present worlds to me!
No, nothing cheers this widowed heart--
My only joy from thee apart,
From thee thyself, is sitting hours
  And days before thy pictured form--
That dream of thee, which Raphael's powers
  Have made with all but life-breath warm!
And as I smile to it, and say
The words I speak to thee in play,
I fancy from their silent frame,
Those eyes and lips give back the same:
And still I gaze, and still they keep
Smiling thus on me--till I weep!
Our little boy too knows it well,
  For there I lead him every day
And teach his lisping lips to tell
  The name of one that's far away.
Forgive me, love, but thus alone
My time is cheered while thou art gone.






EXTRACT XI.

Florence.


No--'tis not the region where Love's to be found--
  They have bosoms that sigh, they have glances that rove,
They have language a Sappho's own lip might resound,
  When she warbled her best--but they've nothing like Love.

Nor is't that pure _sentiment_ only they want,
  Which Heaven for the mild and the tranquil hath made--
Calm, wedded affection, that home-rooted plant
  Which sweetens seclusion and smiles in the shade;

That feeling which, after long years have gone by,
  Remains like a portrait we've sat for in youth,
Where, even tho' the flush of the colors may fly,
  The features still live in their first smiling truth;

That union where all that in Woman is kind,
  With all that in Man most ennoblingly towers,
Grow wreathed into one--like the column, combined
  Of the _strength_ of the shaft and the capital's _flowers_.

Of this--bear ye witness, ye wives, everywhere,
  By the ARNO, the PO, by all ITALY'S streams--
Of this heart-wedded love, so delicious to share,
  Not a husband hath even one glimpse in his dreams.

But it _is_ not this only;--born full of the light
  Of a sun from whose fount the luxuriant festoons
Of these beautiful valleys drink lustre so bright
  That beside him our suns of the north are but moons,--

We might fancy at least, like their climate they burned;
  And that Love tho' unused in this region of spring
To be thus to a tame Household Deity turned,
  Would yet be all soul when abroad on the wing.

And there _may_ be, there _are_ those explosions of heart
  Which burst when the senses have first caught the flame;
Such fits of the blood as those climates impart,
  Where Love is a sun-stroke that maddens the frame.

But that Passion which springs in the depth of the soul;
  Whose beginnings are virginly pure as the source
Of some small mountain rivulet destined to roll
  As a torrent ere long, losing peace in its course--

A course to which Modesty's struggle but lends
  A more headlong descent without chance of recall;
But which Modesty even to the last edge attends,
  And then throws a halo of tears round its fall!

This exquisite Passion--ay, exquisite, even
  Mid the ruin its madness too often hath made,
As it keeps even then a bright trace of the heaven,
  That heaven of Virtue from which it has strayed--

This entireness of love which can only be found,
Where Woman like something that's holy, watched over,
And fenced from her childhood with purity round,
Comes body and soul fresh as Spring to a lover!

Where not an eye answers, where not a hand presses,
Till spirit with spirit in sympathy move;
And the Senses asleep in their sacred recesses
Can only be reached thro' the temple of Love!--

This perfection of Passion-how can it be found,
Where the mystery Nature hath hung round the tie
By which souls are together attracted and bound,
Is laid open for ever to heart,
ear and eye;--

Where naught of that innocent doubt can exist,
That ignorance even than knowledge more bright,
Which circles the young like the morn's sunny mist,
And curtains them round in their own native light;--

Where Experience leaves nothing for Love to reveal,
Or for Fancy in visions to gleam o'er the thought:
But the truths which alone we would die to conceal
From the maiden's young heart are the only ones taught.

No, no, 'tis not here, howsoever we sigh,
Whether purely to Hymen's one planet we pray,
Or adore, like Sabaeans, each light of Love's sky,
Here is not the region to fix or to stray.

For faithless in wedlock, in gallantry gross,
Without honor to guard, to reserve, to restrain,
What have they a husband can mourn as a loss?
What have they a lover can prize as a gain?






EXTRACT XII.

Florence.


_Music in Italy.--Disappointed by it.--Recollections or other Times and
Friends.--Dalton.--Sir John Stevenson.--His Daughter.--Musical Evenings
together_.


If it be true that Music reigns,
  Supreme, in ITALY'S soft shades,
'Tis like that Harmony so famous,
Among the spheres, which He of SAMOS
Declared had such transcendent merit
That not a soul on earth could hear it;
For, far as I have come--from Lakes,
Whose sleep the Tramontana breaks,
Thro' MILAN and that land which gave
The Hero of the rainbow vest[1]--
By MINCIO'S banks, and by that wave,
Which made VERONA'S bard so blest--
Places that (like the Attic shore,
Which rung back music when the sea
Struck on its marge) should be all o'er
Thrilling alive with melody--
I've heard no music--not a note
Of such sweet native airs as float
In my own land among the throng
And speak our nation's soul for song.

Nay, even in higher walks, where Art
Performs, as 'twere, the gardener's part,
And richer if not sweeter makes
The flowers she from the wild-hedge takes--
Even there, no voice hath charmed my ear,
  No taste hath won my perfect praise,
Like thine, dear friend[2]--long, truly dear--
  Thine, and thy loved OLIVIA'S lays.
She, always beautiful, and growing
  Still more so every note she sings--
Like an inspired young Sibyl,[3] glowing
  With her own bright imaginings!
And thou, most worthy to be tied
  In music to her, as in love,
Breathing that language by her side,
  All other language far above,
Eloquent Song--whose tones and words
In every heart find answering chords!

How happy once the hours we past,
  Singing or listening all daylong,
Till Time itself seemed changed at last
  To music, and we lived in song!
Turning the leaves of HAYDN o'er,
  As quick beneath her master hand
They opened all their brilliant store,
  Like chambers, touched by fairy wand;
Or o'er the page of MOZART bending,
  Now by his airy warblings cheered,
Now in his mournful _Requiem_ blending
  Voices thro' which the heart was heard.
And still, to lead our evening choir,
Was He invoked, thy loved-one's Sire[4]--
He who if aught of grace there be
  In the wild notes I write or sing,
First smoothed their links of harmony,
  And lent them charms they did not bring;--
He, of the gentlest, simplest heart,
With whom, employed in his sweet art,
(That art which gives this world of ours
  A notion how they speak in heaven.)
I've past more bright and charmed hours
  Than all earth's wisdom could have given.
Oh happy days, oh early friends,
  How Life since then hath lost its flowers!
But yet--tho' Time _some_ foliage rends,
  The stem, the Friendship, still is ours;
And long may it endure, as green
And fresh as it hath always been!

How I have wandered from my theme!
  But where is he, that could return
To such cold subjects from a dream,
  Thro' which these best of feelings burn?--
Not all the works of Science, Art,
  Or Genius in this world are worth
One genuine sigh that from the heart
  Friendship or Love draws freshly forth.


[1] Bermago--the birthplace, it is said, of Harlequin.

[2] Edward Tuite Dalton, the first husband of Sir John Stevenson's
daughter, the late Marchioness of Headfort.

[3] Such as those of Domenichino in the Palazza Borghese, at the
Capitol, etc.

[4] Sir John Stevenson.






EXTRACT XIII.

Rome.


_Reflections on reading Du Cerceau's Account of the Conspiracy of
Rienzi, in 1347.--The Meeting of the Conspirators on the Night of the 19th
of May.--Their Procession in the Morning to the Capitol.--Rienzi's
Speech_.


'Twas a proud moment--even to hear the words
  Of Truth and Freedom mid these temples breathed,
And see once more the Forum shine with swords
  In the Republic's sacred name unsheathed--
That glimpse, that vision of a brighter day
  For his dear ROME, must to a Roman be,
Short as it was, worth ages past away
  In the dull lapse of hopeless slavery.

'Twas on a night of May, beneath that moon
Which had thro' many an age seen Time untune
The strings of this Great Empire, till it fell
From his rude hands, a broken, silent shell--
The sound of the church clock near ADRIAN'S Tomb
Summoned the warriors who had risen for ROME,
To meet unarmed,--with none to watch them there,
But God's own eye,--and pass the night in prayer.
Holy beginning of a holy cause,
When heroes girt for Freedom's combat pause
Before high Heaven, and humble in their might
Call down its blessing on that coming fight.

At dawn, in arms went forth the patriot band;
And as the breeze, fresh from the TIBER, fanned
Their gilded gonfalons, all eyes could see
  The palm-tree there, the sword, the keys of Heaven--
Types of the justice, peace and liberty,
  That were to bless them when their chains were riven.
On to the Capitol the pageant moved,
  While many a Shade of other times, that still
Around that grave of grandeur sighing roved,
  Hung o'er their footsteps up the Sacred Hill
And heard its mournful echoes as the last
High-minded heirs of the Republic past.
'Twas then that thou, their Tribune,[1] (name which brought
Dreams of lost glory to each patriot's thought,)
Didst, with a spirit Rome in vain shall seek
To wake up in her sons again, thus speak:--
"ROMANS, look round you--on this sacred place
  "There once stood shrines and gods and godlike men.
"What see you now? what solitary trace
  "Is left of all that made ROME'S glory then?
"The shrines are sunk, the Sacred Mount bereft
  "Even of its name--and nothing now remains
"But the deep memory of that glory, left
  "To whet our pangs and aggravate our chains!
"But _shall_ this be?--our sun and sky the same,--
  "Treading the very soil our fathers trod,--
"What withering curse hath fallen on soul and frame,
  "What visitation hath there come from God
"To blast our strength and rot us into slaves,
"_Here_ on our great forefathers' glorious graves?
"It cannot be--rise up, ye Mighty Dead,--
  "If we, the living, are too weak to crush
"These tyrant priests that o'er your empire tread,
  "Till all but Romans at Rome's tameness blush!

"Happy, PALMYRA, in thy desert domes
  "Where only date-trees sigh and serpents hiss;
"And thou whose pillars are but silent homes
  "For the stork's brood, superb PERSEPOLIS!
"Thrice happy both, that your extinguisht race
"Have left no embers--no half-living trace--
"No slaves to crawl around the once proud spot,
"Till past renown in present shame's forgot.
"While ROME, the Queen of all, whose very wrecks,
  "If lone and lifeless thro' a desert hurled,
"Would wear more true magnificence than decks
  "The assembled thrones of all the existing world--
"ROME, ROME alone, is haunted, stained and curst,
  "Thro' every spot her princely TIBER laves,
"By living human things--the deadliest, worst,
  "This earth engenders--tyrants and their slaves!
"And we--oh shame!--we who have pondered o'er
  "The patriot's lesson and the poet's lay;[2]
"Have mounted up the streams of ancient lore,
  "Tracking our country's glories all the way--
"Even _we_ have tamely, basely kist the ground
  "Before that Papal Power,--that Ghost of Her,
"The World's Imperial Mistress--sitting crowned
  "And ghastly on her mouldering sepulchre![3]
"But this is past:--too long have lordly priests
  "And priestly lords led us, with all our pride
"Withering about us--like devoted beasts,
  "Dragged to the shrine, with faded garlands tied.
"'Tis o'er--the dawn of our deliverance breaks!
"Up from his sleep of centuries awakes
"The Genius of the Old Republic, free
"As first he stood, in chainless majesty,
"And sends his voice thro' ages yet to come,
"Proclaiming ROME, ROME, ROME, Eternal ROME!"


[1] Rienzi.

[2] The fine Canzone of Petrarch, beginning _"Spirto gentil,"_ is
supposed, by Voltaire and others, to have been addressed to Rienzi; but
there is much more evidence of its having been written, as Ginguene
asserts, to the young Stephen Colonna, on his being created a Senator of
Rome.

[3] This image is borrowed from Hobbes, whose words are, as near as I can
recollect:--"For what is the Papacy, but the Ghost of the old Roman
Empire, sitting crowned on the grave thereof?"




EXTRACT XIV.

Rome.


_Fragment of a Dream.--The great Painters supposed to be Magicians.--The
Beginnings of the Art.--Gildings on the Glories and Draperies.--
Improvements under Giotto, etc.--The first Dawn of the true Style in
Masaccio.--Studied by all the great Artists who followed him.--Leonardo da
Vinci, with whom commenced the Golden Age of Painting.--His Knowledge of
Mathematics and of Music.--His female heads all like each other.--
Triangular Faces.--Portraits of Mona Lisa, etc.--Picture of Vanity and
Modesty.--His_ chef-d'oeuvre, _the Last Supper.--Faded and almost
effaced_.


Filled with the wonders I had seen
  In Rome's stupendous shrines and halls,
I felt the veil of sleep serene
Come o'er the memory of each scene,
  As twilight o'er the landscape falls.
Nor was it slumber, sound and deep,
  But such as suits a poet's rest--
That sort of thin, transparent sleep,
  Thro' which his day-dreams shine the best.
Methought upon a plain I stood,
  Where certain wondrous men, 'twas said,
With strange, miraculous power endued,
  Were coming each in turn to shed
His art's illusions o'er the sight
And call up miracles of light.
The sky above this lonely place,
  Was of that cold, uncertain hue,
The canvas wears ere, warmed apace,
  Its bright creation dawns to view.

But soon a glimmer from the east
  Proclaimed the first enchantments nigh;[1]
And as the feeble light increased,
  Strange figures moved across the sky,
With golden glories deckt and streaks
  Of gold among their garments' dyes;[2]
And life's resemblance tinged their cheeks,
  But naught of life was in their eyes;--
Like the fresh-painted Dead one meets,
Borne slow along Rome's mournful streets.

But soon these figures past away;
  And forms succeeded to their place
With less of gold in their array,
  But shining with more natural grace,
And all could see the charming wands
Had past into more gifted hands.
Among these visions there was one,[3]
Surpassing fair, on which the sun,
That instant risen, a beam let fall,
  Which thro' the dusky twilight trembled.
And reached at length the spot where all
  Those great magicians stood assembled.
And as they turned their heads to view
  The shining lustre, I could trace
The bright varieties it threw
  On each uplifted studying face:[4]
While many a voice with loud acclaim
Called forth, "Masaccio" as the name
Of him, the Enchanter, who had raised
This miracle on which all gazed.

'Twas daylight now--the sun had risen
  From out the dungeon of old Night.--
Like the Apostle from his prison
  Led by the Angel's hand of light;
And--as the fetters, when that ray
Of glory reached them, dropt away.[5]
So fled the clouds at touch of day!
Just then a bearded sage came forth,[6]
  Who oft in thoughtful dream would stand,
To trace upon the dusky earth
  Strange learned figures with his wand;
And oft he took the silver lute
  His little page behind him bore,
And waked such music as, when mute,
  Left in the soul a thirst for more!

Meanwhile his potent spells went on,
  And forms and faces that from out
A depth of shadow mildly shone
  Were in the soft air seen about.
Tho' thick as midnight stars they beamed,
Yet all like living sisters seemed,
So close in every point resembling
  Each other's beauties--from the eyes
Lucid as if thro' crystal trembling,
  Yet soft as if suffused with sighs,
To the long, fawn-like mouth, and chin,
  Lovelily tapering, less and less,
  Till by this very charm's excess,
Like virtue on the verge of sin,
  It touched the bounds of ugliness.
Here lookt as when they lived the shades
Of some of Arno's dark-eyed maids--
Such maids as should alone live on
In dreams thus when their charms are gone:
Some Mona Lisa on whose eyes
  A painter for whole years might gaze,[7]
Nor find in all his pallet's dyes
  One that could even approach their blaze!
Here float two spirit shapes,[8] the one,
With her white fingers to the sun
Outspread as if to ask his ray
Whether it e'er had chanced to play
On lilies half so fair as they!
This self-pleased nymph was Vanity--
And by her side another smiled,
  In form as beautiful as she,
But with that air subdued and mild,
  That still reserve of purity,
Which is to beauty like the haze
  Of evening to some sunny view,
Softening such charms as it displays
  And veiling others in that hue,
  Which fancy only can see thro'!
This phantom nymph, who could she be,
But the bright Spirit, Modesty?

Long did the learned enchanter stay
  To weave his spells and still there past,
As in the lantern's shifting play
Group after group in close array,
  Each fairer, grander, than the last.
But the great triumph of his power
  Was yet to come:--gradual and slow,
(As all that is ordained to tower
  Among the works of man must grow,)
The sacred vision stole to view,
  In that half light, half shadow shown,
Which gives to even the gayest hue
  A sobered, melancholy tone.
It was a vision of that last,[9]
Sorrowful night which Jesus past
With his disciples when he said
  Mournfully to them--"I shall be
"Betrayed by one who here hath fed
  "This night at the same board with me."
And tho' the Saviour in the dream
Spoke not these words, we saw them beam
Legibly in his eyes (so well
The great magician workt his spell),
And read in every thoughtful line
Imprinted on that brow divine.

The meek, the tender nature, grieved,
Not angered to be thus deceived--
Celestial love requited ill
For all its care, yet loving still--
Deep, deep regret that there should fall
  From man's deceit so foul a blight
Upon that parting hour--and all
  _His_ Spirit must have felt that night.
Who, soon to die for human-kind,
  Thought only, mid his mortal pain,
How many a soul was left behind
  For whom he died that death in vain!

Such was the heavenly scene--alas!
That scene so bright so soon should pass
But pictured on the humid air,
Its tints, ere long, grew languid there;[10]
And storms came on, that, cold and rough,
  Scattered its gentlest glories all--
As when the baffling winds blow off
  The hues that hang o'er Terni's fall,--
Till one by one the vision's beams
  Faded away and soon it fled.
To join those other vanisht dreams
  That now flit palely 'mong the dead,--
The shadows of those shades that go.
Around Oblivion's lake below!


[1] The paintings of those artists who were introduced into Venice and
Florence from Greece.

[2] Margaritone of Orezzo, who was a pupil and imitator of the Greeks, is
said to have invented this art of gilding the ornaments of pictures, a
practice which, though it gave way to a purer taste at the beginning of
the 16th century, was still occasionally used by many of the great
masters: as by Raphael in the ornaments of the Fornarina, and by Rubens
not unfrequently in glories and flames.

[3] The works of Masaccio.--For the character of this powerful and
original genius, see Sir Joshua Reynolds's twelfth discourse. His
celebrated frescoes are in the church of St. Pietro del Carmine, at
Florence.

[4] All the great artists studies, and many of them borrowed from
Masaccio. Several figures in the Cartoons of Raphael are taken, with but
little alteration, from his frescoes.

[5] "And a light shined in the prison ... and his chains fell off from his
hands."--_Acts_.

[6] Leonardo da Vinci.

[7] He is said to have been four years employed upon the portrait of this
fair Florentine, without being able, after all, to come up to his idea of
her beauty.

[8] Vanity and Modesty in the collection of Cardinal Fesch, at Rome. The
composition of the four hands here is rather awkward, but the picture,
altogether, is very delightful. There is a repetition of the subject in
the possession of Lucien Bonaparte.

[9] The Last Supper of Leonardo da Vinci, which is in the Refectory of the
Convent delle Grazie at Milan.

[10] Leonardo appears to have used a mixture of oil and varnish for this
picture, which alone, without the various other causes of its ruin, would
have prevented any long duration of its beauties. It is now almost
entirely effaced.






EXTRACT XV.

Rome.


_Mary Magdalen.--Her Story.--Numerous Pictures of her.--Correggio--Guido
--Raphael, etc.--Canova's two exquisite Statues.--The Somariva Magdalen.
--Chantrey's Admiration of Canova's Works_.


No wonder, MARY, that thy story
  Touches all hearts--for there we see thee.
The soul's corruption and its glory,
  Its death and life combine in thee.

From the first moment when we find
  Thy spirit haunted by a swarm
Of dark desires,--like demons shrined
  Unholily in that fair form,--
Till when by touch of Heaven set free,
  Thou camest, with those bright locks of gold
(So oft the gaze of BETHANY),
  And covering in their precious fold
Thy Saviour's feet didst shed such tears
As paid, each drop, the sins of years!--
Thence on thro' all thy course of love
  To Him, thy Heavenly Master,--Him
Whose bitter death-cup from above
  Had yet this cordial round the brim,
That woman's faith and love stood fast
And fearless by Him to the last:--
Till, oh! blest boon for truth like thine!
  Thou wert of all the chosen one,
Before whose eyes that Face Divine
  When risen from the dead first shone;
That thou might'st see how, like a cloud,
Had past away its mortal shroud,
And make that bright revealment known
To hearts less trusting than thy own.
All is affecting, cheering, grand;
  The kindliest record ever given,
Even under God's own kindly hand,
  Of what repentance wins from Heaven!

No wonder, MARY, that thy face,
  In all its touching light of tears,
Should meet us in each holy place,
  Where Man before his God appears,
Hopeless--were he not taught to see
All hope in Him who pardoned thee!
No wonder that the painter's skill
  Should oft have triumpht in the power
Of keeping thee all lovely still
  Even in thy sorrow's bitterest hour;
That soft CORREGGIO should diffuse
  His melting shadows round thy form;
That GUIDO'S pale, unearthly hues
  Should in portraying thee grow warm;
That all--from the ideal, grand,
Inimitable Roman hand,
Down to the small, enameling touch
  Of smooth CARLINO--should delight
In picturing her, "who loved so much,"
  And was, in spite of sin, so bright!

  But MARY, 'mong these bold essays
Of Genius and of Art to raise
A semblance of those weeping eyes--
  A vision worthy of the sphere
Thy faith has earned thee in the skies,
  And in the hearts of all men here,--
None e'er hath matched, in grief or grace,
CANOVA'S day-dream of thy face,
In those bright sculptured forms, more bright
With true expression's breathing light,
Than ever yet beneath the stroke
Of chisel into life awoke.
The one,[1] portraying what thou wert
  In thy first grief,--while yet the flower
Of those young beauties was unhurt
  By sorrow's slow, consuming power;
And mingling earth's seductive grace
  With heaven's subliming thoughts so well,
We doubt, while gazing, in _which_ place
  Such beauty was most formed to dwell!--
The other, as thou look'dst, when years
Of fasting, penitence and tears
Had worn thy frame;--and ne'er did Art
  With half such speaking power express
The ruin which a breaking heart
  Spreads by degrees o'er loveliness.
Those wasting arms, that keep the trace,
Even still, of all their youthful grace,
That loosened hair of which thy brow
Was once so proud,--neglected now!--
Those features even in fading worth
  The freshest bloom to others given,
And those sunk eyes now lost to earth
  But to the last still full of heaven!

Wonderful artist! praise, like mine--
  Tho' springing from a soul that feels
Deep worship of those works divine
  Where Genius all his light reveals--
How weak 'tis to the words that came
From him, thy peer in art and fame,[2]
Whom I have known, by day, by night,
Hang o'er thy marble with delight;
And while his lingering hand would steal
  O'er every grace the taper's rays[3]
Give thee with all the generous zeal
Such master spirits only feel,
  That best of fame, a rival's prize!


[1] This statue is one of the last works of Canova, and was not yet in
marble when I left Rome. The other, which seems to prove, in contradiction
to very high authority, that expression of the intensest kind is fully
within the sphere of sculpture, was executed many years ago, and is in the
possession of the Count Somariva at Paris.

[2] Chantrey.

[3] Canova always shows his fine statue, the Venere Vincitrice, by the
light of a small candle.






EXTRACT XVI.

Les Charmettes.


_A Visit to the house where Rousseau lived with Madame de Warrens.--
Their Menage.--Its Grossness.--Claude Anet.--Reverence with which the spot
is now visited.--Absurdity of this blind Devotion to Fame.--Feelings
excited by the Beauty and Seclusion of the Scene. Disturbed by its
Associations with Rousseau's History.--Impostures of Men of Genius.--Their
Power of mimicking all the best Feelings, Love, Independence, etc_.


Strange power of Genius, that can throw
Round all that's vicious, weak, and low,
Such magic lights, such rainbows dyes
As dazzle even the steadiest eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Tis worse than weak--'tis wrong, 'tis shame,
This mean prostration before Fame;
This casting down beneath the car
Of Idols, whatsoe'er they are,
Life's purest, holiest decencies,
To be careered o'er as they please.
No--give triumphant Genius all
For which his loftiest wish can call:
If he be worshipt, let it be
  For attributes, his noblest, first;
Not with that base idolatry
  Which sanctifies his last and worst.

  I may be cold;--may want that glow
Of high romance which bards should know;
That holy homage which is felt
In treading where the great have dwelt;
This reverence, whatsoe'er it be,
  I fear, I feel, I have it _not_:--
For here at this still hour, to me
  The charms of this delightful spot,
Its calm seclusion from the throng,
  From all the heart would fain forget,
This narrow valley and the song
  Of its small murmuring rivulet,
The flitting to and fro of birds,
Tranquil and tame as they were once
In Eden ere the startling words
  Of man disturbed their orisons,
Those little, shadowy paths that wind
Up the hillside, with fruit-trees lined
And lighted only by the breaks
The gay wind in the foliage makes,
Or vistas here and there that ope
  Thro' weeping willows, like the snatches
Of far-off scenes of light, which Hope
  Even tho' the shade of sadness catches!--
All this, which--could I once but lose
  The memory of those vulgar ties
Whose grossness all the heavenliest hues
  Of Genius can no more disguise
Than the sun's beams can do away
The filth of fens o'er which they play--
This scene which would have filled my heart
  With thoughts of all that happiest is;--
Of Love where self hath only part,
  As echoing back another's bliss;
Of solitude secure and sweet.
Beneath whose shade the Virtues meet.
Which while it shelters never chills
  Our sympathies with human woe,
But keeps them like sequestered rills
Purer and fresher in their flow;
Of happy days that share their beams
  'Twixt quiet mirth and wise employ;
Of tranquil nights that give in dreams
  The moonlight of the morning's joy!--
All this my heart could dwell on here,
But for those gross mementoes near;
Those sullying truths that cross the track
Of each sweet thought and drive them back
Full into all the mire and strife
And vanities of that man's life,
Who more than all that e'er have glowed
  With fancy's flame (and it was _his_,
In fullest warmth and radiance) showed
  What an impostor Genius is;
How with that strong, mimetic art
  Which forms its life and soul, it takes
All shapes of thought, all hues of heart,
  Nor feels itself one throb it wakes;
How like a gem its light may smile
  O'er the dark path by mortals trod,
Itself as mean a worm the while
  As crawls at midnight o'er the sod;
What gentle words and thoughts may fall
  From its false lip, what zeal to bless,
While home, friends, kindred, country, all,
  Lie waste beneath its selfishness;
How with the pencil hardly dry
  From coloring up such scenes of love
And beauty as make young hearts sigh
  And dream and think thro' heaven they rove,
They who can thus describe and move,
  The very workers of these charms,
Nor seek nor know a joy above
  Some Maman's or Theresa's arms!

How all in short that makes the boast
Of their false tongues they want the most;
And while with freedom on their lips,
  Sounding their timbrels, to set free
This bright world, laboring in the eclipse
  Of priestcraft and of slavery,--
They may themselves be slaves as low
  As ever Lord or Patron made
To blossom in his smile or grow
  Like stunted brushwood in his shade.
Out on the craft!--I'd rather be
  One of those hinds that round me tread,
With just enough of sense to see
  The noonday sun that's o'er his head,
Than thus with high-built genius curst,
  That hath no heart for its foundation,
Be all at once that's brightest, worst,
  Sublimest, meanest in creation!








CORRUPTION,

AND

INTOLERANCE.

TWO POEMS.

ADDRESSED TO AN ENGLISHMAN BY AN IRISHMAN.




PREFACE.


The practice which has been lately introduced into literature, of writing
very long notes upon very indifferent verses, appears to me a rather happy
invention, as it supplies us with a mode of turning dull poetry to
account; and as horses too heavy for the saddle may yet serve well enough
to draw lumber, so Poems of this kind make excellent beasts of burden and
will bear notes though they may not bear reading. Besides, the comments in
such cases are so little under the necessity of paying any servile
deference to the text, that they may even adopt that Socratic, "_quod
supra nos nihil ad nos."_

In the first of the two following Poems, I have ventured to speak of the
Revolution of 1688, in language which has sometimes been employed by Tory
writers and which is therefore neither very new nor popular. But however
an Englishman might be reproached with ingratitude for depreciating the
merits and results of a measure which he is taught to regard as the source
of his liberties--however ungrateful it might appear in Alderman Birch to
question for a moment the purity of that glorious era to which he is
indebted for the seasoning of so many orations--yet an Irishman who has
none of these obligations to acknowledge, to whose country the Revolution
brought nothing but injury and insult, and who recollects that the book of
Molyneux was burned by order of William's Whig Parliament for daring to
extend to unfortunate Ireland those principles on which the Revolution was
professedly founded--an Irishman _may_ be allowed to criticise freely the
measures of that period without exposing himself either to the imputation
of ingratitude or to the suspicion of being influenced by any Popish
remains of Jacobitism. No nation, it is true, was ever blessed with a more
golden opportunity of establishing and securing its liberties for ever
than the conjuncture of Eighty-eight presented to the people of Great
Britain. But the disgraceful reigns of Charles and James had weakened and
degraded the national character. The bold notions of popular right which
had arisen out of the struggles between Charles the First and his
Parliament were gradually supplanted by those slavish doctrines for which
Lord Hawkesbury eulogizes the churchmen of that period, and as the
Reformation had happened too soon for the purity of religion, so the
Revolution came too late for the spirit of liberty. Its advantages
accordingly were for the most part specious and transitory, while the
evils which it entailed are still felt and still increasing. By rendering
unnecessary the frequent exercise of Prerogative,--that unwieldy power
which cannot move a step without alarm,--it diminished the only
interference of the Crown, which is singly and independently exposed
before the people, and whose abuses therefore are obvious to their senses
and capabilities.  Like the myrtle over a celebrated statue in Minerva's
temple at Athens, it skilfully veiled from the public eye the only
obtrusive feature of royalty. At the same time, however, that the
Revolution abridged this unpopular attribute, it amply compensated by the
substitution of a new power, as much more potent in its effect as it is
more secret in its operations. In the disposal of an immense revenue and
the extensive patronage annexed to it, the first foundations of this power
of the Crown were laid; the innovation of a standing army at once
increased and strengthened it, and the few slight barriers which the Act
of Settlement opposed to its progress have all been gradually removed
during the Whiggish reigns that succeeded; till at length this spirit of
influence has become the vital principle of the state,--an agency, subtle
and unseen, which pervades every part of the Constitution, lurks under all
its forms and regulates all its movements, and, like the invisible sylph
or grace which presides over the motions of beauty,

  "_illam, quicquid agit, quoquo westigia flectit,
   componit furlim subsequiturque."_

The cause of Liberty and the Revolution are so habitually associated in
the minds of Englishmen that probably in objecting to the latter I may be
thought hostile or indifferent to the former. But assuredly nothing could
be more unjust than such a suspicion. The very object indeed which my
humble animadversions would attain is that in the crisis to which I think
England is now hastening, and between which and foreign subjugation she
may soon be compelled to choose, the errors and omissions of 1688 should
be remedied; and, as it was then her fate to experience a Revolution
without Reform, so she may now endeavor to accomplish a Reform without
Revolution.

In speaking of the parties which have so long agitated England, it will be
observed that I lean as little to the Whigs as to their adversaries. Both
factions have been equally cruel to Ireland and perhaps equally insincere
in their efforts for the liberties of England. There is one name indeed
connected with Whiggism, of which I can never think but with veneration
and tenderness. As justly, however, might the light of the sun be claimed
by any particular nation as the sanction of that name be monopolized by
any party whatsoever. Mr. Fox belonged to mankind and they have lost in
him their ablest friend.

With respect to the few lines upon Intolerance, which I have subjoined,
they are but the imperfect beginning of a long series of Essays with which
I here menace my readers upon the same important subject. I shall look to
no higher merit in the task than that of giving a new form to claims and
remonstrances which have often been much more eloquently urged and which
would long ere now have produced their effect, but that the minds of some
of our statesmen, like the pupil of the human eye, contract themselves the
more, the stronger light is shed upon them.






CORRUPTION,

AN EPISTLE.


Boast on, my friend--tho' stript of all beside,
Thy struggling nation still retains her pride:
That pride which once in genuine glory woke
When Marlborough fought and brilliant St. John spoke;
That pride which still, by time and shame unstung,
Outlives even Whitelocke's sword and Hawkesbury's tongue!
Boast on, my friend, while in this humbled isle[1]
Where Honor mourns and Freedom fears to smile,
Where the bright light of England's fame is known
But by the shadow o'er our fortunes thrown;
Where, doomed ourselves to naught but wrongs and slights,[2]
We hear you boast of Britain's glorious rights,
As wretched slaves that under hatches lie
Hear those on deck extol the sun and sky!
Boast on, while wandering thro' my native haunts,
I coldly listen to thy patriot vaunts;
And feel, tho' close our wedded countries twine,
More sorrow for my own than pride from thine.

  Yet pause a moment--and if truths severe
Can find an inlet to that courtly ear,
Which hears no news but Ward's gazetted lies,
And loves no politics in rhyme but Pye's,--
If aught can please thee but the good old saws
Of "Church and State," and "William's matchless laws,"
And "Acts and Rights of glorious Eighty-eight,"--
Things which tho' now a century out of date
Still serve to ballast with convenient words,
A few crank arguments for speeching lords,--
Turn while I tell how England's freedom found,
Where most she lookt for life, her deadliest wound;
How brave she struggled while her foe was seen,
How faint since Influence lent that foe a screen;
How strong o'er James and Popery she prevailed,
How weakly fell when Whigs and gold assailed.

  While kings were poor and all those schemes unknown
Which drain the people to enrich the throne;
Ere yet a yielding Commons had supplied
Those chains of gold by which themselves are tied,
Then proud Prerogative, untaught to creep
With bribery's silent foot on Freedom's sleep,
Frankly avowed his bold enslaving plan
And claimed a right from God to trample man!
But Luther's schism had too much roused mankind
For Hampden's truths to linger long behind;
Nor then, when king-like popes had fallen so low,
Could pope-like kings escape the levelling blow.[3]
That ponderous sceptre (in whose place we bow
To the light talisman of influence now),
Too gross, too visible to work the spell
Which modern power performs, in fragments fell:
In fragments lay, till, patched and painted o'er
With fleurs-de-lis, it shone and scourged once more.

  'Twas then, my friend, thy kneeling nation quaft
Long, long and deep, the churchman's opiate draught
Of passive, prone obedience--then took flight
All sense of man's true dignity and right;
And Britons slept so sluggish in their chain
That Freedom's watch-voice called almost in vain.
Oh England! England! what a chance was thine,
When the last tyrant of that ill-starred line
Fled from his sullied crown and left thee free
To found thy own eternal liberty!
How nobly high in that propitious hour
Might patriot hands have raised the triple tower[4]
Of British freedom on a rock divine
Which neither force could storm nor treachery mine!
But no--the luminous, the lofty plan,
Like mighty Babel, seemed too bold for man;
The curse of jarring tongues again was given
To thwart a work which raised men nearer heaven.
While Tories marred what Whigs had scarce begun,
While Whigs undid what Whigs themselves had done.
The hour was lost and William with a smile
Saw Freedom weeping o'er the unfinisht pile!

  Hence all the ills you suffer,--hence remain
Such galling fragments of that feudal chain[5]
Whose links, around you by the Norman flung,
Tho' loosed and broke so often, still have clung.
Hence sly Prerogative like Jove of old
Has turned his thunder into showers of gold,
Whose silent courtship wins securer joys,
Taints by degrees, and ruins without noise.
While parliaments, no more those sacred things
Which make and rule the destiny of kings.
Like loaded dice by ministers are thrown,
And each new set of sharpers cog their own.
Hence the rich oil that from the Treasury steals
Drips smooth o'er all the Constitution's wheels,
Giving the old machine such pliant play[6]
That Court and Commons jog one joltless way,
While Wisdom trembles for the crazy car,
So gilt, so rotten, carrying fools so far;
And the duped people, hourly doomed to pay
The sums that bribe their liberties away,[7]--
Like a young eagle who has lent his plume
To fledge the shaft by which he meets his doom,--
See their own feathers pluckt, to wing the dart
Which rank corruption destines for their heart!
But soft! methinks I hear thee proudly say,
"What! shall I listen to the impious lay
"That dares with Tory license to profane
"The bright bequests of William's glorious reign?
"Shall the great wisdom of our patriot sires,
"Whom Hawkesbury quotes and savory Birch admires,
"Be slandered thus? shall honest Steele agree
"With virtuous Rose to call us pure and free,
"Yet fail to prove it? Shall our patent pair
"Of wise state-poets waste their words in air,
"And Pye unheeded breathe his prosperous strain,
"And Canning _take the people's sense_ in vain?"

  The people!--ah! that Freedom's form should stay
Where Freedom's spirit long hath past away!
That a false smile should play around the dead
And flush the features when the soul hath fled![8]
When Rome had lost her virtue with her rights,
When her foul tyrant sat on Capreae's heights,[9]
Amid his ruffian spies and doomed to death
Each noble name they blasted with their breath,--
Even then, (in mockery of that golden time,
When the Republic rose revered, sublime,
And her proud sons, diffused from zone to zone,
Gave kings to every nation but their own,)
Even then the senate and the tribunes stood,
Insulting marks, to show how high the flood
Of Freedom flowed, in glory's bygone day,
And how it ebbed,--for ever ebbed away![10]

  Look but around--tho' yet a tyrant's sword
Nor haunts our sleep nor glitters o'er our board,
Tho' blood be better drawn, by modern quacks,
With Treasury leeches than with sword or axe;
Yet say, could even a prostrate tribune's power
Or a mock senate in Rome's servile hour
Insult so much the claims, the rights of man,
As doth that fettered mob, that free divan,
Of noble tools and honorable knaves,
Of pensioned patriots and privileged slaves;--
That party-colored mass which naught can warm
But rank corruption's heat--whose quickened swarm
Spread their light wings in Bribery's golden sky,
Buzz for a period, lay their eggs and die;--
That greedy vampire which from Freedom's tomb
Comes forth with all the mimicry of bloom
Upon its lifeless cheek and sucks and drains
A people's blood to feel its putrid veins!

  Thou start'st, my friend, at picture drawn so dark--
"Is there no light?"--thou ask'st--"no lingering spark
"Of ancient fire to warm us? Lives there none,
"To act a Marvell's part?"[11]--alas! not one.
_To_ place and power all public spirit tends,
_In_ place and power all public spirit ends;
Like hardy plants that love the air and sky,
When _out_, 'twill thrive--but taken _in_, 'twill die!

  Not bolder truths of sacred Freedom hung
From Sidney's pen or burned on Fox's tongue,
Than upstart Whigs produce each market-night,
While yet their conscience, as their purse, is light;
While debts at home excite their care for those
Which, dire to tell, their much-loved country owes,
And loud and upright, till their prize be known,
They thwart the King's supplies to raise their own.
But bees on flowers alighting cease their hum--
So, settling upon places, Whigs grow dumb.
And, tho' most base is he who, 'neath the shade
Of Freedom's ensign plies corruption's trade,
And makes the sacred flag he dares to show
His passport to the market of her foe,
Yet, yet, I own, so venerably dear
Are Freedom's grave old anthems to my ear,
That I enjoy them, tho' by traitors sung,
And reverence Scripture even from Satan's tongue.
Nay, when the constitution has expired,
I'll have such men, like Irish wakers, hired
To chant old "_Habeas Corpus_" by its side,
And ask in purchased ditties why it died?

See yon smooth lord whom nature's plastic pains
Would seem to've fashioned for those Eastern reigns
When eunuchs flourisht, and such nerveless things
As men rejected were the chosen of kings;--[12]
Even _he_, forsooth, (oh fraud, of all the worst!)
Dared to assume the patriot's name at first--
Thus Pitt began, and thus begin his apes;
Thus devils when _first_ raised take pleasing shapes.
But oh, poor Ireland! if revenge be sweet
For centuries of wrong, for dark deceit
And withering insult--for the Union thrown
Into thy bitter cup when that alone
Of slavery's draught was wanting[13]--if for this
Revenge be sweet, thou _hast_ that daemon's bliss;
For sure 'tis more than hell's revenge to fee
That England trusts the men who've ruined thee:--
That in these awful days when every hour
Creates some new or blasts some ancient power,
When proud Napoleon like the enchanted shield
Whose light compelled each wondering foe to yield,
With baleful lustre blinds the brave and free
And dazzles Europe into slavery,--
That in this hour when patriot zeal should guide,
When Mind should rule and--Fox should _not_ have died,
All that devoted England can oppose
To enemies made fiends and friends made foes,
Is the rank refuse, the despised remains
Of that unpitying power, whose whips and chains
Drove Ireland first to turn with harlot glance
Towards other shores and woo the embrace of France;--
Those hacked and tainted tools, so foully fit
For the grand artisan of mischief, Pitt,
So useless ever but in vile employ,
So weak to save, so vigorous to destroy--
Such are the men that guard thy threatened shore,
Oh England! sinking England! boast no more.


[1] England began very early to feel the effects of cruelty towards her
dependencies. "The severity of her government [says Macpherson]
contributed more to deprive her of the continental dominions of the family
of the Plantagenet than the arms of France."--See his _History_, vol.
i.

[2] "By the total reduction of the kingdom of Ireland in 1691[says
Burke], the ruin of the native Irish, and in a great measure, too, of the
first races of the English, was completely accomplished. The new English
interested was settled with as solid a stability as anything in human
affairs can look for. All the penal laws of that unparalleled code of
oppression, which were made after the last event, were manifestly the
effects of national hatred and scorn towards a conquered people, whom the
victors delighted to trample upon, and were not at all afraid to provoke."
Yet this is the era to which the wise Common Council of Dublin refer us
for "invaluable blessings," etc.

[3] The drivelling correspondence between James I and his "dog Steenie"
(the Duke of Buckingham), which we find among the Hardwicke Papers,
sufficiently shows, if we wanted any such illustration, into what doting,
idiotic brains the plan at arbitrary power may enter.

[4] Tacitus has expressed his opinion, in a passage very frequently
quoted, that such a distribution of power as the theory of the British
constitution exhibits is merely a subject of bright speculation, "a system
more easily praised than practised, and which, even could it happen to
exist, would certainly not prove permanent;" and, in truth, a review of
England's annals would dispose us to agree with the great historian's
remark. For we find that at no period whatever has this balance of the
three estates existed; that the nobles predominated till the policy of
Henry VII, and his successor reduced their weight by breaking up the
feudal system of property; that the power of the Crown became then supreme
and absolute, till the bold encroachments of the Commons subverted the
fabric altogether; that the alternate ascendency of prerogative and
privilege distracted the period which followed the Restoration; and that
lastly, the Acts of 1688, by laying the foundation of an unbounded court-
influence, have secured a preponderance to the Throne, which every
succeeding year increases. So that the vaunted British constitution has
never perhaps existed but in mere theory.

[5] The last great wound given to the feudal system was the Act of the
12th of Charles II, which abolished the tenure of knight's service _in
capite_, and which Blackstone compares, for its salutary influence upon
property, to the boasted provisions of Magna Charta itself. Yet even in
this act we see the effects of that counteracting spirit which has
contrived to weaken every effort of the English nation towards liberty.

[6] "They drove so fast [says Wellwood of the ministers of Charles I.],
that it was no wonder that the wheels and chariot broke."--(_Memoirs_
p. 86.)

[7] Among those auxiliaries which the Revolution of 1688 marshalled on the
side of the Throne, the bugbear of Popery has not been the least
convenient and serviceable. Those unskilful tyrants, Charles and James,
instead of profiting by that useful subserviency which has always
distinguished the ministers of our religious establishment, were so
infatuated as to plan the ruin of this best bulwark of their power and
moreover connected their designs upon the Church so undisguisedly with
their attacks upon the Constitution that they identified in the minds of
the people the interests of their religion and their liberties. During
those times therefore "No Popery" was the watchword of freedom and served
to keep the public spirit awake against the invasions of bigotry and
prerogative.

[8] "It is a scandal [said Sir Charles Sedley in William's reign] that a
government so sick at heart as ours is should look so well in the face."

[9] The senate still continued, during the reign of Tiberius, to manage
all the business of the public: the money was then and long after coined
by their authority, and every other public affair received their sanction.

[10] There is something very touching in what Tacitus tells us of the
hopes that revived in a few patriot bosoms, when the death of Augustus was
near approaching, and the fond expectation with which they already began
"_bona libertatis incassum disserere_."

[11] Andrew Marvell, the honest opposer of the court during the reign of
Charles the Second, and the last member of parliament who, according to
the ancient mode, took wages from his constituents. The Commons have,
since then, much changed their pay-masters.

[12] According to Xenophon, the chief circumstance which recommended these
creatures to the service of Eastern princes was the ignominious station
they held in society, and the probability of their being, upon this
account, more devoted to the will and caprice of a master, from whose
notice alone they derived consideration, and in whose favor they might
seek refuge from the general contempt of mankind.

[13] Among the many measures, which, since the Revolution, have
contributed to increase the influence of the Throne, and to feed up this
"Aaron's serpent" of the constitution to its present healthy and
respectable magnitude, there have been few more nutritive than the Scotch
and Irish Unions.






INTOLERANCE,

A SATIRE.


    "This clamor which pretends to be raised for the safety of religion
    has almost worn put the very appearance of it, and rendered us not
    only the most divided but the most immoral people upon the face of the
    earth."

    ADDISON, _Freeholder_, No. 37.


Start not, my friend, nor think the Muse will stain
Her classic fingers with the dust profane
Of Bulls, Decrees and all those thundering scrolls
Which took such freedom once with royal souls,[1]
When heaven was yet the pope's exclusive trade,
And kings were _damned_ as fast as now they're _made_,
No, no--let Duigenan search the papal chair
For fragrant treasures long forgotten there;
And, as the witch of sunless Lapland thinks
That little swarthy gnomes delight in stinks,
Let sallow Perceval snuff up the gale
Which wizard Duigenan's gathered sweets exhale.
Enough for me whose heart has learned to scorn
Bigots alike in Rome or England born,
Who loathe the venom whence-soe'er it springs,
From popes or lawyers,[2] pastrycooks or kings,--
Enough for me to laugh and weep by turns,
As mirth provokes or indignation burns,
As Canning Vapors or as France succeeds,
As Hawkesbury proses, or as Ireland bleeds!

  And thou, my friend, if, in these headlong days,
When bigot Zeal her drunken antics plays
So near a precipice, that men the while
Look breathless on and shudder while they smile--
If in such fearful days thou'lt dare to look
To hapless Ireland, to this rankling nook
Which Heaven hath freed from poisonous things in vain,
While Gifford's tongue and Musgrave's pen remain--
If thou hast yet no golden blinkers got
To shade thine eyes from this devoted spot,
Whose wrongs tho' blazoned o'er the world they be,
Placemen alone are privileged _not_ to see--
Oh! turn awhile, and tho' the shamrock wreathes
My homely harp, yet shall the song it breathes
Of Ireland's slavery and of Ireland's woes
Live when the memory of her tyrant foes
Shall but exist, all future knaves to warn,
Embalmed in hate and canonized by scorn.
When Castlereagh in sleep still more profound
Than his own opiate tongue now deals around,
Shall wait the impeachment of that awful day
Which even _his_ practised hand can't bribe away.

  Yes, my dear friend, wert thou but near me now,
To see how Spring lights up on Erin's brow
Smiles that shine out unconquerably fair
Even thro' the blood-marks left by Camden there,--[3]
Couldst thou but see what verdure paints the sod
Which none but tyrants and their slaves have trod,
And didst thou know the spirit, kind and brave,
That warms the soul of each insulted slave,
Who tired with struggling sinks beneath his lot
And seems by all but watchful France forgot--[4]
Thy heart would burn--yes, even thy Pittite heart
Would burn to think that such a blooming part
Of the world's garden, rich in nature's charms
And filled with social souls and vigorous arms,
Should be the victim of that canting crew,
So smooth, so godly,--yet so devilish too;
Who, armed at once with prayer-books and with whips,
Blood on their hands and Scripture on their lips,
Tyrants by creed and tortures by text,
Make _this_ life hell in honor of the _next_!
Your Redesdales, Percevals,--great, glorious Heaven,
If I'm presumptuous, be my tongue forgiven,
When here I swear by my soul's hope of rest,
I'd rather have been born ere man was blest
With the pure dawn of Revelation's light,
Yes,--rather plunge me back in Pagan night,
And take my chance with Socrates for bliss,[5]
Than be the Christian of a faith like this,
Which builds on heavenly cant its earthly sway
And in a convert mourns to lose a prey;
Which, grasping human hearts with double hold,--
Like Danaee's lover mixing god and gold,[6]--
Corrupts both state and church and makes an oath
The knave and atheist's passport into both;
Which, while it dooms dissenting souls to know
Nor bliss above nor liberty below,
Adds the slave's suffering to the sinner's fear,
And lest he 'scape hereafter racks him here!
But no--far other faith, far milder beams
Of heavenly justice warm the Christian's dreams;
_His_ creed is writ on Mercy's page above,
By the pure hands of all-atoning Love;
_He_ weeps to see abused Religion twine
Round Tyranny's coarse brow her wreath divine;
And _he_, while round him sects and nations raise
To the one God their varying notes of praise,
Blesses each voice, whate'er its tone may be,
That serves to swell the general harmony.[7]

  Such was the spirit, gently, grandly bright,
That filled, oh Fox! thy peaceful soul with light;
While free and spacious as that ambient air
Which folds our planet in its circling care,
The mighty sphere of thy transparent mind
Embraced the world, and breathed for all mankind.
Last of the great, farewell!--yet _not_ the last--
Tho' Britain's sunshine hour with thee be past,
Ierne still one ray of glory gives
And feels but half thy loss while Grattan lives.


[1] The king-deposing doctrine, notwithstanding its many mischievous
absurdities, was of no little service to the cause of political liberty,
by inculcating the right of resistance to tyrants and asserting the will
of the people to be the only true fountain of power.

[2] When Innocent X. was entreated to decide the controversy between the
Jesuits and the Jansenists, he answered, that "he had been bred a lawyer,
and had therefore nothing to do with divinity." It were to be wished that
some of our English pettifoggers knew their own fit element as well as
Pope Innocent X.

[3] Not the Camden who speaks thus of Ireland:--"To wind up all, whether
we regard the fruitfulness of the soil, the advantage of the sea, with so
many commodious havens, or the natives themselves, who are warlike,
ingenious, handsome, and well-complexioned, soft-skinned and very nimble,
by reason of the pliantness of their muscles, this Island is in many
respects so happy, that Giraldus might very well say, 'Nature had regarded
with more favorable eyes than ordinary this Kingdom of Zephyr.'"

[4] The example of toleration, which Bonaparte has held forth, will, I
fear, produce no other effect than that of determining the British
government to persist, from the very spirit of opposition, in their own
old system of intolerance and injustice: just as the Siamese blacken their
teeth, "because," as they say, "the devil has white ones."

[5] In a singular work, written by one Franciscus Collius, "upon the Souls
of the Pagans," the author discusses, with much coolness and erudition,
all the probable chances of salvation upon which a heathen philosopher
might calculate. Consigning to perdition without much difficulty Plato,
Socrates, etc., the only sage at whose fate he seems to hesitate is
Pythagoras, in consideration of his golden thigh, and the many miracles
which he performed. But having balanced a little his claims and finding
reason to father all these miracles on the devil, he at length, in the
twenty-fifth chapter, decides upon damning him also.

[6] Mr. Fox, in his Speech on the Repeal of the Test Act (1790), thus
condemns the intermixture of religion with the political constitution of a
state:--"What purpose [he asks] can it serve, except the baleful purpose
of communicating and receiving contamination? Under such an alliance
corruption must alight upon the one, and slavery overwhelm the other."

[7] Both Bayle and Locke would have treated the subject of Toleration in a
manner much more worthy of themselves and of the cause if they had written
in an age less distracted by religious prejudices.








THE SCEPTIC,

A PHILOSOPHICAL SATIRE.




PREFACE.


The Sceptical Philosophy of the Ancients has been no less misrepresented
than the Epicurean. Pyrrho may perhaps have carried it to rather an
irrational excess;--but we must not believe with Beattie all the
absurdities imputed to this philosopher; and it appears to me that the
doctrines of the school, as explained by Sextus Empiricus, are far more
suited to the wants and infirmities of human reason as well as more
conducive to the mild virtues of humility and patience, than any of those
systems of philosophy which preceded the introduction of Christianity. The
Sceptics may be said to have held a middle path between the Dogmatists and
Academicians; the former of whom boasted that they had attained the truth
while the latter denied that any attainable truth existed. The Sceptics
however, without either asserting or denying its existence, professed to
be modestly and anxiously in search of it; or, as St. Augustine expresses
it, in his liberal tract against the Manichaeans, "_nemo nostrum dicat jam
se invenisse veritatem; sic eam quoeramus quasi ab utrisque nesciatur_."
From this habit of impartial investigation and the necessity which it
imposed upon them of studying not only every system of philosophy but
every art and science which professed to lay its basis in truth, they
necessarily took a wider range of erudition and were far more travelled in
the regions of philosophy than those whom conviction or bigotry had
domesticated in any particular system. It required all the learning of
dogmatism to overthrow the dogmatism of learning; and the Sceptics may be
said to resemble in this respect that ancient incendiary who stole from
the altar the fire with which he destroyed the temple. This advantage over
all the other sects is allowed to them even by Lipsius, whose treatise on
the miracles of the Virgo Hallensis will sufficiently save him from all
suspicion of scepticism. "_labore, ingenio, memoria_," he says, "_supra
omnes pene philosophos fuisse.--quid nonne omnia aliorum secta tenere
debuerunt et inquirere, si poterunt refellere?  res dicit nonne orationes
varias, raras, subtiles inveniri ad tam receptas, claras, certas (ut
videbatur) sententias evertendas?" etc.--"Manuduct. ad Philosoph. Stoic."
Dissert_. 4.

Between the scepticism of the ancients and the moderns the great
difference is that the former doubted for the purpose of investigating, as
may be exemplified by the third book of Aristotle's Metaphysics, while the
latter investigate for the purpose of doubting, as may be seen through
most of the philosophical works of Hume. Indeed the Pyrrhonism of latter
days is not only more subtle than that of antiquity, but, it must be
confessed, more dangerous in its tendency. The happiness of a Christian
depends so essentially upon his belief, that it is but natural he should
feel alarm at the progress of doubt, lest it should steal by degrees into
that region from which he is most interested in excluding it, and poison
at last the very spring of his consolation and hope. Still however the
abuses of doubting ought not to deter a philosophical mind from indulging
mildly and rationally in its use; and there is nothing surely more
consistent with the meek spirit of Christianity than that humble
scepticism which professes not to extend its distrust beyond the circle of
human pursuits and the pretensions of human knowledge. A follower of this
school may be among the readiest to admit the claims of a superintending
Intelligence upon his faith and adoration: it is only to the wisdom of
this weak world that he refuses or at least delays his assent;--it is only
in passing through the shadow of earth that his mind undergoes the eclipse
of scepticism. No follower of Pyrrho has ever spoken more strongly against
the dogmatists than St. Paul himself, in the First Epistle to the
Corinthians; and there are passages in Ecclesiastes and other parts of
Scripture, which justify our utmost diffidence in all that human reason
originates. Even the Sceptics of antiquity refrained carefully from the
mysteries of theology, and in entering the temples of religion laid aside
their philosophy at the porch. Sextus Empiricus declares the acquiescence
of his sect in the general belief of a divine and foreknowing Power:--In
short it appears to me that this rational and well-regulated scepticism is
the only daughter of the Schools that can safely be selected as a handmaid
for Piety. He who distrusts the light of reason will be the first to
follow a more luminous guide; and if with an ardent love for truth he has
sought her in vain through the ways of this life, he will but turn with
the more hope to that better world where all is simple, true and
everlasting: for there is no parallax at the zenith;--it is only near our
troubled horizon that objects deceive us into vague and erroneous
calculations.






THE SCEPTIC


As the gay tint that decks the vernal rose[1]
Not in the flower but in our vision glows;
As the ripe flavor of Falernian tides
Not in the wine but in our taste resides;
So when with heartfelt tribute we declare
That Marco's honest and that Susan's fair,
'Tis in our minds and not in Susan's eyes
Or Marco's life the worth or beauty lies:
For she in flat-nosed China would appear
As plain a thing as Lady Anne is here;
And one light joke at rich Loretto's dome
Would rank good Marco with the damned at Rome.

  There's no deformity so vile, so base,
That 'tis not somewhere thought a charm, a grace;
No foul reproach that may not steal a beam
From other suns to bleach it to esteem.
Ask who is wise?--you'll find the self-same man
A sage in France, a madman in Japan;
And _here_ some head beneath a mitre swells,
Which _there_ had tingled to a cap and bells:
Nay, there may yet some monstrous region be,
Unknown to Cook and from Napoleon free,
Where Castlereagh would for a patriot pass
And mouthing Musgrave scarce be deemed an ass!

  "List not to reason (Epicurus cries),
"But trust the senses, _there_ conviction lies:"[2]--
Alas! _they_ judge not by a purer light,
Nor keep their fountains more untinged and bright:
Habit so mars them that the Russian swain
Will sigh for train-oil while he sips Champagne;
And health so rules them, that a fever's heat
Would make even Sheridan think water sweet.

  Just as the mind the erring sense[3] believes,
The erring mind in turn the sense deceives;
And cold disgust can find but wrinkles there,
Where passion fancies all that's smooth and fair.
P * * * *, who sees, upon his pillow laid,
A face for which ten thousand pounds were paid,
Can tell how quick before a jury flies
The spell that mockt the warm seducer's eyes.

  Self is the medium thro' which Judgment's ray
Can seldom pass without being turned astray.
The smith of Ephesus[4] thought Dian's shrine,
By which his craft most throve, the most divine;
And even the _true_ faith seems not half so true,
When linkt with _one_ good living as with _two_.
Had Wolcot first been pensioned by the throne,
Kings would have suffered by his praise alone;
And Paine perhaps, for something snug _per ann_.,
Had laught like Wellesley at all Rights of Man.

  But 'tis not only individual minds,--
Whole nations too the same delusion blinds.
Thus England, hot from Denmark's smoking meads,
Turns up her eyes at Gallia's guilty deeds;
Thus, self-pleased still, the same dishonoring chain
She binds in Ireland she would break in Spain;
While praised at distance, but at home forbid,
Rebels in Cork are patriots at Madrid.

  If Grotius be thy guide, shut, shut the book,--
In force alone for Laws of Nations look.
Let shipless Danes and whining Yankees dwell
On naval rights, with Grotius and Vattel.
While Cobbet's pirate code alone appears
Sound moral sense to England and Algiers.

  Woe to the Sceptic in these party days
Who wafts to neither shrine his puffs of praise!
For him no pension pours its annual fruits,
No fertile sinecure spontaneous shoots;
Not _his_ the meed that crowned Don Hookham's rhyme,
Nor sees he e'er in dreams of future time
Those shadowy forms of sleek reversions rise,
So dear to Scotchmen's second-sighted eyes.
Yet who that looks to History's damning leaf,
Where Whig and Tory, thief opposed to thief,
On either side in lofty shame are seen,[5]
While Freedom's form lies crucified between--
Who, Burdett, who such rival rogues can see,
But flies from _both_ to Honesty and thee?

  If weary of the world's bewildering maze,[6]
Hopeless of finding thro' its weedy ways
One flower of truth, the busy crowd we shun,
And to the shades of tranquil learning run,
How many a doubt pursues! how oft we sigh
When histories charm to think that histories lie!
That all are grave romances, at the best,
And Musgrave's but more clumsy than the rest.
By Tory Hume's seductive page beguiled,
We fancy Charles was just and Strafford mild;[7]
And Fox himself with party pencil draws
Monmouth a hero, "for the good old cause!"

Then rights are wrongs and victories are defeats,
As French or English pride the tale repeats;
And when they tell Corunna's story o'er,
They'll disagree in all but honoring Moore:
Nay, future pens to flatter future courts
May cite perhaps the Park-guns' gay reports,
To prove that England triumphs on the morn
Which found her Junot's jest and Europe's scorn.

  In science too--how many a system, raised
Like Neva's icy domes, awhile hath blazed
With lights of fancy and with forms of pride,
Then, melting, mingled with the oblivious tide!
_Now_ Earth usurps the centre of the sky,
_Now_ Newton puts the paltry planet by;
_Now_ whims revive beneath Descartes's[8] pen,
Which _now_, assailed by Locke's, expire again.
And when perhaps in pride of chemic powers,
We think the keys of Nature's kingdom ours,
Some Davy's magic touch the dream unsettles,
And turns at once our alkalis to metals.
Or should we roam in metaphysic maze
Thro' fair-built theories of former days,
Some Drummond from the north, more ably skilled,
Like other Goths, to ruin than to build,
Tramples triumphant thro' our fanes o'erthrown,
Nor leaves one grace, one glory of its own.

  Oh! Learning, whatsoe'er thy pomp and boast,
_Un_lettered minds have taught and charmed men most.
The rude, unread Columbus was our guide
To worlds, which learned Lactantius had denied;
And one wild Shakespeare following Nature's lights
Is worth whole planets filled with Stagyrites.

  See grave Theology, when once she strays
From Revelation's path, what tricks she plays;
What various heavens,--all fit for bards to sing,--
Have churchmen dreamed, from Papias,[9] down to King![10]
While hell itself, in India naught but smoke[11]
In Spain's a furnace and in France--a joke.

  Hail! modest Ignorance, thou goal and prize,
Thou last, best knowledge of the simply wise!
Hail! humble Doubt, when error's waves are past,
How sweet to reach thy sheltered port at last,
And there by changing skies nor lured nor awed.
Smile at the battling winds that roar abroad.
_There_ gentle Charity who knows how frail
The bark of Virtue, even in summer's gale,
Sits by the nightly fire whose beacon glows
For all who wander, whether friends or foes.
_There_ Faith retires and keeps her white sail furled,
Till called to spread it for a better world;
While Patience watching on the weedy shore,
And mutely waiting till the storm be o'er,
Oft turns to Hope who still directs her eye
To some blue spot just breaking in the sky!

  Such are the mild, the blest associates given
To him who doubts,--and trusts in naught but Heaven!


[1] "The particular bulk, number, figure, and motion of the parts of fire
or snow are really in them, whether any one perceives them or not, and
therefore they may be called real qualities because they really exist in
those bodies; but light, heat, whiteness or coldness are no more really in
them than sickness or pain is in manna. Take away the sensation of them;
let not the eye see light or colors, nor the ears hear sounds; let the
palate not taste nor the nose smell, and all colors, tastes, odors and
sounds, as they are such particular ideas, vanish and
cease."--_Locke_, book ii. chap 8.

[2] This was the creed also of those modern Epicureans, whom Ninon de
l'Enclos collected around her in the Rue des Tournelles, and whose object
seems to have been to decry the faculty of reason, as tending only to
embarrass our wholesome use of pleasures, without enabling us, in any
degree, to avoid their abuse. Madame des Houlieres, the fair pupil of Des
Barreaux in the arts of poetry and gallantry, has devoted most of her
verses to this laudable purpose, and is even such a determined foe to
reason, that, in one of her pastorals, she congratulates her sheep on the
want of it.

[3] Socrates and Plato were the grand sources of ancient scepticism.
According to Cicero ("_de Orator_," lib. iii.), they supplied Arcesilas
with the doctrines of the Middle Academy; and how closely these resembled
the tenets of the Sceptics, may be seen even in Sextus Empiricus (lib. i.
cap. 33), who with all his distinctions can scarcely prove any difference.
It appears strange that Epicurus should have been a dogmatist; and his
natural temper would most probably have led him to the repose of
scepticism had not the Stoics by their violent opposition to his doctrines
compelled him to be as obstinate as themselves.

[4] _Acts_, chap. xix. "For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith,
which made silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the
craftsmen."

[5] "Those two thieves," says Ralph," between whom the nation is
crucified."--"_Use and Abuse of Parliaments_."

[6] The agitation of the ship is one of the chief difficulties which
impede the discovery of the longitude at sea; and the tumult and hurry of
life are equally unfavorable to that calm level of mind which is necessary
to an inquirer after truth.

[7] He defends Stafford's conduct as "innocent and even laudable." In the
same spirit, speaking of the arbitary sentences of the Star Chamber, he
says,--"The severity of the Star Chamber, which was generally ascribed to
Laud's passionate disposition, was perhaps in itself somewhat blamable."

[8] Descartes, who is considered as the parent of modern scepticism, says,
that there is nothing in the whole range of philosophy which does not
admit of two opposite opinions, and which is not involved in doubt and
uncertainty. Gassendi is likewise to be added to the list of modern
Sceptics, and Wedderkopff, has denounced Erasmus also as a follower of
Pyrrho, for his opinions upon the Trinity, and some other subjects. To
these if we add the names of Bayle, Malebranche, Dryden, Locke, etc., I
think there is no one who need be ashamed of insulting in such company.

[9] Papias lived about the time of the apostles, and is supposed to have
given birth to the heresy of the Chiliastae, whose heaven was by no means
of a spiritual nature, but rather an anticipation of the Prophet of Hera's
elysium.

[10] King, in his "Morsels of Criticisms," vol. i., supposes the sun to be
the receptacle of blessed spirits.

[11] The Indians call hell "the House of Smoke."








TWOPENNY POST-BAG,

BY

THOMAS BROWN, THE YOUNGER.


    _elapsae manibus secidere tabellae_.--OVID.




DEDICATION.

TO

STEPHEN WOOLRICHE, ESQ.


MY DEAR WOOLRICHE,--

It is now about seven years since I promised (and I grieve to think it is
almost as long since we met) to dedicate to you the very first Book, of
whatever size or kind I should publish. Who could have thought that so
many years would elapse, without my giving the least signs of life upon
the subject of this important promise? Who could have imagined that a
volume of doggerel, after all, would be the first offering that Gratitude
would lay upon the shrine of Friendship?

If you continue, however, to be as much interested about me and my
pursuits as formerly, you will be happy to hear that doggerel is not my
_only_ occupation; but that I am preparing to throw my name to the Swans
of the Temple of Immortality, leaving it of course to the said Swans to
determine whether they ever will take the trouble of picking it from the
stream.

In the meantime, my dear Woolriche, like an orthodox Lutheran, you must
judge of me rather by my _faith_ than my _works_; and however trifling the
tribute which I here offer, never doubt the fidelity with which I am and
always shall be

Your sincere and attached friend,

THE AUTHOR.

_March 4, 1813_.




PREFACE.


The Bag, from which the following Letters are selected, was dropped by a
Twopenny Postman about two months since, and picked up by an emissary of
the Society for the Suppression of Vice, who supposing it might materially
assist the private researches of that Institution, immediately took it to
his employers and was rewarded handsomely for his trouble. Such a treasury
of secrets was worth a whole host of informers; and, accordingly, like the
Cupids of the poet (if I may use so profane a simile) who "fell at odds
about the sweet-bag of a bee,"[1] those venerable Suppressors almost
fought with each other for the honor and delight of first ransacking the
Post-Bag. Unluckily, however, it turned out upon examination that the
discoveries of profligacy which it enabled them to make, lay chiefly in
those upper regions of society which their well-bred regulations forbid
them to molest or meddle with.--In consequence they gained but very few
victims by their prize, and after lying for a week or two under Mr.
Hatchard's counter the Bag with its violated contents was sold for a
trifle to a friend of mine.

It happened that I had been just then seized with an ambition (having
never tried the strength of my wing but in a Newspaper) to publish
something or other in the shape of a Book; and it occurred to me that, the
present being such a letter-writing era, a few of these Twopenny-Post
Epistles turned into easy verse would be as light and popular a task as I
could possibly select for a commencement. I did not, however, think it
prudent to give too many Letters at first and accordingly have been
obliged (in order to eke out a sufficient number of pages) to reprint some
of those trifles, which had already appeared in the public journals. As in
the battles of ancient times, the shades of the departed were sometimes
seen among the combatants, so I thought I might manage to remedy the
thinness of my ranks, by conjuring up a few dead and forgotten ephemerons
to fill them.

Such are the motives and accidents that led to the present publication;
and as this is the first time my Muse has ever ventured out of the go-cart
of a Newspaper, though I feel all a parent's delight at seeing little Miss
go alone, I am also not without a parent's anxiety lest an unlucky fall
should be the consequence of the experiment; and I need not point out how
many living instances might be found of Muses that have suffered very
severely in their heads from taking rather too early and rashly to their
feet. Besides, a Book is so very different a thing from a Newspaper!--in
the former, your doggerel without either company or shelter must stand
shivering in the middle of a bleak page by itself; whereas in the latter
it is comfortably backed by advertisements and has sometimes even a Speech
of Mr. Stephen's, or something equally warm, for a _chauffe-pieds_--so
that, in general, the very reverse of "_laudatur et alget_" is its
destiny.

Ambition, however, must run some risks and I shall be very well satisfied
if the reception of these few Letters should have the effect of sending me
to the Post-Bag for more.


[1] Herrick.






INTERCEPTED LETTERS, ETC.






LETTER I.

FROM THE PRINCESS CHARLOTTE OF WALES
TO THE LADY BARBARA ASHLER.[1]


My dear Lady Bab, you'll be shockt I'm afraid,
When you hear the sad rumpus your Ponies have made;
Since the time of horse-consuls (now long out of date),
No nags ever made such a stir in the state.
Lord Eldon first heard--and as instantly prayed he
To "God and his King"--that a Popish young Lady
(For tho' you've bright eyes and twelve thousand a year,
It is still but too true you're a Papist, my dear,)
Had insidiously sent, by a tall Irish groom,
Two priest-ridden ponies just landed from Rome,
And so full, little rogues, of pontifical tricks
That the dome of St. Paul was scarce safe from their kicks.

Off at once to Papa in a flurry he flies--
For Papa always does what these statesmen advise
On condition that they'll be in turn so polite
As in no case whate'er to advise him _too right_--
"Pretty doings are here, Sir (he angrily cries,
While by dint of dark eyebrows he strives to look wise)--
"'Tis a scheme of the Romanists, so help me God!
"To ride over your _most_ Royal Highness roughshod--
"Excuse, Sir, my tears--they're from loyalty's source-
"Bad enough 'twas for Troy to be sackt by a _Horse_,
"But for us to be ruined by _Ponies_ still worse!"
Quick a Council is called--the whole Cabinet sits--
The Archbishops declare, frightened out of their wits,
That if once Popish Ponies should eat at my manger,
From that awful moment the Church is in danger!
As, give them but stabling and shortly no stalls
Will suit their proud stomachs but those at St. Paul's.

The Doctor,[2] and he, the devout man of Leather,[3]
Vansittart, now laying their Saint-heads together,
Declare that these skittish young abominations
Are clearly foretold in Chap. vi. Revelations--
Nay, they verily think they could point out the one
Which the Doctor's friend Death was to canter upon.

  Lord Harrowby hoping that no one imputes
To the Court any fancy to persecute brutes,
Protests on the word of himself and his cronies
That had these said creatures been Asses, not Ponies,
The Court would have started no sort of objection,
As Asses were, _there_, always sure of protection.

  "If the Princess _will_ keep them (says Lord Castlereagh),
"To make them quite harmless, the only true way
"Is (as certain Chief Justices do with their wives)
"To flog them within half an inch of their lives.
"If they've any bad Irish blood lurking about,
"This (he knew by experience) would soon draw it out."
Should this be thought cruel his Lordship proposes
"The new _Veto_ snaffle[4] to bind down their noses--
"A pretty contrivance made out of old chains,
"Which appears to indulge while it doubly restrains;
"Which, however high-mettled, their gamesomeness checks
"(Adds his Lordship humanely), or else breaks their necks!"

  This proposal received pretty general applause
From the Statesmen around-and the neck-breaking clause
Had a vigor about it, which soon reconciled
Even Eldon himself to a measure so mild.
So the snaffles, my dear, were agreed to _nem. con_.,
And my Lord Castlereagh, having so often shone
In the _fettering line_, is to buckle them on.
I shall drive to your door in these _Vetoes_ some day,
But, at present, adieu!-I must hurry away
To go see my Mamma, as I'm suffered to meet her
For just half an hour by the Queen's best repeater.

CHARLOTTE.


[1] This young Lady, who is a Roman Catholic, had lately made a present of
some beautiful Ponies to the Princess.

[2] Mr. Addington, so nicknamed.

[3] Alluding to a tax lately laid upon leather.

[4] The question whether a Veto was to be allowed to the Crown in the
appointment of Irish Catholic Bishops was, at this time, very generally
and actively agitated.






LETTER II.

FROM COLONEL M'MAHON TO GOULD FRANCIS LECKIE, ESQ.


DEAR SIR--
  I've just had time to look
Into your very learned Book,
Wherein--as plain as man can speak.
Whose English is half modern Greek--
You prove that we can ne'er intrench
Our happy isles against the French,
Till Royalty in England's made
A much more independent trade;--
In short until the House of Guelph
Lays Lords and Commons on the shelf,
And boldly sets up for itself.

  All that can well be understood
In this said Book is vastly good;
And as to what's incomprehensible,
I dare be sworn 'tis full as sensible.

  But to your work's immortal credit
The Prince, good Sir, the Prince has read it
(The only Book, himself remarks,
Which he has read since Mrs. Clarke's).
Last levee-morn he lookt it thro',
During that awful hour or two
Of grave tonsorial preparation,
Which to a fond, admiring nation
Sends forth, announced by trump and drum,
The best-wigged Prince in Christendom.

  He thinks with you, the imagination
Of _partnership_ in legislation
Could only enter in the noddles
Of dull and ledger-keeping twaddles,
Whose heads on _firms_ are running so,
They even must have a King and Co.,
And hence most eloquently show forth
On _checks_ and _balances_ and so forth.

  But now, he trusts, we're coming near a
Far more royal, loyal era;
When England's monarch need but say,
"Whip me those scoundrels, Castlereagh!"
Or, "Hang me up those Papists, Eldon,"
And 'twill be done--ay, faith, and well done.

  With view to which I've his command
To beg, Sir, from your travelled hand,
(Round which the foreign graces swarm)[1]
A Plan of radical Reform;
Compiled and chosen as best you can,
In Turkey or at Ispahan,
And quite upturning, branch and root,
Lords, Commons, and Burdett to boot.

  But, pray, whate'er you may impart, write
Somewhat more brief than Major Cartwright:
Else, tho' the Prince be long in rigging,
'Twould take at least a fortnight's wigging,--
Two wigs to every paragraph--
Before he well could get thro' half.

  You'll send it also speedily--
As truth to say 'twixt you and me,
His Highness, heated by your work,
Already thinks himself Grand Turk!
And you'd have laught, had you seen how
He scared the Chancellor just now,
When (on his Lordship's entering puft) he
Slapt his back and called him "Mufti!"

  The tailors too have got commands
To put directly into hands
All sorts of Dulimans and Pouches,
With Sashes, Turbans and Paboutches,
(While Yarmouth's sketching out a plan
Of new _Moustaches a l'Ottomane_)
And all things fitting and expedient
To _turkify_ our gracious Regent!

  You therefore have no time to waste--
So, send your System.--
                Yours in haste.

POSTSCRIPT.

Before I send this scrawl away,
I seize a moment just to say
There's some parts of the Turkish system
So vulgar 'twere as well you missed 'em.
For instance--in _Seraglio_ matters--
Your Turk whom girlish fondness flatters,
Would fill his Haram (tasteless fool!)
With tittering, red-cheekt things from school.
But _here_ (as in that fairy land,
Where Love and Age went hand in hand;[2]
Where lips, till sixty, shed no honey,
And Grandams were worth any money,)
_Our_ Sultan has much riper notions--
So, let your list of _she_-promotions
Include those only plump and sage,
Who've reached the _regulation_-age;
That is, (as near as one can fix
From Peerage dates) full fifty-six.

  This rule's for _favorites_--nothing more--
For, as to _wives_, a Grand Signor,
Tho' not decidedly _without_ them,
Need never care one curse about them.


[1] "The truth indeed seems to be, that having lived so long abroad as
evidently to have lost, in a great degree, the use of his native language,
Mr. Leckie has gradually come not only to speak, but to feel, like a
foreigner."--_Edinburgh Review_.

[2] The learned Colonel must allude here to a description of the
Mysterious Isle, in the History of Abdalla, Son of Hanif, where such
inversions of the order of nature are said to have taken place.--"A score
of old women and the same number of old men played here and there in the
court, some at chuck-farthing, others at tip-cat or at cockles."--And
again, "There is nothing, believe me, more engaging than those lovely
wrinkles."--See "_Tales of the East_," vol. iii. pp. 607, 608.






LETTER III.

FROM GEORGE PRINCE REGENT TO
THE EARL OF YARMOUTH.[1]


We missed you last night at the "hoary old sinner's,"
Who gave us as usual the cream of good dinners;
His soups scientific, his fishes quite _prime_--
His _pates_ superb, and his cutlets sublime!
In short, 'twas the snug sort of dinner to stir a
Stomachic orgasm in my Lord Ellenborough,
Who _set to_, to be sure, with miraculous force,
And exclaimed between mouthfuls, "a _He-Cook_, of course!--
"While you live--(what's there under that cover? pray, look)--
"While you live--(I'll just taste it)--ne'er keep a She-Cook.
"'Tis a sound Salic Law--(a small bit of that toast)--
"Which ordains that a female shall ne'er rule the roast;
"For Cookery's a secret--(this turtle's uncommon)--
"Like Masonry, never found out by a woman!"

  The dinner you know was in gay celebration
Of _my_ brilliant triumph and Hunt's condemnation;
A compliment too to his Lordship the Judge
For his Speech to the Jury--and zounds! who would grudge
Turtle soup tho' it came to five guineas a bowl,
To reward such a loyal and complaisant soul?
We were all in high gig--Roman Punch and Tokay
Travelled round till our heads travelled just the same way;
And we cared not for Juries or Libels--no--damme! nor
Even for the threats of last Sunday's Examiner!

  More good things were eaten than said--but Tom Tyrrhitt
In quoting Joe Miller you know has some merit;
And hearing the sturdy Judiciary Chief
Say--sated with turtle--"I'll now try the beef"--
Tommy whispered him (giving his Lordship a sly hit)
"I fear 'twill be _hung_-beef, my Lord, if you _try_ it!"

  And Camden was there, who that morning had gone
To fit his new Marquis's coronet on;
And the dish set before him--oh! dish well-devised!--
Was what old Mother Glasse calls, "a calf's head surprised!"
The _brains_ were near Sherry and _once_ had been fine,
But of late they had lain so long soaking in wine,
That tho' we from courtesy still chose to call
These brains very fine they were no brains at all.

  When the dinner was over, we drank, every one
In a bumper, "the venial delights of Crim. Con.;"
At which Headfort with warm reminiscences gloated,
And Ellenb'rough chuckled to hear himself quoted.

  Our next round of toasts was a fancy quite new,
For we drank--and you'll own 'twas benevolent too--
To those well-meaning husbands, cits, parsons or peers,
Whom we've any time honored by courting their dears:
This museum of wittols was comical rather;
Old Headfort gave Massey, and _I_ gave your father.
In short, not a soul till this morning would budge--
We were all fun and frolic, and even the Judge
Laid aside for the time his juridical fashion,
And thro' the whole night wasn't _once_ in a passion!

  I write this in bed while my whiskers are airing,
And Mac[2] has a sly dose of jalap preparing
For poor Tommy Tyrrhitt at breakfast to quaff--
As I feel I want something to give me a laugh,
And there's nothing so good as old Tommy kept close
To his Cornwall accounts after taking a dose.


[1] This letter, as the reader will perceive, was written the day after a
dinner given by the Marquis of Headfort.

[2] Colonel M'Mahon.






LETTER IV.

FROM THE RIGHT HON. PATRICK DUIGENAN
TO THE RIGHT HON. SIR JOHN NICHOL.


Last week, dear Nichol, making merry
At dinner with our Secretary,
When all were drunk or pretty near
(The time for doing business here),
Says he to me, "Sweet Bully Bottom!
"These Papist dogs--hiccup--'od rot 'em!--
"Deserve to be bespattered--hiccup--
"With all the dirt even _you_ can pick up.
"But, as the Prince (here's to him--fill--
"Hip, hip, hurra!)--is trying still
"To humbug them with kind professions,
"And as _you_ deal in _strong_ expressions--
"_Rogue"--"traitor_"--hiccup--and all that--
"You must be muzzled, Doctor Pat!--
"You must indeed--hiccup--that's flat."--

Yes--"muzzled" was the word Sir John--
These fools have clapt a muzzle on
The boldest mouth that e'er run o'er
With slaver of the times of yore![1]--
Was it for this that back I went
As far as Lateran and Trent,
To prove that they who damned us then
Ought now in turn be damned again?
The silent victim still to sit
Of Grattan's fire and Canning's wit,
To hear even noisy Mathew gabble on,
Nor mention once the Whore of Babylon!
Oh! 'tis too much--who now will be
The Nightman of No-Popery?
What Courtier, Saint or even Bishop
Such learned filth will ever fish up?
If there among our ranks be one
To take my place, 'tis _thou_, Sir John;
Thou who like me art dubbed Right Hon.
Like me too art a Lawyer Civil
That wishes Papists at the devil.

  To whom then but to thee, my friend,
Should Patrick[2] his Port-folio send?
Take it--'tis thine--his learned Port-folio,
With all its theologic olio
Of Bulls, half Irish and half Roman--
Of Doctrines now believed by no man--
Of Councils held for men's salvation,
Yet always ending in damnation--
(Which shows that since the world's creation
Your Priests, whate'er their gentle shamming,
Have always had a taste for damning,)
And many more such pious scraps,
To prove (what _we've_ long proved, perhaps,)
That mad as Christians used to be
About the Thirteenth Century,
There still are Christians to be had
In this, the Nineteenth, just as mad!

  Farewell--I send with this, dear Nichol,
A rod or two I've had in pickle
Wherewith to trim old Grattan's jacket.--
The rest shall go by Monday's packet.

P. D.

_Among the Enclosures in the foregoing Letter was the following
"Unanswerable Argument against the Papists_."

We're told the ancient Roman nation
Made use of spittle in lustration;
(_Vide "Lactantium ap. Gallaeum"_[3]--
_i. e_. you need not _read_ but _see_ 'em;)
Now Irish Papists--fact surprising--
Make use of spittle in baptizing;
Which proves them all, O'Finns, O'Fagans,
Connors and Tooles all downright Pagans.
This fact's enough; let no one tell us
To free such sad, _salivous_ fellows.--
No, no--the man, baptized with spittle,
Hath no truth in him--not a tittle!


[1] In sending this sheet to the Press, however, I learn that the "muzzle"
has been taken off, and the Right Hon. Doctor again let loose!

[2] A bad name for poetry; but Duigenan is still worse.

[3] I have taken the trouble of examining the Doctor's reference here, and
find him for once correct.






LETTER V.

FROM THE COUNTESS DOWAGER OF CORK TO LADY---.


My dear Lady---! I've been just sending out
About five hundred cards for a snug little Rout--
(By the by, you've seen "Rokeby"?--this moment got mine--
The "Mail-Coach Edition"--prodigiously fine!)
But I can't conceive how in this very cold weather
I'm ever to bring my five hundred together;
As, unless the thermometer's near boiling heat,
One can never get half of one's hundreds to meet.

(Apropos--you'd have thought to see Townsend last night,
Escort to their chairs, with his staff, so polite,
The "three maiden Miseries," all in a fright;
Poor Townsend, like Mercury, filling two posts,
Supervisor of _thieves_ and chief-usher of _ghosts_!)

  But, my dear Lady----, can't you hit on some notion,
At least for one night to set London in motion?--
As to having the Regent, _that_ show is gone by--
Besides, I've remarkt that (between you and I)
The Marchesa and he, inconvenient in more ways,
Have taken much lately to whispering in doorways;
Which--considering, you know, dear, the _size_ of the two--
Makes a block that one's company _cannot_ get thro';
And a house such as mine is, with door-ways so small,
Has no room for such cumbersome love-work at all.--
(Apropos, tho', of love-work--you've heard it, I hope,
That Napoleon's old mother's to marry the Pope,--
"What a comical pair!)--but, to stick to my Rout,
'Twill be hard if some novelty can't be struck out.
Is there no Algerine, no Kamchatkan arrived?
No Plenipo Pacha, three-tailed and ten-wived?
No Russian whose dissonant consonant name
Almost rattles to fragments the trumpet of fame?

  I remember the time three or four winters back,
When--provided their wigs were but decently black--
A few Patriot monsters from Spain were a sight
That would people one's house for one, night after night.
But--whether the Ministers _pawed_ them too much--
(And you--know how they spoil whatsoever they touch)
Or, whether Lord George (the young man about town)
Has by dint of bad poetry written them down.
One has certainly lost one's _peninsular_ rage;
And the only stray Patriot seen for an age
Has been at such places (think, how the fit cools!)
As old Mrs. Vaughan's or Lord Liverpool's.

  But, in short, my dear, names like Wintztschitstopschinzoudhoff
Are the only things now make an evening go smooth off:
So, get me a Russian--till death I'm your debtor--
If he brings the whole Alphabet, so much the better.
And--Lord! if he would but, _in character_, sup
Off his fish-oil and candles, he'd quite set me up!

  _Au revoir_, my sweet girl--I must leave you in haste--
Little Gunter has brought me the Liqueurs to taste.

POSTSCRIPT.

By the by, have you found any friend that can conster
That Latin account, t'other day, of a Monster?[1]
If we can't get a Russian, and _that think_ in Latin
Be not _too_ improper, I think I'll bring that in.


[1] Alluding, I suppose, to the Latin Advertisement of a _lusus
Naturae_ in the Newspapers lately.






LETTER VI.

FROM ABDALLAH,[1] IN LONDON, TO MOHASSAN, IN ISPAHAN.


Whilst thou, Mohassan, (happy thou!)
Dost daily bend thy loyal brow
Before our King--our Asia's treasure!
Nutmeg of Comfort: Rose of Pleasure!--
And bearest as many kicks and bruises
As the said Rose and Nutmeg chooses;
Thy head still near the bowstring's borders.
And but left on till further orders--
Thro' London streets with turban fair,
And caftan floating to the air,
I saunter on, the admiration
Of this short-coated population--
This sewed-up race--this buttoned nation--
Who while they boast their laws so free
Leave not one limb at liberty,
But live with all their lordly speeches
The slaves of buttons and tight breeches.

  Yet tho' they thus their knee-pans fetter
(They're Christians and they know no better)
  In _some_ things they're a thinking nation;
And on Religious Toleration.
I own I like their notions _quite_,
They are so Persian and so right!
You know our Sunnites,[2] hateful dogs!
Whom every pious Shiite flogs
Or longs to flog--'tis true, they pray
To God, but in an ill-bred way;
With neither arms nor legs nor faces
Stuck in their right, canonic places.[3]
'Tis true, they worship Ali's name--
_Their_ heaven and _ours_ are just the same--
(A Persian's Heaven is easily made,
'Tis but black eyes and lemonade.)
Yet tho' we've tried for centuries back--
We can't persuade this stubborn pack,
By bastinadoes, screws or nippers,
To wear the establisht pea-green slippers.[4]
Then, only think, the libertines!
They wash their toes--they comb their chins,
With many more such deadly sins;
And what's the worst, (tho' last I rank it)
Believe the Chapter of the Blanket!

  Yet spite of tenets so flagitious,
(Which _must_ at bottom be seditious;
Since no man living would refuse
Green slippers but from treasonous views;
Nor wash his toes but with intent
To overturn the government,)--
Such is our mild and tolerant way,
We only curse them twice a day
(According to a Form that's set),
And, far from torturing, only let
All orthodox believers beat 'em,
And twitch their beards where'er they meet 'em.

  As to the rest, they're free to do
Whate'er their fancy prompts them to,
Provided they make nothing of it
Towards rank or honor, power or profit;
Which things we naturally expect,
Belong to US, the Establisht sect,
Who disbelieve (the Lord be thanked!)
The aforesaid Chapter of the Blanket.
The same mild views of Toleration
Inspire, I find, this buttoned nation,
Whose Papists (full as given to rogue,
And only Sunnites with a brogue)
Fare just as well, with all their fuss,
As rascal Sunnites do with us.

  The tender Gazel I enclose
Is for my love, my Syrian Rose--
Take it when night begins to fall,
And throw it o'er her mother's wall.

GAZEL.

Rememberest thou the hour we past,--
That hour the happiest and the last?
Oh! not so sweet the Siha thorn
To summer bees at break of morn,
Not half so sweet, thro' dale and dell,
To Camels' ears the tinkling bell,
As is the soothing memory
Of that one precious hour to me.

How can we live, so far apart?
Oh! why not rather, heart to heart,
    United live and die--
Like those sweet birds, that fly together,
With feather always touching feather,
    Linkt by a hook and eye![5]


[1] I have made many inquiries about this Persian gentleman, but cannot
satisfactorily ascertain who he is. From his notions of Religious Liberty,
however, I conclude that he is an importation of Ministers; and he has
arrived just in time to assist the Prince and Mr. Leckie in their new
Oriental Plan of Reform.--See the second of these letters.--How Abdallah's
epistle to Ispahan found its way into the Twopenny Post-Bag is more than I
can pretend to account for.

[2] Sunnites and Shiites are the two leading sects into which the
Mahometan world is divided; and they have gone on cursing and persecuting
each other, without any intermission, for about eleven hundred years. The
_Sunni_ is the established sect in Turkey, and the _Shia_ in
Persia; and the differences between them turn chiefly upon those important
points, which our pious friend Abdallah, is the true spirit of Shiite
Ascendency, reprobates in this Letter.

[3] "In contradistinction to the Sounis, who in their prayers cross their
hands on the lower part of the breasts, the Schiahs drop their arms in
straight lines; and as the Sounis, at certain periods of the prayer, press
their foreheads on the ground or carpet, the Schiahs," etc.--_Forster's
Voyage_.

[4] "The Shiites wear green slippers, which the Sunnites consider as a
great abomination."--_Mariti_.

[5] This will appear strange to an English reader, but it is literally
translated from Abdallah's Persian, and the curious bird to which he
alludes is the _Juftak_, of which I find the following account in
Richardson:--"A sort of bird, that is said to have but one wing; on the
opposite side to which the male has a hook and the female a ring, so that,
when they fly, they are fastened together."






LETTER VII.

FROM MESSRS. LACKINGTON AND CO. TO THOMAS MOORE, ESQ.


Per Post, Sir, we send your MS.--look it thro'--
Very sorry--but can't undertake--'twouldn't do.
Clever work, Sir!--would _get up_ prodigiously well--
Its only defect is--it never would sell.
And tho' _Statesmen_ may glory in being _unbought_,
In an _Author_ 'tis not so desirable thought.

  Hard times, Sir, most books are too dear to be read--
Tho' the _gold_ of Good-sense and Wit's _small-change_ are fled,
Yet the paper we Publishers pass, in their stead,
Rises higher each day, and ('tis frightful to think it)
Not even such names as Fitzgerald's can sink it!

  However, Sir--if you're for trying again,
And at somewhat that's vendible--we are your men.

  Since the Chevalier Carr[1] took to marrying lately,
The Trade is in want of a _Traveller_ greatly--
No job, Sir, more easy--your _Country_ once planned,
A month aboard ship and a fortnight on land
Puts your Quarto of Travels, Sir, clean out of hand.

  An East-India pamphlet's a thing that would tell--
And a lick at the Papists is _sure_ to sell well.
Or--supposing you've nothing _original_ in you--
Write Parodies, Sir, and such fame it will win you,
You'll get to the Blue-stocking Routs of Albinia![2]
(Mind--_not_ to her _dinners_--a _second-hand_ Muse
Mustn't think of aspiring to _mess_ with the _Blues_.)
Or--in case nothing else in this world you can do--
The deuce is in't, Sir, if you can not _review_!

  Should you feel any touch of _poetical_ glow,
We've a Scheme to suggest--Mr. Scott, you must know,
(Who, we're sorry to say it, now works for _the Row_.[3])
Having quitted the Borders to seek new renown,
Is coming by long Quarto stages to Town;
And beginning with "Rokeby" (the job's sure to pay)
Means to _do_ all the Gentlemen's Seats on the way.
Now, the Scheme is (tho' none of our hackneys can beat him)
To start a fresh Poet thro' Highgate to _meet_ him;
Who by means of quick proofs--no revises--long coaches--
May do a few Villas before Scott approaches.
Indeed if our Pegasus be not curst shabby,
He'll reach, without foundering, at least Woburn Abbey.
Such, Sir, is our plan--if you're up to the freak,
'Tis a match! and we'll put you _in training_ next week.
At present, no more--in reply to this Letter,
A line will oblige very much
      Yours, _et cetera_.

_Temple of the Muses_.


[1] Sir John Carr, the author of "Tours in Ireland, Holland. Sweden," etc.

[2] This alludes, I believe, to a curious correspondence, which is said to
have passed lately between Albina, Countess of Buckinghamshire, and a
certain ingenious Parodist.

[3] Paternoster Row.






LETTER VIII.

FROM COLONEL THOMAS TO ---- SKEFFINGTON, ESQ.


Come to our Fete and bring with thee
Thy newest, best embroidery.
Come to our Fete and show again
That pea-green coat, thou pink of men,
Which charmed all eyes that last surveyed it;
When Brummel's self inquired "who made it?"--
When Cits came wondering from the East
And thought thee Poet Pye _at least_!

  Oh! come, (if haply 'tis thy week
For looking pale,) with paly cheek;
Tho' more we love thy roseate days,
When the rich rouge-pot pours its blaze
Full o'er thy face and amply spread,
Tips even thy whisker-tops with red--
Like the last tints of dying Day
That o'er some darkling grove delay.

  Bring thy best lace, thou gay Philander,
(That lace, like Harry Alexander,
Too precious to be washt,) thy _rings_,
Thy seals--in short, thy prettiest things!
Put all thy wardrobe's glories on,
And yield in frogs and fringe to none
But the great Regent's self alone;
Who--by particular desire--
_For that night only_, means to hire
A dress from, Romeo Coates, Esquire.[1]
Hail, first of Actors! best of Regents!
Born for each other's fond allegiance!
_Both_ gay Lotharios--both good dressers--
Of serious Farce _both_ learned Professors--
_Both_ circled round, for use or show,
With cock's combs, wheresoe'er they go![2]

  Thou knowest the time, thou man of lore!
It takes to chalk a ball-room floor--
Thou knowest the time, too, well-a-day!
It takes to dance that chalk away.[3]
The Ball-room opens--far and nigh
Comets and suns beneath us lie;
O'er snow-white moons and stars we walk,
And the floor seems one sky of chalk!
But soon shall fade that bright deceit,
When many a maid, with busy feet
That sparkle in the lustre's ray,
O'er the white path shall bound and play
Like Nymphs along the Milky Way:--
With every step a star hath fled,
And suns grow dim beneath their tread,
So passeth life--(thus Scott would write,
And spinsters read him with delight,)--
Hours are not feet, yet hours trip on,
Time is not chalk, yet time's soon gone!

  But, hang this long digressive flight!--
I meant to say, thou'lt see that night
What falsehood rankles in their hearts,
Who say the Prince neglects the arts--
Neglects the arts?--no, Strahlweg,[4] no;
_Thy_ Cupids answer "'tis not so;"
And every floor that night shall tell
How quick thou daubest and how well.
Shine as thou mayst in French vermilion,
Thou'rt _best_ beneath a French cotillion;
And still comest off, whate'er thy faults,
With _flying colors_ in a Waltz.
Nor needest thou mourn the transient date
To thy best works assigned by fate.
While _some chef-d'oeuvres_ live to weary one,
_Thine_ boast a short life and a merry one;
Their hour of glory past and gone
With "Molly put the kettle on!"[5]

  But, bless my soul! I've scarce a leaf
Of paper left--so must be brief.
  This festive Fete, in fact, will be
The former Fete's _facsimile_;[6]
The same long Masquerade of Rooms,
All trickt up in such odd costumes,
(These, Porter,[7] are thy glorious works!)
You'd swear Egyptians, Moors and Turks,
Bearing Good-Taste some deadly malice,
Had clubbed to raise a Pic-Nic Palace;
And each to make the olio pleasant
Had sent a State-Room as a present.
The same _fauteuils_ and girondoles--
The same gold Asses,[8]pretty souls!
That in this rich and classic dome
Appear so perfectly at home.
The same bright river 'mong the dishes,
But _not_--ah! not the same dear fishes--
Late hours and claret killed the old ones--
So 'stead of silver and of gold ones,
(It being rather hard to raise
Fish of that _specie_ now-a-days)
Some sprats have been by Yarmouth's wish,
Promoted into _Silver_ Fish,
And Gudgeons (so Vansittart told
The Regent) are as good as _Gold_!

  So, prithee, come--our Fete will be
But half a Fete if wanting thee.


[1] An amateur actor of much risible renown.

[2] The crest of Mr. Coates, the very amusing amateur tragedian here
alluded to, was a cock; and most profusely were his liveries, harness,
etc. covered wit this ornament.

[3] To those who neither go to balls nor read _The Morning Post_, it may
be necessary to mention, that the floors of Ballrooms, in general, are
chalked for safety and for ornament with various fanciful devices.

[4] A foreign artist much patronized by the Prince Regent.

[5] The name of a popular country-dance.

[6] "Carleton House will exhibit a complete _facsimile_ in respect to
interior ornament, to what it did at the last Fete. The same splendid
draperies," etc.--_Morning Post_.

[7] Mr. Walsh Porter, to whose taste was left the furnishing of the rooms
of Carletone House.

[8] The salt-cellars on the Prince's _own_ table were in the form of an
Ass with panniers.


       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX.




LETTER IV. PAGE 584.


Among the papers, enclosed in Dr. Duigenan's Letter, was found an Heroic
Epistle in Latin verse, from Pope Joan to her Lover, of which, as it is
rather a curious document, I shall venture to give some account. This
female Pontiff was a native of England, (or, according to others of
Germany,) who at an early age disguised herself in male attire and
followed her lover, a young ecclesiastic, to Athens where she studied with
such effect that upon her arrival at Rome she was thought worthy of being
raised to the Pontificate. This Epistle is addressed to her Lover (whom
she had elevated to the dignity of Cardinal), soon after the fatal
_accouchement_, by which her Fallibility was betrayed.

She begins by reminding him tenderly of the time, when they were together
at Athens--when, as she says,

   --"by Ilissus' stream
  "We whispering walkt along, and learned to speak
  "The tenderest feelings in the purest Greek;
  "Ah! then how little did we think or hope,
  "Dearest of men, that I should e'er be Pope![1]
  "That I, the humble Joan, whose housewife art
  "Seemed just enough to keep thy house and heart,
  "(And those, alas! at sixes and at sevens,)
  "Should soon keep all the keys of all the heavens!"

Still less (she continues to say) could they have foreseen, that such
a catastrophe as had happened in Council would befall them--that she

  "Should thus surprise the Conclave's grave decorum,
  "And let a _little Pope_ pop out before 'em--
  "Pope _Innocent_! alas, the only one
  "That name could e'er be justly fixt upon."

She then very pathetically laments the downfall of her greatness, and
enumerates the various treasures to which she is doomed to bid farewell
forever:--

  "But oh, more dear, more precious ten times over--
  "Farewell my Lord, my Cardinal, my Lover!
  "I made _thee_ Cardinal--thou madest _me_--ah!
  "Thou madest the Papa of the world Mamma!"

I have not time at present to translate any more of this Epistle; but I
presume the argument which the Right Hon. Doctor and his friends mean to
deduce from it, is (in their usual convincing strain) that Romanists must
be unworthy of Emancipation _now_, because they had a Petticoat Pope in
the Ninth Century. Nothing can be more logically clear, and I find that
Horace had exactly the same views upon the subject.

    Romanus (_eheu posteri negabitis_!)
    emancipatus FOEMINAE
    _fert vallum_!


[1] Spanheim attributes the unanimity with which Joan was elected to that
innate and irresistible charm by which her sex, though latent, operated
upon the instinct of the Cardinals.




LETTER VII. PAGE 588.


The Manuscript, found enclosed in the Bookseller's Letter, turns out to be
a Melo-Drama, in two Acts, entitled "The Book,"[1] of which the Theatres,
of course, had had the refusal, before it was presented to Messrs.
Lackington and Co. This rejected Drama however possesses considerable
merit and I shall take the liberty of laying a sketch of it before my
Readers.

The first Act opens in a very awful manner--_Time_, three o'clock in
the morning--_Scene_, the Bourbon Chamber[2] in Carleton House--
Enter the Prince Regent _solus_--After a few broken sentences, he
thus exclaims:--

    Away--Away--
  Thou haunt'st my fancy so, thou devilish Book,
  I meet thee--trace thee, whereso'er I look.
  I see thy damned _ink_ in Eldon's brows--
  I see thy _foolscap_ on my Hertford's Spouse--
  Vansittart's head recalls thy _leathern_ case,
  And all thy _blank-leaves_ stare from R--d--r's face!
  While, turning here (_laying his hand on his heart_,)
        I find, ah wretched elf,
  Thy _List_ of dire _Errata_ in myself.
    (_Walks the stage in considerable agitation_.)
  Oh Roman Punch! oh potent Curacoa!
  Oh Mareschino! Mareschino oh!
  Delicious drams! why have you not the art
  To kill this gnawing _Book-worm_ in my heart?

He is here interrupted in his Soliloquy by perceiving on the ground some
scribbled fragments of paper, which he instantly collects, and "by the
light of two magnificent candelabras" discovers the following unconnected
words, "_Wife neglected"--"the Book"--"Wrong Measures"--"the Queen"--"Mr.
Lambert"--"the Regent_."

  Ha! treason in my house!--Curst words, that wither
  My princely soul, (_shaking the papers violently_) what Demon
      brought you hither?
  "My Wife;"--"the Book" too!--stay--a nearer look--
  (_holding the fragments closer to the Candelabras_)
  Alas! too plain, B, double O, K, Book--
  Death and destruction!

He here rings all the bells, and a whole legion of valets enter. A scene
of cursing and swearing (very much in the German style) ensues, in the
course of which messengers are despatched, in different directions, for
the Lord Chancellor, the Duke of Cumberland, etc. The intermediate time is
filled up by another Soliloquy, at the conclusion of which the aforesaid
Personages rush on alarmed; the Duke with his stays only half-laced, and
the Chancellor with his wig thrown hastily over an old red night-cap, "to
maintain the becoming splendor of his office."[3] The Regent produces the
appalling fragments, upon which the Chancellor breaks out into
exclamations of loyalty and tenderness, and relates the following
portentous dream:

    'Tis scarcely two hours since
  I had a fearful dream of thee, my Prince!--
  Methought I heard thee midst a courtly crowd
  Say from thy throne of gold, in mandate loud,
  "Worship my whiskers!"--(_weeps_) not a knee was there
  But bent and worshipt the Illustrious Pair,
  Which curled in conscious majesty! (_pulls out his handkerchief_)--
    while cries
  Of "Whiskers; whiskers!" shook the echoing skies.--
  Just in that glorious hour, me-thought, there came,
  With looks of injured pride, a Princely Dame
  And a young maiden, clinging by her side,
  As if she feared some tyrant would divide
  Two hearts that nature and affection tied!
  The Matron came--within her _right_ hand glowed
  A radiant torch; while from her _left_ a load
  Of Papers hung--(_wipes his eyes_) collected in her veil--
  The venal evidence, the slanderous tale,
  The wounding hint, the current lies that pass
  From _Post_ to _Courier_, formed the motley mass;
  Which with disdain before the Throne she throws,
  And lights the Pile beneath thy princely nose.

  (_Weeps_.)

  Heavens, how it blazed!--I'd ask no livelier fire,
  (With animation) To roast a Papist by, my gracious Sire!--
  But ah! the Evidence--_(weeps again)_ I mourned to see--
  Cast as it burned, a deadly light on thee:
  And Tales and Hints their random sparkles flung,
  And hissed and crackled, like an old maid's tongue;
  While _Post_ and _Courier_, faithful to their fame,
  Made up in stink for what they lackt in flame.
  When, lo, ye Gods! the fire ascending brisker,
  Now singes _one_ now lights the _other_ whisker.
  Ah! where was then the Sylphid that unfurls
  Her fairy standard in defence of curls?
  Throne, Whiskers, Wig soon vanisht into smoke,
  The watchman cried "Past One," and--I awoke.

Here his Lordship weeps more profusely than ever, and the Regents (who has
been very much agitated during the recital of the Dream) by a movement as
characteristic as that of Charles XII. when he was shot, claps his hands
to his whiskers to feel if all be really safe. A Privy Council is held--
all the Servants, etc. are examined, and it appears that a Tailor, who had
come to measure the Regent for a Dress (which takes three whole pages of
the best superfine _clinquant_ in describing) was the only person who
had been in the Bourbon Chamber during the day. It is, accordingly,
determined to seize the Tailor, and the Council breaks up with a unanimous
resolution to be vigorous.

The commencement of the Second Act turns chiefly upon the Trial and
Imprisonment of two Brothers[4]--but as this forms the _under_ plot
of the Drama, I shall content myself with extracting from it the following
speech, which is addressed to the two Brothers, as they "_exeunt_
severally" to Prison:--

  Go to your prisons--tho' the air of Spring
  No mountain coolness to your cheeks shall bring;
  Tho' Summer flowers shall pass unseen away,
  And all your portion of the glorious day
  May be some solitary beam that falls
  At morn or eve upon your dreary walls--
  Some beam that enters, trembling as if awed,
  To tell how gay the young world laughs abroad!
  Yet go--for thoughts as blessed as the air
  Of Spring or Summer flowers await you there;
  Thoughts such as He who feasts his courtly crew
  In rich conservatories _never_ knew;
  Pure self-esteem--the smiles that light within--
  The Zeal, whose circling charities begin
  With the few loved-ones Heaven has placed it near,
  And spread till all Mankind are in its sphere;
  The Pride that suffers without vaunt or plea.
  And the fresh Spirit that can warble free
  Thro' prison-bars its hymn to Liberty!

The Scene next changes to a Tailor's Workshop, and a fancifully-arranged
group of these Artists is discovered upon the Shop-board--Their task
evidently of a _royal_ nature, from the profusion of gold-lace, frogs,
etc., that lie about--They all rise and come forward, while one of them
sings the following Stanzas to the tune of "Derry Down."

  My brave brother Tailors, come, straighten your knees,
  For a moment, like gentlemen, stand up at ease,
  While I sing of our Prince (and a fig for his railers),
  The Shop-board's delight! the Maecenas of Tailors!
        Derry down, down, down
          derry down.

  Some monarchs take roundabout ways into note,
  While _His_ short cut to fame is--the cut of his coat;
  Philip's Son thought the World was too small for his Soul,
  But our Regent's finds room in a laced button-hole.
                  Derry down, etc.

  Look thro' all Europe's Kings--those, at least, who go loose--
  Not a King of them all's such a friend to the Goose.
  So, God keep him increasing in size and renown,
  Still the fattest and best fitted Prince about town!
                  Derry down, etc.

During the "Derry down" of this last verse, a messenger from the Secretary
of State's Office rushes on, and the singer (who, luckily for the effect
of the scene, is the very Tailor suspected of the mysterious fragments) is
interrupted in the midst of his laudatory exertions and hurried away, to
the no small surprise and consternation of his comrades. The Plot now
hastens rapidly in its development--the management of the Tailor's
examination is highly skilful, and the alarm which he is made to betray is
natural without being ludicrous. The explanation too which he finally
gives is not more simple than satisfactory. It appears that the said
fragments formed part of a self-exculpatory note, which he had intended to
send to Colonel M'Mahon upon subjects purely professional, and the
corresponding bits (which still lie luckily in his pocket) being produced
and skilfully laid beside the others, the following _billet-doux_ is the
satisfactory result of their juxtaposition,

  Honored Colonel--my Wife, who's the Queen of all slatterns,
  Neglected to put up the Book of new Patterns.
  She sent the wrong Measures too--shamefully wrong--
  They're the same used for poor Mr. Lambert, when young;
  But, bless you! they wouldn't go half round the Regent--
  So, hope you'll excuse yours till death, most obedient.

This fully explains the whole mystery--the Regent resumes his wonted
smiles, and the Drama terminates as usual to the satisfaction of all
parties.


[1] There was, in like manner, a mysterious Book, in the 16th Century,
which employed all the anxious curiosity of the Learned of that time.
Every one spoke of it; many wrote against it; though it does not appear
that anybody had ever seen it; and Grotius is of opinion that no such Book
ever existed. It was entitled, "_Liber de tribus impostoribus_." (See
Morhof. Cap. "_de Libris damnatis_.")

[2] The same Chamber, doubtless, that was prepared for the reception of
the Bourbons at the first Grand Fete, and which was ornamented (all "for
the Deliverance of Europe") with _fleurs de-lys_.

[3] "To enable the individual who holds the office of Chancellor to
maintain it in becoming splendor."  (_A loud laugh_.)--Lord
CASTLEREAGH'S _Speech upon the Vice Chancellor's Bill_.

[4] Mr. Leigh Hunt and his brother.








SATIRICAL AND HUMOROUS POEMS.






THE INSURRECTION OF THE PAPERS.

A DREAM.


    "It would be impossible for his Royal Highness to disengage his person
    from the accumulating pile of papers that encompassed it."
    --Lord CASTLEREAGH'S _Speech upon Colonel M Mahon's Appointment,
    April 14, 1812_.


Last night I tost and turned in bed,
But could not sleep--at length I said,
"I'll think of Viscount Castlereagh,
"And of his speeches--that's the way."
And so it was, for instantly
I slept as sound as sound could be.
And then I dreamt--so dread a dream!
Fuseli has no such theme;
Lewis never wrote or borrowed
Any horror half so horrid!

Methought the Prince in whiskered state
Before me at his breakfast sate;
On one side lay unread Petitions,
On t'other, Hints from five Physicians!
_Here_ tradesmen's bills,--official papers,
Notes from my Lady, drams for vapors
_There_ plans of Saddles, tea and toast.
Death-warrants and _The Morning Post_.

  When lo! the Papers, one and all.
As if at some magician's call.
Began to flutter of themselves
From desk and table, floor and shelves,
And, cutting each some different capers,
Advanced, oh jacobinic papers!
As tho' they said, "Our sole design is
"To suffocate his Royal Highness!"
The Leader of this vile sedition
Was a huge Catholic Petition,
With grievances so full and heavy,
It threatened worst of all the bevy;
Then Common-Hall Addresses came
In swaggering sheets and took their aim
Right at the Regent's well-drest head,
As if _determined_ to be read.
Next Tradesmen's bills began to fly,
And Tradesmen's bills, we know, mount high;
Nay even Death-warrants thought they'd best
Be lively too and join the rest.

  But, oh the basest of defections!
His letter about "predilections"!--
His own dear letter, void of grace,
Now flew up in its parent's face!
Shocked with this breach of filial duty,
He just could murmur "_et_ Tu _Brute_?"
Then sunk, subdued upon the floor
At Fox's bust, to rise no more!

I waked--and prayed, with lifted hand,
"Oh! never may this Dream prove true;
"Tho' paper overwhelms the land,
  "Let it not crush the Sovereign, too!"






PARODY OF A CELEBRATED LETTER.[1]


At length, dearest Freddy, the moment is night
When, with Perceval's leave, I may throw my chains by;
And, as time now is precious, the first thing I do
Is to sit down and write a wise letter to you.

     *     *     *     *
     *     *     *     *
     *     *     *     *
     *     *     *     *
     *     *     *     *
     *     *     *     *
I meant before now to have sent you this Letter,
But Yarmouth and I thought perhaps 'twould be better
To wait till the Irish affairs are decided--
(That is, till both Houses had prosed and divided,
With all due appearance of thought and digestion)--
For, tho' Hertford House had long settled the question,
I thought it but decent, between me and you,
That the two _other_ Houses should settle it too.

  I need not remind you how cursedly bad
Our affairs were all looking, when Father went mad;[2]
A strait waistcoat on him and restrictions on me,
A more _limited_ Monarchy could not well be.
I was called upon then, in that moment of puzzle.
To choose my own Minister--just as they muzzle
A playful young bear, and then mock his disaster
By bidding him choose out his own dancing-master.

  I thought the best way, as a dutiful son,
Was to do as Old Royalty's self would have done.[3]
So I sent word to say, I would keep the whole batch in,
The same chest of tools, without cleansing or patching:
For tools of this kind, like Martinus's sconce.[4]
Would loose all their beauty if purified once;
And think--only think--if our Father should find.
Upon graciously coming again to his mind,[5]
That improvement had spoiled any favorite adviser--
That Rose was grown honest, or Westmoreland wiser--
That R--d--r was, even by one twinkle, the brighter--
Or Liverpool speeches but half a pound lighter--
What a shock to his old royal heart it would be!
No!--far were such dreams of improvement from me:
And it pleased me to find, at the House, where, you know,[6]
There's such good mutton cutlets, and strong curacoa,[7]
That the Marchioness called me a duteous old boy,
And my Yarmouth's red whiskers grew redder for joy.

  You know, my dear Freddy, how oft, if I _would_,
By the law of last sessions I _might_ have done good.
I _might_ have withheld these political noodles
From knocking their heads against hot Yankee Doodles;
I _might_ have told Ireland I pitied her lot,
Might have soothed her with hope--but you know I did not.

And my wish is, in truth, that the best of old fellows
Should not, on recovering, have cause to be jealous,
But find that while he has been laid on the shelf
We've been all of us nearly as mad as himself.
You smile at my hopes--but the Doctors and I
Are the last that can think the King _ever_ will die.[8]

  A new era's arrived[9]--tho' you'd hardly believe it--
And all things of course must be new to receive it.
New villas, new fetes (which even Waithman attends)--
New saddles, new helmets, and--why not _new friends_?

       *       *       *      *       *

I repeat it, "New Friends"--for I cannot describe
The delight I am in with this Perceval tribe.
Such capering!--Such vaporing!--Such rigor!--Such vigor!
North, South, East, and West, they have cut such a figure,
That soon they will bring the whole world round our ears,
And leave us no friends--but Old Nick and Algiers.

  When I think of the glory they've beamed on my chains,
'Tis enough quite to turn my illustrious brains.
It is true we are bankrupts in commerce and riches,
But think how we find our Allies in new breeches!
We've lost the warm hearts of the Irish, 'tis granted,
But then we've got Java, an island much wanted,
To put the last lingering few who remain,
Of the Walcheren warriors, out of their pain.
Then how Wellington fights! and how squabbles his brother!
_For_ Papists the one and _with_ Papists the other;
_One_ crushing Napoleon by taking a City,
While t'other lays waste a whole Catholic Committee.
Oh deeds of renown!--shall I boggle or flinch,
With such prospects before me? by Jove, not an inch.
No--let _England's_ affairs go to rack, if they will,
We'll look after the affairs of the _Continent_ still;
And with nothing at home but starvation and riot,
Find Lisbon in bread and keep Sicily quiet.

  I am proud to declare I have no predilections,[10]
My heart is a sieve where some scattered affections
Are just danced about for a moment or two,
And the _finer_ they are, the more sure to run thro';
Neither feel I resentments, nor wish there should come ill
To mortal--except (now I think on't) Beau Brummel,
Who threatened last year, in a superfine passion,
To cut _me_ and bring the old King into fashion.
This is all I can lay to my conscience at present;
When such is my temper, so neutral, so pleasant,
So royally free from all troublesome feelings,
So little encumbered by faith in my dealings
(And that I'm consistent the world will allow,
What I was at Newmarket the same I am now).
When such are my merits (you know I hate cracking),
I hope, like the Vender of Best Patent Blacking,
"To meet with the generous and kind approbation
"Of a candid, enlightened, and liberal nation."

  By the by, ere I close this magnificent Letter,
(No man, except Pole, could have writ you a better,)
'Twould please me if those, whom I've humbugged so long[11]
With the notion (good men!) that I knew right from wrong,
Would a few of them join me--mind, only a few--
To let _too_ much light in on me never would do;
But even Grey's brightness shan't make me afraid,
While I've Camden and Eldon to fly to for shade;
Nor will Holland's clear intellect do us much harm,
While there's Westmoreland near him to weaken the charm.
As for Moira's high spirit, if aught can subdue it.
Sure joining with Hertford and Yarmouth will do it!
Between R-d-r and Wharton let Sheridan sit,
And the fogs will soon quench even Sheridan's wit:
And against all the pure public feeling that glows
Even in Whitbread himself we've a Host in George Rose!
So in short if they wish to have Places, they may,
And I'll thank you to tell all these matters to Grey.[12]
Who, I doubt not, will write (as there's no time to lose)
By the twopenny post to tell Grenville the news;
And now, dearest Fred (tho' I've no predilection),
Believe me yours always with truest affection.

P.S. A copy of this is to Perceval going[13]
Good Lord, how St. Stephen's will ring with his crowing!


[1] Letter from his Royal Highness the Prince Regent to the Duke of York,
Feb. 13, 1812.

[2] "I think it hardly necessary to call your recollection to the recent
circumstances under which I assumed the authority delegated to me by
Parliament.--_Prince's Letter_.

[3] "My sense of duty to our Royal father solely decided that choice."--
_Ibid_.

[4] The antique shield of Martinus Scriblerus, which, upon scouring,
turned out to be only an old sconce.

[5] "I waived any personal gratification, in order that his Majesty might
resume, on his restoration to health, every power and prerogative," etc.--
_Prince's Letter_.

[6] "And I have the satisfaction of knowing that such was the opinion of
persons for whose judgment," etc--_Ibid_.

[7] The letter-writer's favorite luncheon.

[8] I certainly am the last person in the kingdom to whom it can be
permitted to despair of our royal father's recovery."--_Prince's
Letter_.

[9] "A new era is now arrived, and I cannot but reflect with
satisfaction," etc.--_Ibid_.

[10] "I have no predilections to indulge,--no resentments to gratify."--
_Prince's Letter_.

[11] "I cannot conclude without expressing the gratification I should feel
if some of those persons with whom the early habits of my public life were
formed would strengthen my hands, and constitute a part of my
government"--
_Prince's Letter_.

[12] "You are authorized to communicate these sentiments to Lord Grey,
who, I have no doubt, will make them known to Lord Grenville."--
_Prince's Letter_.

[13] "I shall send a copy of this letter immediately to Mr. Perceval."-
_Prince's Letter_.






ANACREONTIC

TO A PLUMASSIER.


Fine and feathery artisan,
Best of Plumists (if you can
With your art so far presume)
Make for me a Prince's Plume--
Feathers soft and feathers rare,
Such as suits a Prince to wear.

  First thou downiest of men,
Seek me out a fine Pea-hen;
Such a Hen, so tall and grand,
As by Juno's side might stand,
If there were no cocks at hand.
Seek her feathers, soft as down,
Fit to shine on Prince's crown;
If thou canst not find them, stupid!
Ask the way of Prior's Cupid.

Ranging these in order due,
Pluck me next an old Cuckoo;
Emblem of the happy fates
Of easy, kind, cornuted mates.
Pluck him well--be sure you do--
_Who_ wouldn't be an old Cuckoo,
Thus to have his plumage blest,
Beaming on a Royal crest?

  Bravo, Plumist!--now what bird
Shall we find for Plume the third?
You must get a learned Owl,
Bleakest of black-letter fowl--
Bigot bird that hates the light,[1]
Foe to all that's fair and bright.
Seize his quills, (so formed to pen
Books[2] that shun the search of men;
Books that, far from every eye,
In "sweltered venom sleeping" lie,)
Stick them in between the two,
Proud Pea-hen and Old Cuckoo.
Now you have the triple feather,
Bind the kindred stems together
With a silken tie whose hue
Once was brilliant Buff and Blue;
Sullied now--alas, how much!
Only fit for Yarmouth's touch.

  There--enough--thy task is done;
Present, worthy George's Son;
Now, beneath, in letters neat,
Write "I SERVE," and all's complete.


[1] Perceval.

[2] In allusion to "the Book" which created such a sensation at that
period.






EXTRACTS

FROM THE DIARY OF A POLITICIAN.


_Wednesday_.

Thro' Manchester Square took a canter just now--
Met the _old yellow chariot_[1] and made a low bow.
This I did, of course, thinking 'twas loyal and civil,
But got such a look--oh! 'twas black as the devil!
How unlucky!--_incog_. he was travelling about,
And I like a noodle, must go find him out.
_Mem_.--when next by the old yellow chariot I ride,
To remember there _is_ nothing princely inside.

_Thursday_.

At Levee to-day made another sad blunder--
What _can_ be come over me lately, I wonder?
The Prince was as cheerful as if all his life
He had never been troubled with Friends or a Wife--
"Fine weather," says he--to which I, who _must_ prate,
Answered, "Yes, Sir, but _changeable_ rather, of late."
He took it, I fear, for he lookt somewhat gruff,
And handled his new pair of whiskers so rough,
That before all the courtiers I feared they'd come off,
And then, Lord, how Geramb[2] would triumphantly scoff!

_Mem_.--to buy for son Dicky some unguent or lotion
To nourish his whiskers--sure road to promotion![3]

_Saturday_.

Last night a Concert--vastly gay--
Given by Lady Castlereagh.
My Lord loves music, and we know
Has "two strings always to his bow."[4]
In choosing songs, the Regent named
"_Had I a heart for falsehood framed_."
While gentle Hertford begged and prayed
For "_Young I am and sore afraid_."


[1] The _incog_. vehicle of the Prince.

[2] Baron Geramb, the rival of his R. H. in whiskers.

[3] England is not the only country where merit of this kind is noticed
and rewarded. "I remember," says Tavernier, "to have seen one of the King
of Persia's porters, whose mustaches were so long that he could tie them
behind his neck, for which reason he had a double pension."

[4] A rhetorical figure used by Lord Castlereagh, in one of his speeches.






EPIGRAM.


What news to-day?--"Oh! worse and worse--
"Mac[1] is the Prince's Privy Purse!"--
The Prince's _Purse_! no, no, you fool,
You mean the Prince's _Ridicule_.


[1] Colonel M'Mahon.






KING CRACK[1] AND HIS IDOLS.

WRITTEN AFTER THE LATE NEGOTIATION FOR A NEW MINISTRY.


King Crack was the best of all possible Kings,
  (At least, so his Courtiers would swear to you gladly,)
But Crack now and then would do heterodox things,
  And at last took to worshipping _Images_ sadly.

Some broken-down Idols, that long had been placed
  In his father's old _Cabinet_, pleased him so much,
That he knelt down and worshipt, tho'--such was his taste!--
  They were monstrous to look at and rotten to touch.

And these were the beautiful Gods of King Crack!--
  But his People disdaining to worship such things
Cried aloud, one and all, "Come, your Godships must pack--
  "You'll not do for _us_, tho' you _may_ do for _Kings_."

Then trampling these images under their feet,
  They sent Crack a petition, beginning "Great Caesar!
"We're willing to worship; but only entreat
  "That you'll find us some _decenter_ godheads than these are."

"I'll try," says King Crack--so they furnisht him models
  Of better shaped Gods but he sent them all back;
Some were chiselled too fine, some had heads stead of noddles,
  In short they were all _much_ too godlike for Crack.

So he took to his darling old Idols again,
  And just mending their legs and new bronzing their faces,
In open defiance of Gods and of man,
  Set the monsters up grinning once more in their places.

[1] One of these antediluvian Princes, with whom Manetho and Whiston seem
so intimately acquainted. If we had the Memoirs of Thoth, from which
Manetho compiled his History, we should find, I dare say, that Crack was
only a Regent, and that he, perhaps, succeeded Typhon, who (as Whiston
says) was the last King of the Antediluvian Dynasty.






WHAT'S MY THOUGHT LIKE?


_Quest_. Why is a Pump like Viscount Castlereagh?
_Answ_. Because it is a slender thing of wood,
  That up and down its awkward arm doth sway,
  And coolly spout and spout and spout away,
In one weak, washy, everlasting flood!






EPIGRAM.

DIALOGUE BETWEEN A CATHOLIC DELEGATE AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF CUMBERLAND.


Said his Highness to Ned,[1] with that grim face of his,
  "Why refuse us the _Veto_, dear Catholic Neddy?"
"Because, Sir," said Ned, looking full in his phiz,
  "You're forbidding enough, in all conscience, already!"


[1] Edward Byrne the head of the Delegates of the Irish Catholics.






WREATHS FOR THE MINISTERS.

AN ANACREONTIC.


Hither, Flora, Queen of Flowers!
Haste thee from old Brompton's bowers--
Or, (if sweeter that abode)
From the King's well-odored Road,
Where each little nursery bud
Breathes the dust and quaffs the mud.
Hither come and gayly twine
Brightest herbs and flowers of thine
Into wreaths for those who rule us,
Those who rule and (some say) fool us--
Flora, sure, will love to please
England's Household Deities![1]

  First you must then, willy-nilly,
Fetch me many an orange lily--
Orange of the darkest dye
Irish Gifford can supply;--
Choose me out the longest sprig,
And stick it in old Eldon's wig.

  Find me next a Poppy posy,
Type of his harangues so dozy,
Garland gaudy, dull and cool,
To crown the head of Liverpool.
'Twill console his brilliant brows
For that loss of laurel boughs,
Which they suffered (what a pity!)
On the road to Paris City.

  Next, our Castlereagh to crown,
Bring me from the County Down,
Withered Shamrocks which have been
Gilded o'er to hide the green--
(Such as Headfort brought away
From Pall-Mall last Patrick's Day)[2]--
Stitch the garland thro' and thro'
With shabby threads _of every hue_--
And as, Goddess!--_entre nous_--
His Lordship loves (tho' best of men)
A little _torture_ now and then,
Crimp the leaves, thou first of Syrens,
Crimp them with thy curling-irons.

  That's enough--away, away--
Had I leisure, I could say
How the _oldest rose_ that grows
Must be pluckt to deck Old Rose--
How the Doctor's[3] brow should smile
Crowned with wreaths of camomile.
But time presses--to thy taste
I leave the rest, so, prithee, haste!


[1] The ancients, in like manner, crowned their Lares, or
Household Gods.

[2] Certain tinsel imitations of the Shamrock which are
distributed by the Servants of Carleton House every Patrick's Day.

[3] The _sobriquet_ given to Lord Sidmouth.






EPIGRAM.

DIALOGUE BETWEEN A DOWAGER AND HER MAID ON THE NIGHT OF LORD YARMOUTH'S
FETE.


"I want the Court Guide," said my lady, "to look
  "If the House, Seymour Place, be at 30. or 20."--
"We've lost the _Court Guide_, Ma'am, but here's _the Red Book_.
  "Where you'll find, I dare say, Seymour _Places_ in plenty!"






HORACE, ODE XI. LIB. II.

FREELY TRANSLATED BY THE PRINCE REGENT.[1]


Come, Yarmouth, my boy, never trouble your brains,
  About what your old crony,
  The Emperor Boney,
Is doing or brewing on Muscovy's plains;

Nor tremble, my lad, at the state of our granaries:
  Should there come famine,
  Still plenty to cram in
You always shall have, my dear Lord of the Stannaries.

Brisk let us revel, while revel we may;
For the gay bloom of fifty soon passes away,
  And then people get fat,
  And infirm, and--all that,
And a wig (I confess it) so clumsily sits,
That it frightens the little Loves out of their wits;

Thy whiskers, too, Yarmouth!--alas, even they,
  Tho' so rosy they burn,
  Too quickly must turn
(What a heart-breaking change for thy whiskers!) to Grey.

Then why, my Lord Warden, oh! why should you fidget
  Your mind about matters you don't understand?
Or why should you write yourself down for an idiot,
  Because "_you_," forsooth, "_have the pen in your hand_!"

  Think, think how much better
  Than scribbling a letter,
  (Which both you and I
  Should avoid by the by,)
How much pleasanter 'tis to sit under the bust
  Of old Charley,[2] my friend here, and drink like a new one;

While Charley looks sulky and frowns at me, just
  As the Ghost in the Pantomime frowns at Don Juan.
  To Crown us, Lord Warden,
  In Cumberland's garden
Grows plenty of _monk's hood_ in venomous sprigs:
  While Otto of Roses
  Refreshing all noses
Shall sweetly exhale from our
    whiskers and wigs.

What youth of the Household will cool our Noyau
  In that streamlet delicious,
  That down midst the dishes,
  All full of gold fishes,
  Romantic doth flow?--
  Or who will repair
Unto Manchester Square,
And see if the gentle _Marchesa_ be there?

  Go--bid her haste hither,
  And let her bring with her
The newest No-Popery Sermon that's going--
Oh! let her come, with her dark tresses flowing,
All gentle and juvenile, curly and gay,
In the manner of--Ackerman's Dresses for May!


[1] This and the following are extracted from a Work, which may, some time
or other, meet the eye of the Public--entitled "Odes of Horace, done into
English by several Persons of Fashion."

[2] Charles Fox.






HORACE, ODE XXII. LIB. I.

FREELY TRANSLATED BY LORD ELDON.


The man who keeps a conscience pure,
  (If not his own, at least his Prince's,)
Thro' toil and danger walks secure,
  Looks big and black and never winces.

No want has he of sword or dagger,
  Cockt hat or ringlets of Geramb;
Tho' Peers may laugh and Papists swagger,
  He doesn't care one single damn.

Whether midst Irish chairmen going.
  Or thro' St. Giles's alleys dim,
Mid drunken Sheelahs, blasting, blowing,
  No matter, 'tis all one to him.

For instance, I, one evening late,
  Upon a gay vacation sally,
Singing the praise of Church and State,
  Got (God knows how) to Cranbourne Alley.

When lo! an Irish Papist darted
  Across my path, gaunt, grim, and big--
I did but frown and off he started,
  Scared at me even without my wig.

Yet a more fierce and raw-boned dog
  Goes not to Mass in Dublin City,
Nor shakes his brogue o'er Allen's Bog,
  Nor spouts in Catholic Committee.

Oh! place me midst O'Rourkes, O'Tooles,
  The ragged royal-blood of Tara;
Or place me where Dick Martin rules
  The houseless wilds of Connemara;[1]

Of Church and State I'll warble still,
  Though even Dick Martin's self should grumble;
Sweet Church and State, like Jack and Jill,
So lovingly upon a hill--
  Ah! ne'er like Jack and Jill to tumble![2]


[1] I must here remark, that the said Dick Martin being a very good
fellow, it was not at all fair to make a "_malus Jupiter_" of him.

[2] There cannot be imagined a more happy illustration of the
inseparability of Church and State, and their (what is called) "standing
and falling together," than this ancient apologue of Jack and Jill. Jack,
of course, represents the State in this ingenious little Allegory.

    Jack fell down,
    And broke his _Crown_,
  And Jill came tumbling after.






THE NEW COSTUME OF THE MINISTERS.


    --_nova monstra creavit_.
    OVID. "_Metamorph_." 1. i. v. 417.


Having sent off the troops of brave Major Camac,
With a swinging horse-tail at each valorous back.
And such helmets, God bless us! as never deckt any
Male creature before, except Signor Giovanni--
"Let's see," said the Regent (like Titus, perplext
With the duties of empire,) "whom _shall_ I dress next?"

  He looks in the glass--but perfection is there,
Wig, whiskers, and chin-tufts all right to a hair;[1]
Not a single _ex_-curl on his forehead he traces--
For curls are like Ministers, strange as the case is,
The _falser_ they are, the more firm in their places.
His coat he next views--but the coat who could doubt?
For his Yarmouth's own Frenchified hand cut it out;
Every pucker and seam were made matters of state,
And a Grand Household Council was held on each plait.

  Then whom shall he dress? shall he new-rig his brother,
Great Cumberland's Duke, with some kickshaw or other?
And kindly invent him more Christianlike shapes
For his feather-bed neckcloths and pillory capes.
Ah! no--here his ardor would meet with delays,
For the Duke had been lately packt up in new Stays,
So complete for the winter, he saw very plain
'Twould be devilish hard work to _un_pack him again.

  So what's to be done?--there's the Ministers, bless 'em!--
As he _made_ the puppets, why shouldn't he _dress_ 'em?
"An excellent thought!--call the tailors--be nimble--
"Let Cum bring his spy-glass, and Hertford her thimble;
"While Yarmouth shall give us, in spite of all quizzers,
"The last Paris cut with his true Gallic scissors."

  So saying, he calls Castlereagh and the rest
Of his heaven-born statesmen, to come and be drest.
While Yarmouth, with snip-like and brisk expedition,
Cuts up all at once a large Catholic Petition
In long tailors' measures, (the Prince crying "Well-done!")
And first _puts in hand_ my Lord Chancellor Eldon.


[1] That model of Princes, the Emperor Commodus, was particularly
luxurious in the dressing and ornamenting of his hair. His conscience,
however, would not suffer him to trust himself with a barber, and he used,
accordingly, to burn off his beard.






CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN A LADY AND GENTLEMAN,

UPON THE ADVANTAGE OF (WHAT IS CALLED) "HAVING LAW[1] ON ONE'S SIDE."


_The Gentleman's Proposal_.

      _Legge aurea,
    S'ei piace, ei lice_."

Come fly to these arms nor let beauties so bloomy
  To one frigid owner be tied;
Your prudes may revile and your old ones look gloomy,
  But, dearest, we've _Law_ on our side.

Oh! think the delight of two lovers congenial,
  Whom no dull decorums divide;
Their error how sweet and their raptures how _venial_,
  When once they've got Law on their side.

'Tis a thing that in every King's reign has been done too:
  Then why should it now be decried?
If the Father has done it why shouldn't the Son too?
  For so argues Law on our side.

And even should our sweet violation of duty
  By cold-blooded jurors be tried,
They can _but_ bring it in "misfortune," my beauty,
  As long as we've Law on our side.

_The Lady's Answer_.

Hold, hold, my good Sir, go a little more slowly;
  For grant me so faithless a bride,
Such sinners as we, are a little too _lovely_,
  To hope to have Law on our side.

Had you been a great Prince, to whose star shining o'er 'em
  The People should look for their guide,
Then your Highness (and welcome!) might kick down decorum--
  You'd always have Law on your side.

Were you even an old Marquis, in mischief grown hoary,
  Whose heart tho' it long ago died
To the _pleasures_ of vice, is alive to its _glory_--
  You still would have Law on your side.

But for _you_, Sir, Crim. Con. is a path full of troubles;
  By _my_ advice therefore abide,
And leave the pursuit to those Princes and Nobles
  Who have _such_ a _Law_ on their side.


[1] In allusion to Lord Ellenborough.






OCCASIONAL ADDRESS

FOR THE OPENING OF THE NEW THEATRE OF ST. STEPHEN,

INTENDED TO HAVE BEEN SPOKEN BY THE PROPRIETOR IN FULL COSTUME, ON THE
24TH OF NOVEMBER, 1812.


This day a New House for your edification
We open, most thinking and right-headed nation!
Excuse the materials--tho' rotten and bad,
They're the best that for money just now could be had;
And if _echo_ the charm of such houses should be,
You will find it shall echo my speech to a T.

  As for actors, we've got the old Company yet,
The same motley, odd, tragicomical set;
And considering they all were but clerks t'other day,
It is truly surprising how well they can play.
Our Manager,[1] (he who in Ulster was nurst,
And sung _Erin go Bragh_ for the galleries first,
But on finding _Pitt_-interest a much better thing,
Changed his note of a sudden to _God save the King_,)
Still wise as he's blooming and fat as he's clever,
Himself and his speeches as _lengthy_ as ever.
Here offers you still the full use of his breath,
Your devoted and long-winded proser till death.

  You remember last season, when things went perverse on.
We had to engage (as a block to rehearse on)
One Mr. Vansittart, a good sort of person,
Who's also employed for this season to play,
In "Raising the Wind," and "the Devil to Pay."[2]
We expect too--at least we've been plotting and planning--
To get that great actor from Liverpool, Canning;
And, as at the Circus there's nothing attracts
Like a good _single combat_ brought in 'twixt the acts,
If the Manager should, with the help of Sir Popham,
Get up new _diversions_ and Canning should stop 'em,
Who knows but we'll have to announce in the papers,
"Grand fight--second time--with additional capers."

  Be your taste for the ludicrous, humdrum, or sad,
There is plenty of each in this House to be had.
Where our Manager ruleth, there weeping will be,
For a _dead hand at tragedy_ always was he;
And there never was dealer in dagger and cup,
Who so _smilingly_ got all his tragedies up.
His powers poor Ireland will never forget,
And the widows of Walcheren weep o'er them yet.

  So much for the actors;--for secret machinery,
Traps, and deceptions, and shifting of scenery,
Yarmouth and Cum are the best we can find,
To transact all that trickery business behind.
The former's employed too to teach us French jigs,
Keep the whiskers in curl and look after the wigs.

  In taking my leave now, I've only to say,
A few _Seats in the House_, not as yet sold away,
May be had of the Manager, Pat Castlereagh.


[1] Lord Castlereagh.

[2] He had recently been appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer.






THE SALE OF THE TOOLS.


    _Instrumenta regni_.--TACITUS.


Here's a choice set of Tools for you, Ge'mmen and Ladies,
They'll fit you quite handy, whatever your trade is;
(Except it be _Cabinet-making_;--no doubt,
In that delicate service they're rather worn out;
Tho' their owner, bright youth! if he'd had his own will,
Would have bungled away with them joyously still.)
You see they've been pretty well _hackt_--and alack!
What tool is there job after job will not hack?
Their edge is but dullish it must be confest,
And their temper, like Ellenborough's, none of the best;
But you'll find them good hardworking Tools, upon trying,
Were't but for their _brass_ they are well worth the buying;
They're famous for making _blinds_, _sliders_, and _screens_,
And are some of them excellent _turning_ machines.

  The first Tool I'll put up (they call it a _Chancellor_),
Heavy concern to both purchaser _and_ seller.
Tho' made of pig iron yet worthy of note 'tis,
'Tis ready to _melt_ at a half minute's notice.[1]
Who bids? Gentle buyer! 'twill turn as thou shapest;
'Twill make a good thumb-screw to torture a Papist;
Or else a cramp-iron to stick in the wall
Of some church that old women are fearful will fall;
Or better, perhaps, (for I'm guessing at random,)
A heavy _drag-chain_ for some Lawyer's old _Tandem_.
Will nobody bid? It is cheap, I am sure, Sir--
Once, twice,--going, going,--thrice, gone!--it is yours, Sir.
To pay ready money you sha'n't be distrest,
As a _bill_ at _long date_ suits the Chancellor best.

  Come, where's the next Tool?--
Oh! 'tis here in a trice--
This implement, Ge'mmen, at first was a _Vice_;
(A tenacious and close sort of tool that will let
Nothing out of its grasp it once happens to get;)
But it since has received a new coating of _Tin_,
Bright enough for a Prince to behold himself in.
Come, what shall we say for it? briskly! bid on,
We'll the sooner get rid of it--going--quite gone.
God be with it, such tools, if not quickly knockt down,
Might at last cost their owner--how much? why, a _Crown_!

  The next Tool I'll set up has hardly had handsel or
Trial as yet and is _also_ a Chancellor--
Such dull things as these should be sold by the gross;
Yet, dull as it is, 'twill be found to _shave close_,
And like _other_ close shavers, some courage to gather,
This _blade_ first began by a flourish on _leather_.[2]
You shall have it for nothing--then, marvel with me
At the terrible _tinkering_ work there must be,
Where a Tool such as this is (I'll leave you to judge it)
Is placed by ill luck at the top of _the Budget_!


[1] An allusion to Lord Eldon's lachrymose tendencies.

[2] Of the taxes proposed by Mr. Vansittart, that principally
opposed in Parliament was the additional duty on leather."--_Ann.
Register_.






LITTLE MAN AND LITTLE SOUL.

A BALLAD.

_To the tune of "There was a little man, and he wooed a little
maid."_

DEDICATED TO THE RT. HON. CHARLES ABBOT.


    _arcades ambo et cantare pares_


1813.


There was a little Man and he had a little Soul,
And he said, "Little Soul, let us try, try, try.
  "Whether it's within our reach
  "To make up a little Speech,
"Just between little you and little I, I, I,
  "Just between little you and little I!"

  Then said his little Soul,
    Peeping from her little hole,
"I protest, little Man, you are stout, stout, stout,
    "But, if it's not uncivil,
    "Pray tell me what the devil,
"Must our little, little speech be about, bout, bout,
  "Must our little, little speech be about?"

    The little Man lookt big,
    With the assistance of his wig,
And he called his little Soul to order, order, order,
    Till she feared he'd make her jog in
    To jail, like Thomas Croggan,
(As she wasn't Duke or Earl) to reward her, ward her, ward her,
  As she wasn't Duke or Earl, to reward her.

    The little Man then spoke,
    "Little Soul, it is no joke,
"For as sure as Jacky Fuller loves a sup, sup, sup,
    "I will tell the Prince and People
    "What I think of Church and Steeple.
"And my little patent plan to prop them up, up, up,
  "And my little patent plan to prop them up."

    Away then, cheek by jowl,
    Little Man and little Soul
Went and spoke their little speech to a tittle, tittle, tittle,
    And the world all declare
    That this priggish little pair
Never yet in all their lives lookt so little, little, little.
  Never yet in all their lives lookt so little!






REINFORCEMENTS FOR LORD WELLINGTON.


    _suosque tibi commendat, Troja Penates hos cape fatorum comites_.
    VERGIL.


1813.


As recruits in these times are not easily got
And the Marshal _must_ have them--pray, why should we not,
As the last and, I grant it, the worst of our loans to him,
Ship off the Ministry, body and bones to him?
There's not in all England, I'd venture to swear,
Any men we could half so conveniently spare;
And tho' they've been helping the French for years past,
We may thus make them useful to England at last.
Castlereagh in our sieges might save some disgraces,
Being used to the _taking_ and _keeping_ of _places_;
And Volunteer Canning, still ready for joining,
Might show off his talent for sly _under-mining_.
Could the Household but spare us its glory and pride,
Old Headfort at _horn-works_ again might be tried,
And as Chief Justice make a _bold charge_ at his side:
While Vansittart could victual the troops _upon tick_,
And the Doctor look after the baggage and sick.

  Nay, I do not see why the great Regent himself
Should in times such as these stay at home on the shelf:
Tho' thro' narrow defiles he's not fitted to pass,
Yet who could resist, if he bore down _en masse_?
And tho' oft of an evening perhaps he might prove,
Like our Spanish confederates, "unable to move,"[1]
Yet there's _one_ thing in war of advantage unbounded,
Which is, that he could not with ease be _surrounded_.

 In my next I shall sing of their arms and equipment:
At present no more, but--good luck to the shipment!


[1] The character given to the Spanish soldier, in Sir John
Murray's memorable despatch.






HORACE, ODE I. LIB. III.

A FRAGMENT.


    _odi profanum, valgus et arceo;
    favete linguis: carmina non prius
         audila Musarum sacerdos
          virginibus puerisque canto.
    regum timendorum in proprios greges,
    reges in ipsos imperium est Jovis_.


1813.


I hate thee, oh, Mob, as my Lady hates delf;
  To Sir Francis I'll give up thy claps and thy hisses,
Leave old Magna Charta to shift for itself,
  And, like Godwin, write books for young masters and misses.
Oh! it _is_ not high rank that can make the heart merry,
  Even monarchs themselves are not free from mishap:
Tho' the Lords of Westphalia must quake before Jerry,
  Poor Jerry himself has to quake before Nap.






HORACE, ODE XXXVIII. LIB. I.

A FRAGMENT.


    _persico odi, puer, adparatus;
    displicent nexae philyra coronae;_
    mitte sectari, _Rosa_ quo locorum
      sera moretur.


TRANSLATED BY A TREASURY CLERK, WHILE WAITING DINNER FOR THE RIGHT HON.
GEORGE ROBE.


Boy, tell the Cook that I hate all nicknackeries.
Fricassees, vol-au-vents, puffs, and gim-crackeries--
Six by the Horse-Guards!--old Georgy is late--
But come--lay the table-cloth--zounds! do not wait,
Nor stop to inquire, while the dinner is staying,
At which of his places Old Rose is delaying!

       *       *       *       *       *






IMPROMPTU.

UPON BEING OBLIGED TO LEAVE A PLEASANT PARTY, FROM THE WANT OF A PAIR OF
BREECHES TO DRESS FOR DINNER IN.

1810.


Between Adam and me the great difference is,
  Tho' a paradise each has been forced to resign,
That he never wore breeches, till turned out of his,
  While for want of my breeches, I'm banisht from mine.






LORD WELLINGTON AND THE MINISTERS.

1813.


So gently in peace Alcibiades smiled,
  While in battle he shone forth so terribly grand,
That the emblem they graved on his seal, was a child
  With a thunderbolt placed in its innocent hand.

Oh Wellington, long as such Ministers wield
Your magnificent arm, the same emblem will do;
For while _they_'re in the Council and _you_ in the Field.
We've the _babies_ in _them_, and the _thunder_ in   _you_!




The following trifles, having enjoyed in their circulation through the
newspapers all the celebrity and length of life to which they were
entitled, would have been suffered to pass quietly into oblivion without
pretending to any further distinction, had they not already been
published, in a collective form, both in London and Paris, and, in each
case, been mixed up with a number of other productions, to which, whatever
may be their merit, the author of the following pages has no claim. A
natural desire to separate his own property, worthless as it is, from that
of others, is, he begs to say, the chief motive of the publication of this
volume.






TO SIR HUDSON LOWE.


    _effare causam nominis,
    utrumne mores hoc tui
    nomen dedere, an nomen hoc
    secuta morum regula_. AUSONIUS.


1816.


  Sir Hudson Lowe, Sir Hudson _Low_,
(By name, and ah! by nature so)
  As thou art fond of persecutions,
Perhaps thou'st read, or heard repeated,
How Captain Gulliver was treated,
  When thrown among the Lilliputians.

They tied him down--these little men did--
And having valiantly ascended
  Upon the Mighty Man's protuberance,
They did so strut!--upon my soul,
It must have been extremely droll
  To see their pigmy pride's exuberance!

And how the doughty mannikins
Amused themselves with sticking pins
  And needles in the great man's breeches:
And how some _very_ little things,
That past for Lords, on scaffoldings
  Got up and worried him with speeches,

Alas, alas! that it should happen
To mighty men to be caught napping!--
  Tho' different too these persecutions;
For Gulliver, _there_, took the nap,
While, _here_, the _Nap_, oh sad mishap,
  Is taken by the Lilliputians!






AMATORY COLLOQUY BETWEEN BANK AND GOVERNMENT.

1826.


BANK.

Is all then forgotten? those amorous pranks
  You and I in our youth, my dear Government, played;
When you called me the fondest, the truest of Banks,
  And enjoyed the endearing _advances_ I made!

When left to ourselves, unmolested and free,
  To do all that a dashing young couple should do,
A law against _paying_ was laid upon me,
  But none against _owing_, dear helpmate, on you.

And is it then vanisht?--that "hour (as Othello
  So happily calls it) of Love and _Direction_?"
And must we, like other fond doves, my dear fellow,
  Grow good in our old age and cut the connection?

GOVERNMENT.

Even so, my beloved Mrs. Bank, it must be;
  This paying in cash plays the devil with wooing:
We've both had our swing, but I plainly foresee
  There must soon be a stop to our _bill_ing and cooing.

Propagation in reason--a small child or two--
  Even Reverend Malthus himself is a friend to;
The issue of some folks is moderate and few--
  But _ours_, my dear corporate Bank, there's no end to!

So--hard tho' it be on a pair, who've already
  Disposed of so many pounds, shillings and pence;
And in spite of that pink of prosperity, Freddy,[1]
  So lavish of cash and so sparing of sense--

The day is at hand, my Papyria[2] Venus,
  When--high as we once used to carry our capers--
Those soft _billet-doux_ we're now passing between us,
  Will serve but to keep Mrs. Coutts in curl-papers:

And when--if we _still_ must continue our love,
  (After all that has past)--our amour, it is clear,
Like that which Miss Danaee managed with Jove,
  Must all be transacted in _bullion_, my dear!

_February, 1826_.


[1] Honorable Fredrick Robinson.

[2] So called, to distinguish her from the Aure or _Golden_ Venus.






DIALOGUE BETWEEN A SOVEREIGN AND A ONE POUND NOTE.


    _"o ego non felix, quam tu fugis, ut pavet acres
    agna lupos, capreaeque leones."_--HOR.


    Said a Sovereign to a Note,
    In the pocket of his coat,
Where they met in a neat purse of leather,
    "How happens it, I prithee,
    "That, tho' I'm wedded _with_ thee,
"Fair Pound, we can never live together?

    "Like your sex, fond of _change_
    "With Silver you can range,
"And of lots of young sixpences be mother;
    "While with _me_--upon my word,
    "Not my Lady and my Lord
"Of Westmouth see so little of each other!"

    The indignant Note replied
    (Lying crumpled by his side),
"Shame, shame, it is _yourself_ that roam, Sir--
    "One cannot look askance,
    "But, whip! you're off to France,
"Leaving nothing but old rags at home, Sir.

    "Your scampering began
    "From the moment Parson Van,
"Poor man, made us _one_ in Love's fetter;
    "'For better or for worse'
    "Is the usual marriage curse,
"But ours is all 'worse' and no 'better.'

    "In vain are laws past,
    "There's nothing holds you fast,
"Tho' you know, sweet Sovereign, I adore you--
    "At the smallest hint in life,
    "You forsake your lawful wife,
"As _other_ Sovereigns did before you.

    "I flirt with Silver, true--
    "But what can ladies do,
"When disowned by their natural protectors?
    "And as to falsehood, stuff!
    "I shall soon be _false_ enough,
"When I get among those wicked Bank Directors."

    The Sovereign, smiling on her,
    Now swore upon his honor,
To be henceforth domestic and loyal;
    But, within an hour or two,
    Why--I sold him to a Jew,
And he's now at No. 10, Palais Royal.






AN EXPOSTULATION TO LORD KING.


    _"quem das finem, rex magne, laborum?"_
    VERGIL.


1826.


How _can_ you, my Lord, thus delight to torment all
  The Peers of the realm about cheapening their corn,[1]
When you know, if one hasn't a very high rental,
  'Tis hardly worth while being very high born?

Why bore them so rudely, each night of your life,
  On a question, my Lord, there's so much to abhor in?
A question-like asking one, "How is your wife?"--
  At once so confounded _domestic_ and _foreign_.

As to weavers, no matter how poorly they feast;
  But Peers and such animals, fed up for show,
(Like the well-physickt elephant, lately deceased,)
  Take a wonderful quantum of cramming, you know.

You might see, my dear Baron, how bored and distrest
  Were their high noble hearts by your merciless tale,
When the force of the agony wrung even a jest
  From the frugal Scotch wit of my Lord Lauderdale![2]

Bright Peer! to whom Nature and Berwickshire gave
  A humor endowed with effects so provoking,
That when the whole House looks unusually grave
  You may always conclude that Lord Lauderdale's joking!

And then, those unfortunate weavers of Perth--
  Not to know the vast difference Providence dooms
Between weavers of Perth and Peers of high birth,
  'Twixt those who have _heir_looms, and those who've but looms!

"To talk _now_ of starving!"--as great Athol said[3]--
  (And the nobles all cheered and the bishops all wondered,)
"When some years ago he and others had fed
  "Of these same hungry devils about fifteen hundred!"

It follows from hence--and the Duke's very words
  Should be publisht wherever poor rogues of this craft are--
That weavers, _once_ rescued from starving by Lords,
  Are bound to be starved by said Lords ever after.

When Rome was uproarious, her knowing patricians
  Made "Bread and the Circus" a cure for each _row_;
But not so the plan of _our_ noble physicians,
  "No Bread and the Treadmill,"'s the regimen now.

So cease, my dear Baron of Ockham, your prose,
  As I shall my poetry--_neither_ convinces;
And all we have spoken and written but shows,
  When you tread on a nobleman's _corn_,[4]
how he winces.


[1] See the proceedings of the Lords, Wednesday, March 1, 1826,
when Lord King was severely reproved by several of the noble Peers, for
making so many speeches against the Corn Laws.

[2] This noble Earl said, that "when he heard the petition came
from ladies' boot and shoe-makers, he thought it must be against the
'corns' which they inflicted on the fair sex."

[3] The Duke of Athol said, that "at a former period, when these
weavers were in great distress, the landed interest of Perth had supported
1500 of them, it was a poor return for these very men now to petition
against the persons who had fed them."

[4] An improvement, we flatter ourselves, on Lord L.'s joke.






THE SINKING FUND CRIED.


    "Now what, we ask, is become of this Sinking Fund--these eight
    millions of surplus above expenditure, which were to reduce the
    interest of the national debt by the amount of four hundred thousand
    pounds annually? Where, indeed, is the Sinking Fund itself?"
    --_The Times_.


    Take your bell, take your bell,
    Good Crier, and tell
To the Bulls and the Bears, till their ears are stunned,
    That, lost or stolen,
    Or fallen thro' a hole in
The Treasury floor, is the Sinking Fund!

    O yes! O yes!
    Can anybody guess
What the deuce has become of this Treasury wonder?
    It has Pitt's name on't,
    All brass, in the front,
And Robinson's scrawled with a goose-quill under.

    Folks well knew what
    Would soon be its lot,
When Frederick and Jenky set hob-nobbing,[1]
    And said to each other,
    "Suppose, dear brother,
"We make this funny old Fund worth robbing."

    We are come, alas!
    To a very pretty pass--
Eight Hundred Millions of score, to pay,

    With but Five in the till,
    To discharge the bill,
And even that Five, too, whipt away!

    Stop thief! stop thief!--
    From the Sub to the Chief,
These _Gemmen_ of Finance are plundering cattle--
    Call the watch--call Brougham,
    Tell Joseph Hume,
That best of Charleys, to spring his rattle.

    Whoever will bring
    This aforesaid thing
To the well-known House of Robinson and Jenkin,
    Shall be paid, with thanks,
    In the notes of banks,
Whose Funds have all learned "the Art of Sinking."

    O yes! O yes!
    Can anybody guess
What the devil has become of this Treasury wonder?
    It has Pitt's name on't,
    All brass, in the front,
And Robinson's, scrawled with a goose-quill under.


[1] In 1824, when the Sinking Fund was raised by the imposition of new
taxes to the sum of five millions.






ODE TO THE GODDESS CERES.

BY SIR THOMAS LETHBRIDGE.


    "legiferoe Cereri Phoeboque."--VERGIL.


Dear Goddess of Corn whom the ancients, we know,
  (Among other odd whims of those comical bodies,)
Adorned with somniferous poppies to show
  Thou wert always a true Country-gentleman's Goddess.

Behold in his best shooting-jacket before thee
  An eloquent 'Squire, who most humbly beseeches.
Great Queen of Mark-lane (if the thing doesn't bore thee),
  Thou'lt read o'er the last of his--_never_-last speeches.

Ah! Ceres, thou knowest not the slander and scorn
  Now heapt upon England's 'Squirearchy, so boasted;
Improving on Hunt,[1] 'tis no longer the Corn,
  'Tis the _growers_ of Corn that are now, alas! roasted.

In speeches, in books, in all shapes they attack us--
  Reviewers, economists--fellows no doubt
That you, my dear Ceres and Venus and Bacchus
  And Gods of high fashion, know little about.

There's Bentham, whose English is all his own making,--
  Who thinks just as little of settling a nation
As he would of smoking his pipe or of taking
  (What he himself calls) his "postprandial vibration."[2]

There are two Mr. Mills to whom those that love reading
  Thro' all that's unreadable call very clever;--
And whereas Mill Senior makes war on _good_ breeding,
  Mill Junior makes war on all _breeding_ whatever!

In short, my dear Goddess, old England's divided
  Between _ultra_ blockheads and superfine sages;--
With _which_ of these classes we landlords have sided
  Thou'lt find in my Speech if thou'lt read a few pages.

For therein I've proved to my own satisfaction
  And that of all 'Squires I've the honor of meeting
That 'tis the most senseless and foul-mouthed detraction
  To say that poor people are fond of cheap eating.

On the contrary, such the "_chaste_ notions"[3] of food
  That dwell in each pale manufacturer's heart,
They would scorn any law, be it ever so good,
  That would make thee, dear Goddess, less dear than thou art!

And, oh! for Monopoly what a blest day,
  Whom the Land and the Silk[4] shall in fond combination
(Like _Sulky_ and _Silky_, that pair in the play,)[5]
  Cry out with one voice for High Rents and Starvation!

Long life to the Minister!--no matter who,
  Or how dull he may be, if with dignified spirit he
Keeps the ports shut--and the people's mouths too--
  We shall all have a long run of Freddy's prosperity,

And, as for myself, who've, like Hannibal, sworn
  To hate the whole crew who would take our rents from us,
Had England but _One_ to stand by thee, Dear Corn,
  That last, honest Uni-Corn[6] would be Sir Thomas!


[1] A sort of "breakfast-power," composed of roasted corn, was
about this time introduced by Mr. Hunt, as a substitute for coffee.

[2] The venerable Jeremy's phrase for his after-dinner walk.

[3] A phrase in one of Sir Thomas's last speeches.

[4] Great efforts were, at that time, making for the exclusion of
foreign silk.

[5] "Road to Ruin."

[6] This is meant not so much for a pun, as in allusion to the natural
history of the Unicorn, which is supposed to be, something between the
_Bos_ and the _Asinus_, and, as Rees's Cyclopaedia assures us,
has a particular liking for everything "chaste."






A HYMN OF WELCOME AFTER THE RECESS.


    _"animas sapientiores fieri quiescendo."_


And now-cross-buns and pancakes o'er--
Hail, Lords and Gentlemen, once more!
  Thrice hail and welcome, Houses Twain!
The short eclipse of April-Day
Having (God grant it!) past away,
  Collective Wisdom, shine again!

Come, Ayes and Noes, thro' thick and thin,--
With Paddy Holmes for whipper-in,--
  Whate'er the job, prepared to back it;
Come, voters of Supplies--bestowers
Of jackets upon trumpet-blowers,
  At eighty mortal pounds the jacket![1]

Come--free, at length, from Joint-Stock cares--
Ye Senators of many Shares,
  Whose dreams of premium knew no boundary;
So fond of aught like _Company_,
That you would even have taken _tea_
  (Had you been askt) with Mr. Goundry.[2]

Come, matchless country-gentlemen;
Come, wise Sir Thomas--wisest then
  When creeds and corn-lords are debated;
Come, rival even the Harlot Red,
And show how wholly into _bread_
  A 'Squire is _transubstantiated_,

Come, Lauderdale, and tell the world,
That--surely as thy scratch is curled
  As never scratch was curled before--
Cheap eating does more harm than good,
And working-people spoiled by food,
  The less they eat, will work the more.

Come, Goulburn, with thy glib defence
(Which thou'dst have made for Peter's Pence)
  Of Church-rates, worthy of a halter;
Two pipes of port (_old_ port, 'twas said
By honest _New_port)[3] bought and paid
  By Papists for the Orange Altar![4]

Come, Horton, with thy plan so merry
For peopling Canada from Kerry--
  Not so much rendering Ireland quiet,
As grafting on the dull Canadians
That liveliest of earth's contagions,
  The _bull_-pock of Hibernian riot!

Come all, in short, ye wondrous men
Of wit and wisdom, come again;
  Tho' short your absence, all deplore it--
Oh, come and show, whate'er men say,
That you can _after_ April-Day,
  Be just as--sapient as _before_ it.


[1] An item of expense which Mr. Hume in vain endeavored tog et rid of:--
trumpeters, it appears like the men of All-Souls, must be "_bene
vestiti_."

[2] The gentleman, lately before the public, who kept his _Joint_-Stock
Tea Company all to himself, singing "Te _solo adoro_."

[3] Sir John Newport.

[4] This charge of two pipes of port for the sacramental wine is a
precious specimen of the sort of rates levied upon their Catholic fellow-
parishioners by the Irish Protestants. "The thirst that from the soul doth
rise Doth ask a drink divine."






MEMORABILIA OF LAST WEEK.

MONDAY, MARCH 13, 1826.


The Budget--quite charming and witty--no hearing,
For plaudits and laughs, the good things that were in it;--
Great comfort to find, tho' the speech isn't _cheering_,
  That all its gay auditors _were_ every minute.

What, _still_ more prosperity!--mercy upon us,
  "This boy'll be the death of me"--oft as, already,
Such smooth Budgeteers have genteelly undone us,
  For _Ruin made easy_ there's no one like Freddy.

TUESDAY.

Much grave apprehension exprest by the Peers,
  Lest--calling to life the old Peachums and Lockitts--
The large stock of gold we're to have in three years,
  Should all find its way into highwaymen's pockets![1]

WEDNESDAY.

Little doing--for sacred, oh Wednesday, thou art
  To the seven-o'-clock joys of full many a table--
When _the Members_ all meet, to make much of that part,
  With which they so rashly fell out in the Fable.

It appeared, tho', to-night, that--as church-wardens yearly,
  Eat up a small baby--those cormorant sinners.
The Bankrupt Commissioners, _bolt_ very nearly
  A moderate-sized bankrupt, _tout chaud_, for their dinners![2]

_Nota bene_--a rumor to-day, in the city,
"Mr. Robinson just has resigned"--what a pity!

The Bulls and the Bears all fell a sobbing,
When they heard of the fate of poor Cock _Robin_:
While thus, to the nursery tune, so pretty,
A murmuring _Stock_-dove breathed her ditty:--

Alas, poor _Robin_, he crowed as long
  And as sweet as a prosperous Cock could crow;
But his _note_ was _small_ and the _gold_-finch's song
  Was a pitch too high for Robin to go.
        Who'll make his shroud?

"I," said the Bank, "tho' he played me a prank,
  "While I have a rag, poor _Rob_ shall be rolled in't,
"With many a pound I'll paper him round,
  "Like a plump rouleau--_without_ the gold in it."


[1] "Another objection to a metallic currency was, that it produced a
greater number of highway robberies."--_Debate in the Lords_.

[2] Mr. Abercromby's statement of the enormous tavern bills of the
Commissioners of Bankrupts.






ALL IN THE FAMILY WAY.

A NEW PASTORAL BALLAD.

(SUNG IN THE CHARACTER OF BRITANNIA.)


    "The Public Debt is due from ourselves to ourselves, and resolves
    itself into a Family Account."--_Sir Robert Peel's Letter_.


Tune--_My banks are all furnisht with bees_.


My banks are all furnisht with rags,
  So thick, even Freddy can't thin 'em;
I've torn up my old money-bags,
  Having little or nought to put in 'em.
My tradesmen are smashing by dozens,
  But this is all nothing, they say;
For bankrupts since Adam are cousins,--
  So, it's all in the family way.

My Debt not a penny takes from me.
  As sages the matter explain;--
Bob owes it to Tom, and then Tommy
  Just owes it to Bob back again.
Since all have thus taken to _owing_,
  There's nobody left that can _pay_;
And this is the way to keep going,--
  All quite in the family way.

My senators vote away millions,
  To put in Prosperity's budget;
And tho' it were billions or trillions,
  The generous rogues wouldn't grudge it.
'Tis all but a family _hop_,
  'Twas Pitt began dancing the hay;
Hands round!--why the deuce should we stop?
  'Tis all in the family way.

My laborers used to eat mutton,
  As any great man of the State does;
And now the poor devils are put on
  Small rations of tea and potatoes.
But cheer up, John, Sawney, and Paddy,
  The King is your father, they say;
So even if you starve for your Daddy,
  'Tis all in the family way.

My rich manufacturers tumble,
  My poor ones have nothing to chew;
And even if themselves do not grumble
  Their stomachs undoubtedly do.
But coolly to fast _en famille_,
  Is as good for the soul as to pray;
And famine itself is genteel,
  When one starves in a family way.

I have found out a secret for Freddy,
  A secret for next Budget day;
Tho' perhaps he may know it already,
  As he too's a sage in his way.
When next for the Treasury scene he
  Announces "the Devil to pay,"
Let him write on the bills, "_nota bene_,
  "'Tis all in the family way."






BALLAD FOR THE CAMBRIDGE ELECTION.


    "I authorized my Committee to take the step which they did, of
    proposing a fair comparison of strength, upon the understanding that
    _whichever of the two should prove to be the weakest_, should
    give way to the other."
    --_Extract from Mr. W. J. Bankes's Letter to Mr. Goulbourn_.


Bankes is weak, and Goulbourn too,
  No one e'er the fact denied;--
Which is "weakest" of the two,
  Cambridge can alone decide.
Choose between them, Cambridge, pray,
Which is weakest, Cambridge, say.

Goulbourn of the Pope afraid is,
  Bankes, as much afraid as he;
Never yet did two old ladies
  On this point so well agree.
Choose between them, Cambridge, pray,
Which is weakest. Cambridge, say.

Each a different mode pursues,
  Each the same conclusion reaches;
Bankes is foolish in Reviews,
  Goulbourn foolish in his speeches.
Choose between them, Cambridge, pray,
Which is weakest, Cambridge, say.

Each a different foe doth damn,
  When his own affairs have gone ill;
Bankes he damneth Buckingham,
  Goulbourn damneth Dan O'Connell.
Choose between them, Cambridge, pray,
Which is weakest, Cambridge, say.
Once we know a horse's neigh
  Fixt the election to a throne,
So whichever first shall _bray_
  Choose him, Cambridge, for thy own.
Choose him, choose him by his bray,
Thus elect him, Cambridge, pray.

_June_, 1826.






MR. ROGER DODSWORTH.

1826.


TO THE EDITOR OF THE TIMES.

Sir--Having just heard of the wonderful resurrection of Mr. Roger
Dodsworth from under an _avalanche_, where he had remained, _bien
frappe_, it seems, for the last 166 years, I hasten to impart to you a
few reflections on the subject.--Yours, etc.

    _Laudator Temporis Acti_.


What a lucky turn-up!--just as Eldon's withdrawing,
  To find thus a gentleman, frozen in the year
Sixteen hundred and sixty, who only wants thawing
  To serve for _our_ times quite as well as the Peer;--

To bring thus to light, not the Wisdom alone
  Of our Ancestors, such as 'tis found on our shelves,
But in perfect condition, full-wigged and full-grown,
  To shovel up one of those wise bucks themselves!

Oh thaw Mr. Dodsworth and send him safe home--
  Let him learn nothing useful or new on the way;
With his wisdom kept snug from the light let him come,
  And our Tories will hail him with "Hear!" and "Hurrah!"

What a God-send to _them_!--a good, obsolete man,
  Who has never of Locke or Voltaire been a reader;--
Oh thaw Mr. Dodsworth as fast as you can,
  And the Lonsdales and Hertfords shall choose him for leader.

Yes, Sleeper of Ages, thou _shalt_ be their chosen;
  And deeply with thee will they sorrow, good men,
To think that all Europe has, since thou wert frozen,
  So altered thou hardly wilt know it again.

And Eldon will weep o'er each sad innovation
  Such oceans of tears, thou wilt fancy that he
Has been also laid up in a long congelation,
  And is only now thawing, dear Roger, like thee.






COPY OF AN INTERCEPTED DESPATCH.

FROM HIS EXCELLENCY DON STREPITOSO DIABOLO, ENVOY EXTRAORDINARY TO HIS
SATANIC MAJESTY.

St. James's Street, July 1, 1826.


Great Sir, having just had the good luck to catch
  An official young demon, preparing to go,
Ready booted and spurred, with a black-leg despatch
  From the Hell here at Crockford's, to _our_ Hell below--

I write these few lines to your Highness Satanic,
  To say that first having obeyed your directions
And done all the mischief I could in "the Panic,"
  My next special care was to help the Elections.

Well knowing how dear were those times to thy soul,
  When every good Christian tormented his brother,
And caused, in thy realm, such a saving of coal,
  From all coming down, ready grilled by each other;

Remembering besides how it pained thee to part
  With the old Penal Code--that _chef-d'oeuvre_ of Law,
In which (tho' to own it too modest thou art)
  We could plainly perceive the fine touch of thy claw;

I thought, as we ne'er can those good times revive,
  (Tho' Eldon, with help from your Highness would try,)
'Twould still keep a taste for Hell's music alive,
  Could we get up a thundering No-Popery cry;--

That yell which when chorused by laics and clerics,
  So like is to _ours_, in its spirit and tone.
That I often nigh laugh myself into hysterics,
  To think that Religion should make it her own.

So, having sent down for the original notes
  Of the chorus as sung by your Majesty's choir
With a few pints of lava to gargle the throats
  Of myself and some others who sing it "with fire,"[1]

Thought I, "if the Marseillais Hymn could command
  "Such audience, tho' yelled by a _Sans-culotte_ crew
"What wonders shall _we_ do, who've men in our band,
  "That not only wear breeches but petticoats too."

Such _then_ were my hopes, but with sorrow, your Highness,
  I'm forced to confess--be the cause what it will,
Whether fewness of voices or hoarseness or shyness,--
  Our Beelzebub Chorus has gone off but ill.

The truth is no placeman now knows his right key,
  The Treasury pitch-pipe of late is so various;
And certain _base_ voices, that lookt for a fee
  At the _York_ music-meeting now think it precarious.

Even some of our Reverends _might_ have been warmer,--
  Tho' one or two capital roarers we've had;
Doctor Wise[2]is for instance a charming performer,
  And _Huntingdon_ Maberley's yell was not bad!

Altogether however the thing was not hearty;--
  Even Eldon allows we got on but so so;
And when next we attempt a No-Popery party,
  We _must_, please your Highness, recruit _from below_.

But hark! the young Black-leg is cracking his whip--
  Excuse me, Great Sir-there's no time to be civil;--
The next opportunity shan't be let slip,
  But, till then,
    I'm, in haste, your most dutiful
      DEVIL.

  _July, 1826_


[1] _Con fuoco_--a music-book direction.

[2] This reverend gentleman distinguished himself at the Reading election.






THE MILLENNIUM.

SUGGESTED BY THE LATE WORK OF THE REVEREND MR. IRVING "ON PROPHECY."

1826


A millennium at hand!--I'm delighted to hear it--
  As matters both public and private now go,
With multitudes round us all starving or near it.
  A good, rich Millennium will come _a-propos_.

Only think, Master Fred, what delight to behold,
  Instead of thy bankrupt old City of Rags,
A bran-new Jerusalem built all of gold,
  Sound bullion throughout from the roof to the flags--

A City where wine and cheap corn[1] shall abound--
  A celestial _Cocaigne_ on whose buttery shelves
We may swear the best things of this world will be found,
  As your Saints seldom fail to take care of themselves!

Thanks, reverend expounder of raptures Elysian,
  Divine Squintifobus who, placed within reach
Of two opposite worlds, by a twist of your vision
  Can cast at the same time a sly look at each;--

Thanks, thanks for the hope thou affordest, that we
  May even in our own times a Jubilee share.
Which so long has been promist by prophets like thee,
  And so often postponed, we began to despair.

There was Whiston[2] who learnedly took Prince Eugene
  For the man who must bring the Millennium about;
There's Faber whose pious productions have been
  All belied ere his book's first edition was out;--

There was Counsellor Dobbs, too, an Irish M. P.,
  Who discoursed on the subject with signal _eclat_,
And, each day of his life sat expecting to see
  A Millennium break out in the town of Armagh![3]

There was also--but why should I burden my lay
  With your Brotherses, Southcotes, and names less deserving,
When all past Millenniums henceforth must give way
  To the last new Millennium of Orator Irving.

Go on, mighty man,--doom them all to the shelf,--
  And when next thou with Prophecy troublest thy sconce,
Oh forget not, I pray thee, to prove that thyself
  Art the Beast (Chapter iv.) that sees nine ways at once.


[1] "A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley
for a penny."--Rev. vi.

[2] When Whiston presented to Prince Eugene the Essay in which he
attempted to connect his victories over the Turks with Revelation, the
Prince is said to have replied, that "he was not aware he had ever had
ever had honor of being known to St. John".

[3] Mr. Dobbs was a member of the Irish Parliament, and, on all other
subjects but the Millennium, a very sensible person: he chose Armagh as
the scene of his Millennium on account of the name Armageddon mentioned in
Revelation.






THE THREE DOCTORS.


    _doctoribus loetamur tribus_.


1826.


Tho' many great Doctors there be,
  There are three that all Doctors out-top,
Doctor Eady, that famous M. D.,
  Doctor Southey, and dear Doctor Slop.[1]

The purger, the proser, the bard--
  All quacks in a different style;
Doctor Southey writes books by the yard.
  Doctor Eady writes puffs by the mile![2]

Doctor Slop, in no merit outdone
  By his scribbling or physicking brother,
Can dose us with stuff like the one.
  Ay, and _doze_ us with stuff like the other.

Doctor Eady good company keeps
  With "No Popery" scribes, on the walls;
Doctor Southey as gloriously sleeps
  With "No Popery" scribes on the stalls.

Doctor Slop, upon subjects divine,
  Such bedlamite slaver lets drop,
Taat if Eady should take the _mad_ line,
  He'll be sure of a patient in Slop.

Seven millions of Papists, no less,
  Doctor Southey attacks, like a Turk;
Doctor Eady, less bold, I confess,
  Attacks but his maid-of-all-work

Doctor Southey, for _his_ grand attack,
  Both a laureate and pensioner is;
While poor Doctor Eady, alack,
  Has been _had up_ to Bow-street for his!

And truly, the law does so blunder,
  That tho' little blood has been spilt, he
May probably suffer as, under
  The _Chalking_ Act, _known_ to be guilty.

So much for the merits sublime
  (With whose catalogue ne'er should I stop)
Of the three greatest lights of our time,
  Doctor Eady and Southey and Slop!

Should you ask me, to _which_ of the three
  Great Doctors the preference should fall,
As a matter of course I agree
  Doctor Eady must go to _the wall_.

But as Southey with laurels is crowned,
  And Slop with a wig and a tail is,
Let Eady's bright temples be bound
  With a swingeing "Corona _Muralis_!"[3]


[1] The editor of the Morning Herald, so nicknamed.

[2] Alluding to the display of this doctor's name, in chalk, on all the
walls round the metropolis.

[3] A crown granted as a reward among the Romans to persons who performed
any extraordinary exploits upon wall, such as scaling them, battering
them, etc.--No doubt, writing upon them, to the extent Dr. Eady does,
would equally establish a claim to the honor.






EPITAPH ON A TUFT-HUNTER.


Lament, lament, Sir Isaac Heard,
  Put mourning round thy page, Debrett,
For here lies one who ne'er preferred
  A Viscount to a Marquis yet.

Beside him place the God of Wit,
  Before him Beauty's rosiest girls,
Apollo for a _star_ he'd quit,
  And Love's own sister for an Earl's.

Did niggard fate no peers afford,
  He took of course to peers' relations;
And rather than not sport a Lord
  Put up with even the last creations;

Even Irish names could he but tag 'em
  With "Lord" and "Duke," were sweet to call;
And at a pinch Lord Ballyraggum
  Was better than no Lord at all.

Heaven grant him now some noble nook,
  For rest his soul! he'd rather be
Genteelly damned beside a Duke,
  Than saved in vulgar company.






ODE TO A HAT.


    --_altum aedificat caput_."
    JUVENAL

1826.


Hail, reverent Hat!--sublime mid all
  The minor felts that round thee grovel;--
Thou that the Gods "a Delta" call
  While meaner mortals call the "shovel."
When on thy shape (like pyramid,
  Cut horizontally in two)[1]
I raptured gaze, what dreams unbid
  Of stalls and mitres bless my view!

That brim of brims so sleekly good--
  Not flapt, like dull Wesleyans', down,
But looking (as all churchmen's should)
  Devoutly upward--towards the _crown_.

Gods! when I gaze upon that brim,
  So redolent of Church all over,
What swarms of Tithes in vision dim,--
Some-pig-tailed, some like cherubim,
  With ducklings' wings--around it hover!
Tenths of all dead and living things,
That Nature into being brings,
From calves and corn to chitterlings.

Say, holy Hat, that hast, of cocks,
The very cock most orthodox.
To _which_ of all the well-fed throng
Of Zion,[2] joy'st thou to belong?
Thou'rt _not_ Sir Harcourt Lees's--no-
  For hats grow like the heads that wear 'em:
And hats, on heads like his, would grow
  Particularly _harum-scarum_.

Who knows but thou mayst deck the pate
Of that famed Doctor Ad-mth-te,
(The reverend rat, whom we saw stand
On his hind-legs in Westmoreland,)
Who changed so quick from _blue_ to _yellow_,
  And would from _yellow_ back to _blue_,
And back again, convenient fellow,
  If 'twere his interest so to do.

Or haply smartest of triangles,
  Thou art the hat of Doctor Owen;
The hat that, to his vestry wrangles,
  That venerable priest doth go in,--
And then and there amid the stare
Of all St. Olave's, takes the chair
And quotes with phiz right orthodox
  The example of his reverend brothers,
To prove that priests all fleece their flocks
  And _he_ must fleece as well as others.

Blest Hat! (whoe'er thy lord may be)
Thus low I take off mine to thee,
The homage of a layman's _castor_,
To the spruce _delta_ of his pastor.
Oh mayst thou be, as thou proceedest,
  Still smarter cockt, still brusht the brighter,
Till, bowing all the way, thou leadest
  Thy sleek possessor to a mitre!


[1] So described by a Reverend Historian of the Church:--"A Delta hat like
the horizontal section of a pyramid."--GRANT'S "History of the English
Church."

[2] Archbishop Magee affectionately calls the Church Establishment of
Ireland "the little Zion."






NEWS FOR COUNTRY COUSINS.


Dear Coz, as I know neither you nor Miss Draper,
When Parliament's up, ever take in a paper,
But trust for your news to such stray odds and ends
As you chance to pick up from political friends-
Being one of this well-informed class, I sit down
To transmit you the last newest news that's in town.

As to Greece and Lord Cochrane, things couldn't look better--
His Lordship (who promises now to fight faster)
Has just taken Rhodes and despatched off a letter
To Daniel O'Connell, to make him Grand Master;
Engaging to change the old name, if he can,
From the Knights of St. John to the Knights of St. Dan;--
Or if Dan should prefer (as a still better whim)
Being made the Colossus, 'tis all one to him.

From Russia the last accounts are that the Tsar--
Most generous and kind as all sovereigns are,
And whose first princely act (as you know, I suppose)
Was to give away all his late brother's old clothes[1]--
Is now busy collecting with brotherly care
The late Emperor's nightcaps, and thinks, of bestowing
One nightcap apiece (if he has them to spare)
On all the distinguisht old ladies now going.
(While I write, an arrival from Riga--the "Brothers"--
Having nightcaps on board for Lord Eldon and others.)

Last advices from India--Sir Archy, 'tis thought,
Was near catching a Tartar (the first ever caught
In N. Lat. 2l.)--and his Highness Burmese,
Being very hard prest to shell out the rupees,
And not having rhino sufficient, they say, meant
To pawn his august Golden Foot[2] for the payment.

(How lucky for monarchs, that thus when they choose
Can establish a _running_ account with the Jews!)
The security being what Rothschild calls "goot,"
A loan will be shortly, of course, set _on foot_;
The parties are Rothschild, A. Baring and Co.
With three other great pawnbrokers: each takes a toe,
And engages (lest Gold-foot should give us _leg_-bail,
As he did once before) to pay down _on the nail_.

       *       *       *       *       *

This is all for the present--what vile pens and paper!
Yours truly, dear Cousin--best love to Miss Draper.

_September_, 1826.


[1] A distribution was made of the Emperor Alexander's military wardrobe
by his successor.

[2] This potentate styles himself the Monarch of the Golden foot.






A VISION.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "CHRISTABEL."


"Up!" said the Spirit and ere I could pray
One hasty orison, whirled me away
To a Limbo, lying--I wist not where--
Above or below, in earth or air;
For it glimmered o'er with a _doubtful_ light,
One couldn't say whether 'twas day or night;
And 'twas crost by many a mazy track,
One didn't know how to get on or back;
And I felt like a needle that's going astray
(With its _one_ eye out) thro' a bundle of hay;
When the Spirit he grinned, and whispered me,
"Thou'rt now in the Court of Chancery!"

Around me flitted unnumbered swarms
Of shapeless, bodiless, tailless forms;
(Like bottled-up babes that grace the room
Of that worthy knight, Sir Everard Home)--
All of them, things half-killed in rearing;
Some were lame--some wanted _hearing_;
Some had thro' half a century run,
Tho' they hadn't a leg to stand upon.
Others, more merry, as just beginning,
Around on a _point of law_ were spinning;
Or balanced aloft, 'twixt _Bill_ and _Answer_,
Lead at each end, like a tight-rope dancer.
Some were so _cross_ that nothing could please 'em;-
Some gulpt down _affidavits_ to ease 'em--
All were in motion, yet never a one,
Let it _move_ as it might, could ever move _on_,
"These," said the Spirit, "you plainly see,
"Are what they call suits in Chancery!"

I heard a loud screaming of old and young,
Like a chorus by fifty Vellutis sung;
Or an Irish Dump ("the words by Moore ")
At an amateur concert screamed in score;--
So harsh on my ear that wailing fell
Of the wretches who in this Limbo dwell!
It seemed like the dismal symphony
Of the shapes' Aeneas in hell did see;
Or those frogs whose legs a barbarous cook
Cut off and left the frogs in the brook,
To cry all night, till life's last dregs,
"Give us our legs!--give us our legs!"
Touched with the sad and sorrowful scene,
I askt what all this yell might mean,
When the Spirit replied, with a grin of glee,
"'Tis the cry of the Suitors in Chancery!"

I lookt and I saw a wizard rise,[1]
With a wig like a cloud before men's eyes.
In his aged hand he held a wand,
Wherewith he beckoned his embryo band,
And they moved and moved as he waved it o'er,
But they never get on one inch the more.
And still they kept limping to and fro,
Like Ariels round old Prospero--
Saying, "Dear Master, let us go,"
But still old Prospero answered "No."
And I heard the while that wizard elf
Muttering, muttering spells to himself,
While o'er as many old papers he turned,
As Hume e'er moved for or Omar burned.
He talkt of his virtue--"tho' some, less nice,
(He owned with a sigh) preferred his _Vice_"--
And he said, "I think"--"I doubt"--"I hope,"
Called God to witness, and damned the Pope;
With many more sleights of tongue and hand
I couldn't for the soul of me understand.
Amazed and posed, I was just about
To ask his name, when the screams without,
The merciless clack of the imps within,
And that conjuror's mutterings, made such a din,
That, startled, I woke--leapt up in my bed--
Found the Spirit, the imps, and the conjuror fled,
And blest my stars, right pleased to see,
That I wasn't as yet in Chancery.


[1] The Lord Chancellor Eldon.






THE PETITION OF THE ORANGEMEN OF IRELAND.

1826.


To the people of England, the humble Petition
  Of Ireland's disconsolate Orangemen, showing--
That sad, very sad, is our present condition;--
  Our jobbing all gone and our noble selves going;--

That forming one seventh, within a few fractions,
  Of Ireland's seven millions of hot heads and hearts,
We hold it the basest of all base transactions
  To keep us from murdering the other six parts;--

That as to laws made for the good of the many,
  We humbly suggest there is nothing less true;
As all human laws (and our own, more than any)
  Are made _by_ and _for_ a particular few:--

That much it delights every true Orange brother
  To see you in England such ardor evince,
In discussing _which_ sect most tormented the other,
  And burned with most _gusto_ some hundred years since;--

That we love to behold, while old England grows faint,
  Messrs. Southey and Butler nigh coming to blows,
To decide whether Dunstan, that strong-bodied Saint,
  Ever truly and really pulled the De'il's nose;

Whether t'other Saint, Dominic, burnt the De'il's paw--
  Whether Edwy intrigued with Elgiva's odd mother--
And many such points, from which Southey can draw
  Conclusions most apt for our hating each other.

That 'tis very well known this devout Irish nation
  Has now for some ages, gone happily on
Believing in two kinds of Substantiation,
  One party in _Trans_ and the other in _Con_;[1]

That we, your petitioning _Cons_, have in right
  Of the said monosyllable ravaged the lands
And embezzled the goods and annoyed, day and night,
  Both the bodies and souls of the sticklers for _Trans_;--

That we trust to Peel, Eldon, and other such sages,
  For keeping us still in the same state of mind;
Pretty much as the world used to be in those ages,
  When still smaller syllables maddened mankind;--

When the words _ex_ and _per_[2] served as well to annoy
  One's neighbors and friends with, as _con_ and _trans_ now;
And Christians, like Southey, who stickled for _oi_,
  Cut the throats of all Christians who stickled for _ou_.[3]

That relying on England whose kindness already
  So often has helpt us to play this game o'er,
We have got our red coats and our carabines ready,
  And wait but the word to show sport as before.

That as to the expense--the few millions or so,
  Which for all such diversions John Bull has to pay--
'Tis at least a great comfort to John Bull to know
  That to Orangemen's pockets 'twill all find its way.
For which your petitioners ever will pray,
        Etc., etc., etc., etc., etc.


[1] Consubstantiation--the true Reformed belief; at least, the belief of
Luther, and, as Mosheim asserts, of Melancthon also.

[2] When John of Ragusa went to Constantinople (at the time this dispute
between "_ex_" and "_per_" was going on), he found the Turks, we
are told, "laughing at the Christians for being divided by two such
insignificant particles."

[3] The Arian controversy.--Before that time, says Hooker, "in order to be
a sound believing Christian, men were not curious what syllables or
particles of speech they used."






COTTON AND CORN.

A DIALOGUE.


Said Cotton to Corn, t'other day,
  As they met and exchanged a salute--
(Squire Corn in his carriage so gay,
  Poor Cotton half famished on foot):

"Great Squire, if it isn't uncivil
  "To hint at starvation before you,
"Look down on a poor hungry devil,
  "And give him some bread, I implore you!"

Quoth Corn then in answer to Cotton,
  Perceiving he meant to make _free_--
"Low fellow, you've surely forgotten
  "The distance between you and me!

"To expect that we Peers of high birth
  "Should waste our illustrious acres,
"For no other purpose on earth
  "Than to fatten curst calico-makers!--

"That Bishops to bobbins should bend--
  "Should stoop from their Bench's sublimity,
"Great dealers in _lawn_, to befriend
  "Such contemptible dealers in dimity!

"No--vile Manufacture! ne'er harbor
  "A hope to be fed at our boards;--
"Base offspring of Arkwright the barber,
  "What claim canst _thou_ have upon Lords?

"No--thanks to the taxes and debt,
  "And the triumph of paper o'er guineas,
"Our race of Lord Jemmys, as yet,
  "May defy your whole rabble of _Jennys_!"

So saying--whip, crack, and away
  Went Corn in his chaise thro' the throng,
So headlong, I heard them all say,
  "Squire Corn will be _down_ before long."






THE CANONIZATION OF SAINT BUTTERWORTH.


    "A Christian of the best edition."--RABELAIS.


Canonize him!--yea, verily, we'll canonize him,
  Tho' Cant is his hobby and meddling his bliss,
Tho' sages may pity and wits may despise him,
  He'll ne'er make a bit the worse Saint for all this.

Descend, all ye Spirits, that ever yet spread
  The dominion of Humbug o'er land and o'er sea,
Descend on our Butterworth's biblical head,
  Thrice-Great, Bibliopolist, Saint, and M. P.

Come, shade of Joanna, come down from thy sphere.
  And bring little Shiloh--if 'tisn't too far--
Such a sight will to Butterworth's bosom be dear,
  _His_ conceptions and _thine_ being much on a par.

Nor blush, Saint Joanna, once more to behold
  A world thou hast honored by cheating so many;
Thou'lt find still among us one Personage old,
  Who also by tricks and the _Seals_[1] makes a penny.

Thou, too, of the Shakers, divine Mother Lee![2]
  Thy smiles to beatified Butterworth deign;
Two "lights of the Gentiles" are thou, Anne, and he,
  _One_ hallowing Fleet Street, and _t'other_ Toad Lane![3]

The heathen, we know, made their Gods out of wood,
  And Saints may be framed of as handy materials;--
Old women and Butterworths make just as good
As any the Pope ever _bookt_ as Ethereals.

Stand forth, Man of Bibles!--not Mahomet's pigeon,
  When perched on the Koran, he dropt there, they say,
Strong marks of his faith, ever shed o'er religion
  Such glory as Butterworth sheds every day.

Great Galen of souls, with what vigor he crams
  Down Erin's idolatrous throats, till they crack again,
Bolus on bolus, good man!--and then damns
  Both their stomachs and souls, if they dare cast them back again.

How well might his shop--as a type representing
  The creed of himself and his sanctified clan--
On its counter exhibit "the Art of Tormenting,"
  Bound neatly, and lettered "Whole Duty of Man!"

Canonize him!--by Judas, we _will_ canonize him;
  For Cant is his hobby and twaddling his bliss;
And tho' wise men may pity and wits may despise him,
  He'll make but the better _shop_-saint for all this.

Call quickly together the whole tribe of Canters,
  Convoke all the _serious_ Tag-rag of the nation;
Bring Shakers and Snufflers and Jumpers and Ranters
  To witness their Butterworth's Canonization!

Yea, humbly I've ventured his merits to paint,
  Yea, feebly have tried all his gifts to portray,
And they form a sum-total for making a Saint.
  That the Devil's own advocate could not gainsay.

Jump high, all ye Jumpers, ye Ranters all roar,
  While Butterworth's spirit, upraised from your eyes,
Like a kite made of foolscap, in glory shall soar,
  With a long tail of rubbish behind, to the skies!


[1] A great part of the income of Joanna Southcott arose from the Seals of
the Lord's protection which she sold to her followers.

[2] Mrs. Anne Lee, the "chosen vessel" of the Shakers, and "Mother of all
the children of regeneration."

[3] Toad Lane, in Manchester, where Mother Lee was born.  In her "Address
to Young Believers," she says, that "it is a matter of no importance with
them from whence the means of their deliverance come, whether from a
stable in Bethlehem, or from Toad Lane, Manchester."






AN INCANTATION.

SUNG BY THE BUBBLE SPIRIT.


Air.--_Come with me, and we will go
         Where the rocks of coral grow_.


Come with me and we will blow
Lots of bubbles as we go;
Bubbles bright as ever Hope
Drew from fancy--or from soap;
Bright as e'er the South Sea sent
From its frothy element!
Come with me and we will blow
Lots of bubbles as we go.
Mix the lather, Johnny Wilks,
Thou, who rhym'st so well to bilks;[1]
Mix the lather--who can be
Fitter for such tasks than thee,
Great M. P. for _Suds_bury!

Now the frothy charm is ripe,
Puffing Peter,[2] bring thy pipe,--
Thou whom ancient Coventry
Once so dearly loved that she
Knew not which to her was sweeter,
Peeping Tom or Puffing Peter;--
Puff the bubbles high in air,
Puff thy best to keep them there.

Bravo, bravo, Peter More!
Now the rainbow humbugs[3] soar.
Glittering all with golden hues
Such as haunt the dreams of Jews;--
Some reflecting mines that lie
Under Chili's glowing sky,
Some, those virgin pearls that sleep
Cloistered in the southern deep;
Others, as if lent a ray
From the streaming Milky Way,
Glistening o'er with curds and whey
From the cows of Alderney.

Now's the moment--who shall first
Catch the bubbles ere they burst?
Run, ye Squires, ye Viscounts, run,
Brogden, Teynham, Palmerston;--
John Wilks junior runs beside ye!
Take the good the knaves provide ye!
See, with upturned eyes and hands,
Where the _Share_man, Brogden, stands,
Gaping for the froth to fall
Down his gullet--_lye_ and all.
See!--

    But, hark, my time is out--
Now, like some great water-spout,
Scattered by the cannon's thunder,
Burst ye bubbles, all asunder!

[_Here the stage darkens--a discordant crash is heard from the orchestra
--the broken bubbles descend in a saponaceous but uncleanly mist over the
heads of the_ Dramatis Personae_, and the scene drops, leaving the
bubble-hunters--all in the suds_.]


[1] Strong indications of character may be sometimes traced in the rhymes
to names. Marvell thought so when he wrote "Sir Edward Button, The foolish
Knight who rhymes to mutton."

[2] The member, during a long period, for Coventry.

[3] An humble imitation of one of our modern poets, who, in a poem against
War, after describing the splendid habiliments of the soldier, thus
apostrophizes him--"thou rainbow ruffian!"






A DREAM OF TURTLE.

BY SIR W. CURTIS.

1826.


'Twas evening time, in the twilight sweet
I sailed along, when--whom should I meet
But a Turtle journeying o'er the sea,
"On the service of his Majesty."[1]
When spying him first thro' twilight dim,
I didn't know what to make of him;
But said to myself, as slow he plied
His fins and rolled from side to side
Conceitedly o'er the watery path--
"'Tis my Lord of Stowell taking a bath,
"And I hear him now, among the fishes,
"Quoting Vatel and Burgersdicius!"
But, no--'twas, indeed, a Turtle wide
And plump as ever these eyes descried;
A turtle juicy as ever yet
Glued up the lips of a Baronet!
And much did it grieve my soul to see
That an animal of such dignity,
Like an absentee abroad should roam,
When he _ought_ to stay and be ate at home.

But now "a change came o'er my dream,"
  Like the magic lantern's shifting slider;
I lookt and saw by the evening beam
  On the back of that Turtle sat a rider--
A goodly man with an eye so merry,
I knew 'twas our Foreign Secretary,[2]
Who there at his ease did sit and smile,
Like Waterton on his crocodile;[3]
Cracking such jokes, at every motion,
  As made the Turtle squeak with glee
And own they gave him a lively notion
  Of what his _forced_-meat balls would be.
So, on the Sec. in his glory went.
Over that briny element,
Waving his hand as he took farewell
With graceful air, and bidding me tell
Inquiring friends that the Turtle and he
Were gone on a foreign embassy--
To soften the heart of a _Diplomat_,
Who is known to dote upon verdant fat,
And to let admiring Europe see,
That _calipash_ and _calipee_
Are the English forms of Diplomacy.


[1] We are told that the passport of this grand diplomatic Turtle (sent by
the Secretary for Foreign Affairs to a certain noble envoy) described him
as "on his majesty's service."

[2] Mr. Canning.

[3] _Wanderings in South America_. "It was the first and last time [says
Mr. Waterton] I was ever on a crocodile's back."






THE DONKEY AND HIS PANNIERS.

A FABLE.


    --_"fessus jam sudat asellus,
    "parce illi; vestrum delicium est asinus."_
    VERGIL. _Copa_.


A donkey whose talent for burdens was wondrous,
  So much that you'd swear he rejoiced in a load,
One day had to jog under panniers so ponderous,
  That--down the poor Donkey fell smack on the road!

His owners and drivers stood round in amaze
  What! Neddy, the patient, the prosperous Neddy,
So easy to drive thro' the dirtiest ways
  For every description of job-work so ready!

One driver (whom Ned might have "hailed" as a "brother")[1]
  Had just been proclaiming his Donkey's renown
For vigor, for spirit, for one thing or other--
  When, lo! mid his praises the Donkey came down!
But how to upraise him?--_one_ shouts, _t'other_ whistles,
  While Jenky, the Conjuror, wisest of all,
Declared that an "over-production of thistles[2]--
  (Here Ned gave a stare)--was the cause of his fall."

Another wise Solomon cries as he passes--
  "There, let him alone and the fit will soon cease;
"The beast has been fighting with other jack-asses,
  "And this is his mode of '_transition to peace_.'"

Some lookt at his hoofs, and with learned grimaces
  Pronounced that too long without shoes he had gone--
"Let the blacksmith provide him a _sound metal basis_,"
  (The wise-acres said), "and he's sure to jog on."

Meanwhile, the poor Neddy in torture and fear
  Lay under his panniers, scarce able to groan;
And--what was still dolefuller--lending an ear
  To advisers whose ears were a match for his own.

At length a plain rustic whose wit went so far
  As to see others' folly, roared out, as he past--
"Quick--off with the panniers, all dolts as ye are,
  "Or your prosperous Neddy will soon kick his last!"

October, 1826.


[1] Alluding to an early poem of Mr. Coleridge's, addressed to an Ass, and
beginning, "I hail thee, brother!"

[2] A certain country gentleman having said in the House, "that we must
return at last to the food of our ancestors," somebody asked Mr. T. "what
food the gentleman meant?"--"Thistles, I suppose," answered Mr. T.






ODE TO THE SUBLIME PORTE.

1826.


Great Sultan, how wise are thy state compositions!
  And oh! above all I admire that Decree,
In which thou command'st that all _she_ politicians
  Shall forthwith be strangled and cast in the sea.

'Tis my fortune to know a lean Benthamite spinster--
  A maid who her faith in old Jeremy puts,
Who talks with a lisp of "the last new West_minster_,"
  And hopes you're delighted with "Mill upon Gluts;"

Who tells you how clever one Mr. Funblank is,
  How charming his Articles 'gainst the Nobility;--
And assures you that even a gentleman's rank is
  In Jeremy's school, of no sort of _utility_.

To see her, ye Gods, a new Number perusing--
  ART. 1.--"On the _Needle's_ variations," by Pl--ce;[1]
  ART. 2.--By her Favorite Funblank[2]--"so amusing!
  "Dear man! he makes Poetry quite a _Law_ case."

ART. 3.--"Upon Fallacies," Jeremy's own--
  (Chief Fallacy being his hope to find readers);-
ART. 4.--"Upon Honesty," author unknown;--
  ART. 5.--(by the young Mr. Mill) "Hints to Breeders."

Oh, Sultan, oh, Sultan, tho' oft for the bag
  And the bowstring, like thee, I am tempted to call--
Tho' drowning's too good for each blue-stocking hag,
  I would bag this _she_ Benthamite first of them all!

And lest she should ever again lift her head
  From the watery bottom, her clack to renew--
As a clog, as a sinker, far better than lead,
  I would hang around her neck her own darling Review.


[1] A celebrated political tailor.

[2] This pains-taking gentleman has been at the trouble of counting, with
the assistance of Cocker, the number of metaphors in Moore's "_Life of
Sheridan_," and has found them to amount, as nearly as possible, to 2235--
and some _fractions_.






CORN AND CATHOLICS.


    _utrum horum
    dirius_ borun? _Incerti Auctoris_.


What! _still_ those two infernal questions,
  That with our meals our slumbers mix--
That spoil our tempers and digestions--
  Eternal Corn and Catholics!

Gods! were there ever two such bores?
  Nothing else talkt of night or morn--
Nothing _in_ doors or _out_ of doors,
  But endless Catholics and Corn!

Never was such a brace of pests--
  While Ministers, still worse than either,
Skilled but in feathering their nests,
  Plague us with both and settle neither.

So addled in my cranium meet
  Popery and Corn that oft I doubt,
Whether, this year, 'twas bonded Wheat,
  Or bonded Papists, they let out.

_Here_, landlords, _here_ polemics nail you,
  Armed with all rubbish they can rake up;
_Prices_ and _Texts_ at once assail you--
  From Daniel _these_, and _those_ from Jacob,

And when you sleep, with head still torn
  Between the two, their shapes you mix,
Till sometimes Catholics seem Corn--
  Then Corn again seems Catholics.

Now Dantsic wheat before you floats--
  Now Jesuits from California--
Now Ceres linkt with Titus _Oats_,
  Comes dancing thro' the "Porta _Corn_ea."[1]

Oft too the Corn grows animate,
  And a whole crop of heads appears,
Like Papists, _bearding_ Church and State--
  Themselves, together _by the ears_!

In short these torments never cease,
  And oft I wish myself transferred off
To some far, lonely land of peace
  Where Corn or Papists ne'er were heard of.

Yes, waft me, Parry, to the Pole;
  For--if my fate is to be chosen
'Twixt bores and icebergs--on my soul,
  I'd rather, of the two, be frozen!


[1] The Horn Gate, through which the ancients supposed all true
dreams (such as those of the Popish Plot, etc.) to pass.






A CASE OF LIBEL.


    "The greater the truth, the worse the libel."


A certain Sprite, who dwells below,
  ('Twere a libel perhaps to mention where,)
Came up _incog_. some years ago
  To try for a change the London air.

So well he lookt and drest and talkt,
  And hid his tail and horns so handy,
You'd hardly have known him as he walkt
  From C----e, or any other Dandy.

(His horns, it seems, are made to unscrew;
  So he has but to take them out of the socket,
And--just as some fine husbands do--
  Conveniently clap them into his pocket.)

In short, he lookt extremely natty,
  And even contrived--to his own great wonder--
By dint of sundry scents from Gattie,
  To keep the sulphurous _hogo_ under.

And so my gentleman hoofed about,
  Unknown to all but a chosen few
At White's and Crockford's, where no doubt
  He had many _post-obits_ falling due.

Alike a gamester and a wit,
  At night he was seen with Crockford's crew,
At morn with learned dames would sit--
  So past his time 'twixt _black_ and _blue_.

Some wisht to make him an M. P.,
  But, finding Wilks was also one, he
Swore, in a rage, "he'd be damned, if he
  "Would ever sit in one house with Johnny."

At length as secrets travel fast,
  And devils, whether he or she,
Are sure to be found out at last,
  The affair got wind most rapidly.

The Press, the impartial Press, that snubs
  Alike a fiend's or an angel's capers--
Miss Paton's soon as Beelzebub's,
  Fired off a squib in the morning papers:

"We warn good men to keep aloof
  "From a grim old Dandy seen about
"With a fire-proof wig and a cloven hoof
  "Thro' a neat-cut Hoby smoking out."

Now,--the Devil being gentleman,
  Who piques himself on well-bred dealings,--
You may guess, when o'er these lines he ran,
  How much they hurt and shockt his feelings.

Away he posts to a Man of Law,
  And 'twould make you laugh could you have seen 'em,
As paw shook hand, and hand shook paw,
  And 'twas "hail, good fellow, well met," between 'em.

Straight an indictment was preferred--
  And much the Devil enjoyed the jest,
When, asking about the Bench, he heard
  That, of all the Judges, his own was _Best_.[1]

In vain Defendant proffered proof
  That Plaintiff's self was the Father of Evil--
Brought Hoby forth to swear to the hoof
  And Stultz to speak to the tail of the Devil.

The Jury (saints, all snug and rich,
  And readers of virtuous Sunday papers)
Found for the Plaintiff--on hearing which
  The Devil gave one of his loftiest capers.

For oh, 'twas nuts to the Father of Lies
  (As this wily fiend is named in the Bible)
To find it settled by laws so wise,
  That the greater the truth, the worse the libel!


[1] A celebrated Judge, so named.






LITERARY ADVERTISEMENT.


Wanted--Authors of all-work to job for the season,
  No matter which party, so faithful to neither;
Good hacks who, if posed for a rhyme or a reason.
  Can manage, like ******, to do without either.

If in jail, all the better for out-o'-door topics;
  Your jail is for travellers a charming retreat;
They can take a day's rule for a trip to the Tropics,
  And sail round the world at their ease in the Fleet.

For a dramatist too the most useful of schools--
  He can study high life in the King's Bench community;
Aristotle could scarce keep him more _within rules_,
  And of _place_ he at least must adhere to the _unity_.

Any lady or gentleman, come to an age
  To have good "Reminiscences" (three-score or higher)
Will meet with encouragement--so much, _per_ page,
  And the spelling and grammar both found by the buyer.

No matter with _what_ their remembrance is stockt,
  So they'll only remember the _quantum_ desired;--
Enough to fill handsomely Two Volumes, _oct_.,
  Price twenty-four shillings, is all that's required.

They may treat us, like Kelly, with old _jeu-d'esprits_,
  Like Dibdin, may tell of each farcical frolic;
Or kindly inform us, like Madame Genlis,[1]
  That gingerbread-cakes always give them the colic.

Wanted also a new stock of Pamphlets on Corn
  By "Farmers" and "Landholders"--(worthies whose lands
Enclosed all in bow-pots their attics adorn,
  Or whose share of the soil maybe seen on their hands).

No-Popery Sermons, in ever so dull a vein,
  Sure of a market;--should they too who pen 'em
Be renegade Papists, like Murtagh O'Sullivan,[2]
  Something _extra_ allowed for the additional venom.

Funds, Physics, Corn, Poetry, Boxing, Romance,
  All excellent subjects for turning a penny;--
To write upon _all_ is an author's sole chance
  For attaining, at last, the least knowledge of _any_.

Nine times out of ten, if his _title_ is good,
  The material _within_ of small consequence is;--
Let him only write fine, and, if not understood,
  Why--that's the concern of the reader, not his.

_Nota Bene_--an Essay, now printing, to show,
  That Horace (as clearly as words could express it)
Was for taxing the Fund-holders, ages ago,
  When he wrote thus--"Quodcunque _in Fund is, assess it."_


[1] This lady also favors us, in her Memoirs, with the address of those
apothecaries, who have, from time to time, given her pills that agreed
with her; always desiring that the pills should be ordered "_comme pour
elle_."

[2] A gentleman, who distinguished himself by his evidence before the
Irish Committees.






THE IRISH SLAVE.[1]

1827.


I heard as I lay, a wailing sound,
  "He is dead--he is dead," the rumor flew;
And I raised my chain and turned me round,
  And askt, thro' the dungeon-window, "Who?"

I saw my livid tormentors pass;
  Their grief 'twas bliss to hear and see!
For never came joy to them alas!
  That didn't bring deadly bane to me.

Eager I lookt thro' the mist of night,
  And askt, "What foe of my race hath died?
"Is it he--that Doubter of law and right,
  "Whom nothing but wrong could e'er decide--

"Who, long as he sees but wealth to win,
  "Hath never yet felt a qualm or doubt
"What suitors for justice he'd keep in,
  "Or what suitors for freedom he'd shut out--

"Who, a clog for ever on Truth's advance,
  "Hangs round her (like the Old Man of the Sea
"Round Sinbad's neck[2]), nor leaves a chance
  "Of shaking him off--is't he? is't he?"

Ghastly my grim tormentors smiled,
  And thrusting me back to my den of woe,
With a laughter even more fierce and wild
  Than their funeral howling, answered "No."

But the cry still pierced my prison-gate,
  And again I askt, "What scourge is gone?
"Is it he--that Chief, so coldly great,
  "Whom Fame unwillingly shines upon--

"Whose name is one of the ill-omened words
  "They link with hate on his native plains;
"And why?--they lent him hearts and swords,
  "And he in return gave scoffs and chains!

"Is it he? is it he?" I loud inquired,
  When, hark!--there sounded a Royal knell;
And I knew what spirit had just expired,
  And slave as I was my triumph fell.

He had pledged a hate unto me and mine,
  He had left to the future nor hope nor choice,
But sealed that hate with a Name Divine,
  And he now was dead and--I _couldn't_ rejoice!

He had fanned afresh the burning brands
  Of a bigotry waxing cold and dim;
He had armed anew my torturers' hands,
  And _them_ did I curse--but sighed for him.

For, _his_ was the error of head not heart;
  And--oh! how beyond the ambushed foe,
Who to enmity adds the traitor's part,
  And carries a smile with a curse below!

If ever a heart made bright amends
  For the fatal fault of an erring head--
Go, learn _his_ fame from the lips of friends,
  In the orphan's tear be his glory read.

A Prince without pride, a man without guile,
  To the last unchanging, warm, sincere,
For Worth he had ever a hand and smile,
  And for Misery ever his purse and tear.

Touched to the heart by that solemn toll,
  I calmly sunk in my chains again;
While, still as I said, "Heaven rest his soul!"
  My mates of the dungeon sighed "Amen!"

January, 1827.


[1] Written on the death of the Duke of York.

[2] "You fell, said they, into the hands of the Old Man of the Sea, and
are the first who ever escaped strangling by his malicious
tricks."--_Story of Sinbad_.






ODE TO FERDINAND.

1827.


Quit the sword, thou King of men,
Grasp the needle once again;
Making petticoats is far
Safer sport than making war;
Trimming is a better thing,
Than the _being_ trimmed, oh King!
Grasp the needle bright with which
Thou didst for the Virgin stitch
Garment, such as ne'er before
Monarch stitched or Virgin wore,
Not for her, oh semster nimble!
Do I now invoke thy thimble;
Not for her thy wanted aid is,
But for certain grave old ladies,
Who now sit in England's cabinet,
Waiting to be clothed in tabinet,
Or whatever choice _etoffe_ is
Fit for Dowagers in office.
First, thy care, oh King, devote
To Dame Eldon's petticoat.
Make it of that silk whose dye
Shifts for ever to the eye,
Just as if it hardly knew
Whether to be pink or blue.
Or--material fitter yet--
If thou couldst a remnant get
Of that stuff with which, of old,
Sage Penelope, we're told,
Still by doing and undoing,
Kept her _suitors_ always wooing--
That's the stuff which I pronounce, is
Fittest for Dame Eldon's flounces.

After this, we'll try thy hand,
Mantua-making Ferdinand,
For old Goody Westmoreland;
One who loves, like Mother Cole,
Church and State with all her soul;
And has past her life in frolics
Worthy of our Apostolics.
Choose, in dressing this old flirt,
Something that won't show the dirt,
As, from habit, every minute
Goody Westmoreland is in it.

This is all I now shall ask,
Hie thee, monarch, to thy task;
Finish Eldon's frills and borders,
Then return for further orders.
Oh what progress for our sake,
Kings in millinery make!
Ribands, garters, and such things,
Are supplied by _other_ Kings--
Ferdinand his rank denotes
By providing petticoats.






HAT _VERSUS_ WIG.

1827.


    "At the interment of the Duke of York, Lord Eldon, in order to guard
    against the effects of the damp, stood upon his hat during the whole
    of the ceremony."


     --_metus omnes et inexorabile fatum
    subjecit pedibus, strepitumque Acherontis
    avari_.


'Twixt Eldon's Hat and Eldon's Wig
  There lately rose an altercation,--
Each with its own importance big,
  Disputing _which_ most serves the nation.

Quoth Wig, with consequential air,
  "Pooh! pooh! you surely can't design,
"My worthy beaver, to compare
  "Your station in the state with mine.

"Who meets the learned legal crew?
  "Who fronts the lordly Senate's pride?
"The Wig, the Wig, my friend--while you
  "Hang dangling on some peg outside.

"Oh! 'tis the Wig, that rules, like Love,
  "Senate and Court, with like _eclat_--
"And wards below and lords above,
  "For Law is Wig and Wig is Law!

"Who tried the long, _Long_ WELLESLEY suit,
  "Which tried one's patience, in return?
"Not thou, oh Hat!--tho' _couldst_ thou do't,
  "Of other _brims_[1] than thine thou'dst learn.

"'Twas mine our master's toil to share;
  "When, like 'Truepenny,' in the play,[2]
"He, every minute, cried out 'Swear,'
  "And merrily to swear went they;--[3]

"When, loath poor WELLESLEY to condemn, he
  "With nice discrimination weighed,
"Whether 'twas only 'Hell and Jemmy,'
  Or 'Hell and Tommy' that he played.

"No, no, my worthy beaver, no--
  "Tho' cheapened at the cheapest hatter's,
"And smart enough as beavers go
  "Thou ne'er wert made for public matters."

Here Wig concluded his oration,
  Looking, as wigs do, wondrous wise;
While thus, full cockt for declamation,
  The veteran Hat enraged replies:--

"Ha! dost thou then so soon forget
  "What thou, what England owes to me?
"Ungrateful Wig!--when will a debt,
  "So deep, so vast, be owed thee?

"Think of that night, that fearful night,
  "When, thro' the steaming vault below,
"Our master dared, in gout's despite,
  "To venture his podagric toe!

"Who was it then, thou boaster, say
  "When thou hadst to thy box sneaked off,
"Beneath his feet protecting lay,
  "And saved him from a mortal cough?

"Think, if Catarrh had quenched that sun,
  "How blank this world had been to thee!
"Without that head to shine upon,
  "Oh Wig, where would thy glory be?

"You, too, ye Britons,--had this hope
  "Of Church and State been ravisht from ye,
"Oh think, how Canning and the Pope
  "Would then have played up 'Hell and Tommy'!

"At sea, there's but a plank, they say,
  "'Twixt seamen and annihilation;
"A Hat, that awful moment, lay
  "'Twixt England and Emancipation!

"Oh!!!--"

At this "Oh!!!" _The Times_ Reporter
  Was taken poorly, and retired;
Which made him cut Hat's rhetoric shorter,
  Than justice to the case required.

On his return, he found these shocks
  Of eloquence all ended quite;
And Wig lay snoring in his box,
  And Hat was--hung up for the night.


[1] "_Brim_--a naughty woman."--GROSE.

[2]"_Ghost_[beneath].--Swear!
"_Hamlet_.--Ha, ha! say'st thou so!
Art thou there, Truepenny? Come on."

[3] His Lordship's demand for fresh affidavits was incessant.






THE PERIWINKLES AND THE LOCUSTS.

A SALMAGUNDIAN HYMN.


    "To Panurge was assigned the Laird-ship of Salmagundi, which was
    yearly worth 6,789,106,789 ryals besides the revenue of the
    _Locusts_ and _Periwinkles_, amounting one year with another
    to the value of 2,485,768," etc.--RABELAIS.


"Hurra! hurra!" I heard them say,
And they cheered and shouted all the way,
As the Laird of Salmagundi went.
To open in state his Parliament.

The Salmagundians once were rich,
Or thought they were--no matter which--
For, every year, the Revenue
From their Periwinkles larger grew;
And their rulers, skilled in all the trick
And legerdemain of arithmetic,
Knew how to place 1, 2, 3, 4,
  5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 and 10,
Such various ways, behind, before,
That they made a unit seem a score,
  And proved themselves most wealthy men!
So, on they went, a prosperous crew,
  The people wise, the rulers clever--
And God help those, like me and you,
Who dared to doubt (as some now do)
That the Periwinkle Revenue
  Would thus go flourishing on for ever.

"Hurra! hurra!" I heard them say,
And they cheered and shouted all the way,
As the Great Panurge in glory went
To open his own dear Parliament.

But folks at length began to doubt
What all this conjuring was about;
For, every day, more deep in debt
They saw their wealthy rulers get:--
"Let's look (said they) the items thro'
"And see if what we're told be true
"Of our Periwinkle Revenue,"
But, lord! they found there wasn't a tittle
  Of truth in aught they heard before;
For they gained by Periwinkles little
  And lost by Locusts ten times more!
These Locusts are a lordly breed
Some Salmagundians love to feed.
Of all the beasts that ever were born,
Your Locust most delights in _corn_;
And tho' his body be but small,
To fatten him takes the devil and all!
"Oh fie! oh fie!" was now the cry,
As they saw the gaudy show go by,
As the Laird of Salmagundi went
To open his Locust Parliament!






NEW CREATION OF PEERS.

BATCH THE FIRST.


    "His 'prentice han'
    He tried on man,
    And then he made the lasses."


1827.


"And now," quoth the Minister, (eased of his panics,
  And ripe for each pastime the summer affords,)
"Having had our full swing at destroying mechanics,
  "By way of _set-off_, let us make a few Lords.

"'Tis pleasant--while nothing but mercantile fractures,
  "Some simple, some _compound_, is dinned in our ears--
"To think that, tho' robbed all coarse manufactures,
  "We still have our fine manufacture of Peers;--

"Those _Gotielin_ productions which Kings take a pride
  "In engrossing the whole fabrication and trade of;
"Choice tapestry things very grand on _one_ side,
  "But showing, on t'other, what rags they are made of.

The plan being fixt, raw material was sought,--
  No matter how middling, if Tory the creed be;
And first, to begin with, Squire W---, 'twas thought,
  For a Lord was as raw a material as need be.

Next came with his _penchant_ for painting and pelf
  The tasteful Sir Charles,[1] so renowned far and near
For purchasing pictures and selling himself--
  And _both_ (as the public well knows) very dear.

Beside him Sir John comes, with equal _eclat_, in;--
  Stand forth, chosen pair, while for titles we measure ye;
Both connoisseur baronets, both fond of _drawing_,
  Sir John, after nature, Sir Charles, on the Treasury.

But, bless us!--behold a new candidate come--
  In his hand he upholds a prescription, new written:
He poiseth a pill-box 'twixt finger and thumb,
  And he asketh a seat 'mong the Peers of Great Britain!

"Forbid it," cried Jenky, "ye Viscounts, ye Earls!
  "Oh Rank, how thy glories would fall disenchanted,
"If coronets glistend with pills stead of pearls,
  "And the strawberry-leaves were by rhubarb supplanted!

"No--ask it not, ask it not, dear Doctor Holford--
  "If naught but a Peerage can gladden thy life,
"And young Master Holford as yet is too small for't,
  "Sweet Doctor, we'll make a _she_ Peer of thy wife.

"Next to bearing a coronet on our _own_ brows
  "Is to bask in its light from the brows of another;
"And grandeur o'er thee shall reflect from thy spouse,
  "As o'er Vesey Fitzgerald 'twill shine thro' his mother."[2]

Thus ended the _First_ Batch--and Jenky, much tired
  (It being no joke to make Lords by the heap),
Took a large dram of ether--the same that inspired
  His speech 'gainst the Papists--and prosed off to sleep.


[1] Created Lord Farnborough.

[2] Among the persons mentioned as likely to be raised to the
Peerage are the mother of Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald, etc.






SPEECH ON THE UMBRELLA QUESTION.[1]

BY LORD ELDON.

1827.


    "_vos_ inumbrelles _video_."--_Ex Juvenil_.
    GEORGII CANNINGII.[2]


My Lords, I'm accused of a trick that God knows is
  The last into which at my age I could fall--
Of leading this grave House of Peers by their noses,
  Wherever I choose, princes, bishops and all.

My Lords, on the question before us at present,
  No doubt I shall hear, "'Tis that cursed old fellow,
"That bugbear of all that is liberal and pleasant,
  "Who won't let the Lords give the man his umbrella!"

God forbid that your Lordships should knuckle to me;
  I am ancient--but were I as old as King Priam,
Not much, I confess, to your credit 'twould be,
  To mind such a twaddling old Trojan as I am.

I own, of our Protestant laws I am jealous,
  And long as God spares me will always maintain,
That _once_ having taken men's rights, or umbrellas,
  We ne'er should consent to restore them again.

What security have you, ye Bishops and Peers,
  If thus you give back Mr. Bell's _parapluie_,
That he mayn't with its stick, come about all your ears,
  And then--_where_ would your Protestant periwigs be?

No! heaven be my judge, were I dying to-day,
  Ere I dropt in the grave, like a medlar that's mellow,
"For God's sake"--at that awful moment I'd say--
  "For God's sake, _don't_ give Mr. Bell his umbrella."

["This address," says a ministerial journal, "delivered with amazing
emphasis and earnestness, occasioned an extraordinary sensation in the
House. Nothing since the memorable address of the Duke of York has
produced so remarkable an impression."]


[1] A case which interested the public very much at this period. A
gentleman, of the name, of Bell, having left his umbrella behind him in
the House of Lords, the doorkeepers (standing, no doubt, on the privileges
of that noble body) refused to restore it to him; and the above speech,
which may be considered as a _pendant_ to that of the Learned Earl on
the Catholic Question, arose out of the transaction.

[2] From Mr. Canning's translation of Jekyl's--

    "I say, my good fellows,
    As you've no umbrellas."






A PASTORAL BALLAD.

BY JOHN BULL.


    _Dublin, March 12, 1827_.--Friday, after the arrival of the
    packet bringing the account of the defeat of the Catholic Question, in
    the House of Commons, orders were sent to the Pigeon-House to forward
    5,000,000 rounds of musket-ball cartridge to the different garrisons
    round the country.--_Freeman's Journal_.


I have found out a gift for my Erin,
  A gift that will surely content her:--
Sweet pledge of a love so endearing!
  Five millions of bullets I've sent her.

She askt me for Freedom and Right,
  But ill she her wants understood;--
Ball cartridges, morning and night,
  Is a dose that will do her more good.

There is hardly a day of our lives
  But we read, in some amiable trials,
How husbands make love to their wives
  Thro' the medium of hemp and of vials.

_One_ thinks, with his mistress or mate
  A good halter is sure to agree--
That love-knot which, early and late,
  I have tried, my dear Erin, on thee.

While _another_, whom Hymen has blest
  With a wife that is not over placid,
Consigns the dear charmer to rest,
  With a dose of the best Prussic acid.

Thus, Erin! my love do I show--
  Thus quiet thee, mate of my bed!
And, as poison and hemp are too slow,
  Do thy business with bullets instead.

Should thy faith in my medicine be shaken,
  Ask Roden, that mildest of saints;
He'll tell thee, lead, inwardly taken,
  Alone can remove thy complaints;--

That, blest as thou art in thy lot,
  Nothing's wanted to make it more pleasant
But being hanged, tortured and shot,
  Much oftener than thou art at present.

Even Wellington's self hath averred
  Thou art yet but half sabred and hung,
And I loved him the more when I heard
  Such tenderness fall from his tongue.

So take the five millions of pills,
  Dear partner, I herewith inclose;
'Tis the cure that all quacks for thy ill,
  From Cromwell to Eldon, propose.

And you, ye brave bullets that go,
  How I wish that, before you set out,
The _Devil_ of the Freischuetz could know
  The good work you are going about.

For he'd charm ye, in spite of your lead.
  Into such supernatural wit.
That you'd all of you know, as you sped,
  Where a bullet of sense _ought_ to hit.






A LATE SCENE AT SWANAGE.[1]


    _regnis_ EX _sul ademptis_.--Verg. 1827.


To Swanage--that neat little town in whose bay
  Fair Thetis shows off in her best silver slippers--
Lord Bags[2] took his annual trip t'other day,
  To taste the sea breezes and chat with the dippers.

There--learned as he is in conundrums and laws--
  Quoth he to his dame (whom he oft plays the wag on),
  "Why are chancery suitors like bathers?"--"Because
  Their _suits_ are _put off_, till they haven't a rag on."

Thus on he went chatting--but, lo! while he chats,
  With a face full of wonder around him he looks;
For he misses his parsons, his dear shovel hats,
  Who used to flock round him at Swanage like rooks.

"How is this, Lady Bags?--to this region aquatic
"Last year they came swarming to make me their bow,
"As thick as Burke's cloud o'er the vales of Carnatic,
"Deans, Rectors, D.D.'s--where the devil are they now?"

"My dearest Lord Bags!" saith his dame, "_can_ you doubt?
  "I am loath to remind you of things so unpleasant;
"But _don't_ you perceive, dear, the Church have found out
  "That you're one of the people called _Ex's_, at present?"

"Ah, true--you have hit it--I _am_, indeed, one
  "Of those ill-fated _Ex's_ (his Lordship replies),
"And with tears, I confess--God forgive me the pun!--
  "We X's have proved ourselves _not_ to be Y's."


[1] A small bathing-place on the coast of Dorsetshire, long a favorite
summer resort of the ex-nobleman in question and, _till this season_, much
frequented also by gentlemen of the church.

[2] The Lord Chancellor Eldon.






WO! WO![1]


Wo, wo unto him who would check or disturb it--
  That beautiful Light which is now on its way;
Which beaming, at first, o'er the bogs of Belturbet,
  Now brightens sweet Ballinafad with its ray!

Oh Farnham, Saint Farnham, how much do we owe thee!
  How formed to all tastes are thy various employs.
The old, as a catcher of Catholics, know thee;
  The young, as an amateur scourger of boys.

Wo, wo to the man who such doings would smother!--
  On, Luther of Bavan! On, Saint of Kilgroggy!
With whip in one hand and with Bible in t'other,
  Like Mungo's tormentor, both "preachee and floggee."

Come, Saints from all quarters, and marshal his way;
  Come, Lorton, who, scorning profane erudition,
Popt Shakespeare, they say, in the river one day,
  Tho' 'twas only old Bowdler's _Velluti_ edition.

Come, Roden, who doubtest--so mild are thy views--
  Whether Bibles or bullets are best for the nation;
Who leav'st to poor Paddy no medium to choose
  'Twixt good _old_ Rebellion and _new_ Reformation.

What more from her Saints can Hibernia require?
  St. Bridget of yore like a dutiful daughter
Supplied her, 'tis said, with perpetual fire,[2]
  And Saints keep her _now_ in eternal hot water.

Wo, wo to the man who would check their career,
  Or stop the Millennium that's sure to await us,
When blest with an orthodox crop every year,
  We shall learn to raise Protestants fast as potatoes.

In kidnapping Papists, our rulers, we know,
  Had been trying their talent for many a day;
Till Farnham, when all had been tried, came to show,
  Like the German flea-catcher, "anoder goot way."

And nothing's more simple than Farnham's receipt;--
  "Catch your Catholic, first--soak him well in _poteen_,
"Add _salary_ sauce,[3] and the thing is complete.
  "You may serve up your Protestant smoking and clean."

"Wo, wo to the wag, who would laugh at such cookery!"
  Thus, from his perch, did I hear a black crow[4]
Caw angrily out, while the rest of the rookery
  Opened their bills and re-echoed "Wo! wo!"


[1] Suggested by a speech of the Bishop of Chester on the subject of the
New Reformation in Ireland, in which his Lordship denounced "Wo! Wo! Wo!"
pretty abundantly on all those who dared to interfere with its progress.

[2] The inextenguishable fire of St. Bridget, at Kildare.

[3] "We understand that several applications have lately been made to the
Protestant clergymen of this town by fellows, inquiring 'What are they
giving a head for converts?'"--_Wexford Post_.

[4] Of the rook species--_Corvus frugilegus_, i.e. a great consumer of
corn.






TOUT POUR LA TRIPE.


    "If in China or among the natives of India, we claimed civil
    advantages which were connected with religious usages, little as
    we might value those forms in our hearts, we should think common
    decency required us to abstain from treating them with offensive
    contumely; and, though unable to consider them sacred, we would not
    sneer at the name of _Fot_, or laugh at the imputed divinity
    of _Visthnou_."--_Courier, Tuesday. Jan_. 16.


1827.


Come take my advice, never trouble your cranium,
  When "civil advantages" are to be gained,
What god or what goddess may help to obtain you 'em,
  Hindoo or Chinese, so they're only obtained.

In this world (let me hint in your organ auricular)
  All the good things to good hypocrites fall;
And he who in swallowing creeds is particular,
  Soon will have nothing to swallow at all.

Oh place me where _Fo_ (or, as some call him, _Fot_)
  Is the god from whom "civil advantages" flow,
And you'll find, if there's anything snug to be got,
  I shall soon be on excellent terms with old _Fo_.

Or were I where _Vishnu_, that four-handed god,
  Is the quadruple giver of pensions and places,
I own I should feel it unchristian and odd
  Not to find myself also in _Vishnu's_ good graces.

For among all the gods that humanely attend
  To our wants in this planet, the gods to _my_ wishes
Are those that, like _Vishnu_ and others, descend
  In the form so attractive, of loaves and of fishes![1]

So take my advice--for if even the devil
  Should tempt men again as an idol to try him,
'Twere best for us Tories even then to be civil,
  As nobody doubts we should get something by him.


[1] Vishnu was (as Sir W. Jones calls him) "a pisciform god,"--his first
Avatar being in the shape of a fish.






ENIGMA.


    _monstrum nulla virtute_ redemptum.


Come, riddle-me-ree, come, riddle-me-ree,
  And tell me what my name may be.
I am nearly one hundred and thirty years old,
  And therefore no chicken, as you may suppose;--
Tho' a dwarf in my youth (as my nurses have told),
  I have, every year since, been out-growing my clothes:
Till at last such a corpulent giant I stand,
  That if folks were to furnish me now with a suit,
It would take every morsel of _scrip_ in the land
  But to measure my bulk from the head to the foot.
Hence they who maintain me, grown sick of my stature,
  To cover me nothing but _rags_ will supply;
And the doctors declare that in due course of nature
  About the year 30 in rags I shall die.
Meanwhile, I stalk hungry and bloated around,
  An object of _interest_ most painful to all;
In the warehouse, the cottage, the place I'm found,
  Holding citizen, peasant, and king in nay thrall.
    Then riddle-me-ree, oh riddle-me-ree,
    Come tell me what my name may be.

When the lord of the counting-house bends o'er his book,
  Bright pictures of profit delighting to draw,
O'er his shoulders with large cipher eyeballs I look,
  And down drops the pen from his paralyzed paw!
When the Premier lies dreaming of dear Waterloo,
  And expects thro' _another_ to caper and prank it,
You'd laugh did you see, when I bellow out "Boo!"
  How he hides his brave Waterloo head in the blanket.
When mighty Belshazzar brims high in the hall
  His cup, full of gout, to the Gaul's overthrow,
Lo, "_Eight Hundred Millions_" I write on the wall,
  And the cup falls to earth and--the gout to his toe!
But the joy of my heart is when largely I cram
  My maw with the fruits of the Squirearchy's acres,
And knowing who made me the thing that I am,
  Like the monster of Frankenstein, worry my makers.
    Then riddle-me-ree, come, riddle-me-ree,
    And tell, if thou know'st, who _I_ may be.






DOG-DAY REFLECTIONS.

BY A DANDY KEPT IN TOWN.


    _"vox clamantis in deserto."_


1827.


Said Malthus one day to a clown
  Lying stretched on the beach in the sun,--
"What's the number of souls in this town?"--
  "The number! Lord bless you, there's none.

"We have nothing but _dabs_ in this place,
  "Of them a great plenty there are;--
But the _soles_, please your reverence and grace,
  "Are all t'other side of the bar."

And so 'tis in London just now,
  Not a soul to be seen up or down;--
Of _dabs_? a great glut, I allow,
  But your _soles_, every one, out of town.

East or west nothing wondrous or new,
  No courtship or scandal worth knowing;
Mrs. B---, and a Mermaid[1] or two,
  Are the only loose fish that are going.

Ah, where is that dear house of Peers
  That some weeks ago kept us merry?
Where, Eldon, art thou with thy tears?
And thou with thy sense, Londonderry?

Wise Marquis, how much the Lord Mayor,
  In the dog-days, with _thee_ must be puzzled!--
It being his task to take care
  That such animals shan't go unmuzzled.

Thou too whose political toils
  Are so worthy a captain of horse--
Whose amendments[2] (like honest Sir Boyle's)
  Are "_amendments_, that make matters _worse_;"[3]

Great Chieftain, who takest such pains
  To prove--what is granted, _nem_. _con_.--
With how moderate a portion of brains
  Some heroes contrive to get on.

And thou too my Redesdale, ah! where
  Is the peer with a star at his button,
Whose _quarters_ could ever compare
  With Redesdale's five quarters of mutton?[4]

Why, why have ye taken your flight,
  Ye diverting and dignified crew?
How ill do three farces a night,
  At the Haymarket, pay us for you!

For what is Bombastes to thee,
  My Ellenbro', when thou look'st big
Or where's the burletta can be
  Like Lauderdale's wit and his wig?

I doubt if even Griffinhoof[5] could
  (Tho' Griffin's a comical lad)
Invent any joke half so good
  As that precious one, "This is too bad!"

Then come again, come again Spring!
  Oh haste thee, with Fun in thy train;
And--of all things the funniest--bring
  These exalted Grimaldis again!


[1] One of the shows of London.

[2] More particularly his Grace's celebrated amendment to the Corn Bill:
for which, and the circumstances connected with it, see Annual Register
for A. D. 1827.

[3] From a speech of Sir Boyle Roche's, in the Irish House of Commons.

[4] The learning his Lordship displayed on the subject of the butcher's
"fifth quarter" of mutton will not speedily be forgotten.

[5] The _nom de guerre_ under which Colman has written some of his
best farces.






THE "LIVING DOG" AND "THE DEAD LION."

1828.


Next week will be published (as "Lives" are the rage)
  The whole Reminiscences, wondrous and strange,
Of a small puppy-dog that lived once in the cage
  Of the late noble Lion at Exeter 'Change.

Tho' the dog is a dog of the kind they call "sad,"
  'Tis a puppy that much to good breeding pretends;
And few dogs have such opportunities had
  Of knowing how Lions behave--among friends;

How that animal eats, how he snores, how he drinks,
  Is all noted down by this Boswell so small;
And 'tis plain from each sentence, the puppy-dog thinks
  That the Lion was no such great things after all.

Tho' he roared pretty well--this the puppy allows--
  It was all, he says, borrowed--all second-hand roar;
And he vastly prefers his own little bow-wows
  To the loftiest war-note the Lion could pour.

'Tis indeed as good fun as a _Cynic_ could ask,
  To see how this cockney-bred setter of rabbits
Takes gravely the Lord of the Forest to task,
  And judges of lions by puppy-dog habits.

Nay, fed as he was (and this makes it a dark case)
  With sops every day from the Lion's own pan,
He lifts up his leg at the noble beast's carcass.
  And does all a dog so diminutive can.

However, the book's a good book, being rich in
  Examples and warnings to lions high-bred,
How they suffer small mongrelly curs in their kitchen,
  Who'll feed on them living and foul them when dead.

T. PIDCOCK

_Exeter 'Change_,






ODE TO DON MIGUEL.


    Et tu, _Brute_!


1828.[1]


What! Miguel, _not_ patriotic! oh, fy!
  After so much good teaching 'tis quite a _take-in_, Sir;
First schooled as you were under Metternich's eye,
  And then (as young misses say) "finisht" at Windsor![2]

I ne'er in my life knew a case that was harder;--
  Such feasts as you had when you made us a call!
Three courses each day from his Majesty's larder,--
  And now to turn absolute Don after all!!

Some authors, like Bayes, to the style and the matter
  Of each thing they _write_ suit the way that they _dine_,
Roast sirloin for Epic, broiled devils for Satire,
  And hotchpotch and _trifle_ for rhymes such as mine.

That Rulers should feed the same way, I've no doubt;--
  Great Despots on _bouilli_ served up _a la Russe_,[3]
Your small German Princes on frogs and sour crout,
  And your Viceroy of Hanover always on _goose_.

_Some_ Dons too have fancied (tho' this may be fable)
  A dish rather dear, if in cooking they blunder it;--
Not content with the common _hot_ meat _on_ a table,
  They're partial (eh, Mig?) to a dish of _cold under_ it![4]

No wonder a Don of such appetites found
  Even Windsor's collations plebeianly plain;
Where the dishes most _high_ that my Lady sends round
  Are here _Maintenon_ cutlets and soup _a la Reine_.

Alas! that a youth with such charming beginnings,
  Should sink all at once to so sad a conclusion,
And what is still worse, throw the losings and winnings
  Of worthies on 'Change into so much confusion!

The Bulls, in hysterics--the Bears just as bad--
  The few men who _have_, and the many who've _not_ tick,
All shockt to find out that that promising lad,
  Prince Metternich's pupil, is--_not_ patriotic!


[1] At the commencement of this year, the designs of Don Miguel and his
partisans against the constitution established by his brother had begun
more openly to declare themselves.

[2] Don Miguel had paid a visit to the English court at the close of the
year 1827.

[3] Dressed with a pint of the strongest spirits--a favorite dish of the
Great Frederick of Prussia, and which he persevered in eating even on his
death-bed, much to the horror of his physician Zimmerman.

[4] This quiet case of murder, with all its particulars--the hiding the
body under the dinner-table, etc.--is, no doubt, well known to the reader.






THOUGHTS ON THE PRESENT GOVERNMENT OF IRELAND.

1828.


Oft have I seen, in gay, equestrian pride,
Some well-rouged youth round Astley's Circus ride
Two stately steeds--standing, with graceful straddle,
Like him of Rhodes, with foot on either saddle,
While to soft tunes--some jigs and some _andantes_--
He steers around his light-paced Rosinantes.

So rides along, with canter smooth and pleasant,
That horseman bold, Lord Anglesea, at present;--
_Papist_ and _Protestant_ the coursers twain,
That lend their necks to his impartial rein,
And round the ring--each honored, as they go,
With equal pressure from his gracious toe--

To the old medley tune, half "Patrick's Day"
And half "Boyne Water," take their cantering way,
While Peel, the showman in the middle, cracks
His long-lasht whip to cheer the doubtful hacks.
Ah, ticklish trial of equestrian art!
How blest, if neither steed would bolt or start;--
If _Protestant's_ old restive tricks were gone,
And _Papist's_ winkers could be still kept on!
But no, false hopes--not even the great Ducrow
'Twixt two such steeds could 'scape an overthrow:
If _solar_ hacks played Phaeton a trick,
What hope, alas, from hackneys _lunatic_?

If once my Lord his graceful balance loses,
Or fails to keep each foot where each horse chooses;
If Peel but gives one _extra_ touch of whip
To _Papist's_ tail or _Protestant's_ ear-tip--
That instant ends their glorious horsmanship!
Off bolt the severed steeds, for mischief free.
And down between them plumps Lord Anglesea!






THE LIMBO OF LOST REPUTATIONS.

A DREAM.


    "_Cio che si perde qui, la si raguna_."
    ARIOSTO.

    "---a valley, where he sees
    Things that on earth were lost."
    MILTON.


1828.


Knowest thou not him[1] the poet sings,
  Who flew to the moon's serene domain,
And saw that valley where all the things,
  That vanish on earth are found again--
The hopes of youth, the resolves of age,
The vow of the lover, the dream of the sage,
The golden visions of mining cits,
  The promises great men strew about them;
And, packt in compass small, the wits
  Of monarchs who rule as well without them!--
Like him, but diving with wing profound,
I have been to a Limbo underground,
Where characters lost on earth, (and _cried_,
In vain, like Harris's, far and wide,)
In heaps like yesterday's orts, are thrown
And there, so worthless and flyblown
That even the imps would not purloin them,
Lie till their worthy owners join them.

Curious it was to see this mass
  Of lost and torn-up reputations;--
Some of them female wares, alas!
  Mislaid at _innocent_ assignations;
Some, that had sighed their last amen
  From the canting lips of saints that would be;
And some once owned by "the best of men,"
  Who had proved-no better than they should be.
'Mong others, a poet's fame I spied,
  Once shining fair, now soakt and black--
"No wonder" (an imp at my elbow cried),
  "For I pickt it out of a butt of sack!"

Just then a yell was heard o'er head,
  Like a chimney-sweeper's lofty summons;
And lo! a devil right downward sped,
Bringing within his claws so red
Two statesmen's characters, found, he said,
  Last night, on the floor of the House of Commons;
The which, with black official grin,
He now to the Chief Imp handed in;--
_Both_ these articles much the worse
  For their journey down, as you may suppose;
But _one_ so devilish rank--"Odd's curse!".
  Said the Lord Chief Imp, and held his nose.
"Ho, ho!" quoth he, "I know full well
  "From whom these two stray matters fell;"--
Then, casting away, with loathful shrug,
The uncleaner waif (as he would a drug
The Invisible's own dark hand had mixt),
His gaze on the other[2] firm he fixt,
And trying, tho' mischief laught in his eye,
To be moral because of the _young_ imps by,
"What a pity!" he cried--"so fresh its gloss,
"So long preserved--'tis a public loss!
"This comes of a man, the careless blockhead,
"Keeping his character in his pocket;
"And there--without considering whether
"There's room for that and his gains together--
"Cramming and cramming and cramming away,
"Till--out slips character some fine day!

"However"--and here he viewed it round--
"This article still may pass for sound.
"Some flaws, soon patched, some stains are all
"The harm it has had in its luckless fall.
"Here, Puck!" and he called to one of his train--
"The owner may have this back again.
"Tho' damaged for ever, if used with skill,
"It may serve perhaps to _trade on_ still;
"Tho' the gem can never as once be set,
"It will do for a Tory Cabinet."


[1] Astolpho.

[2] Huskisson.






HOW TO WRITE BY PROXY.


    _qui facit per alium facit per se_.


'Mong our neighbors, the French, in the good olden time
  When Nobility flourisht, great Barons and Dukes
Often set up for authors in prose and in rhyme,
  But ne'er took the trouble to write their own books.

Poor devils were found to do this for their betters;--
  And one day a Bishop, addressing a _Blue_,
Said, "Ma'am, have you read my new Pastoral Letters?"
  To which the _Blue_ answered--"No, Bishop, have you?"

The same is now done by _our_ privileged class;
  And to show you how simple the process it needs,
If a great Major-General[1] wishes to pass
  For an author of History, thus he proceeds:--

First, scribbling his own stock of notions as well
  As he can, with a _goose_-quill that claims him as _kin_,
He settles his neckcloth--takes snuff--rings the bell,
  And yawningly orders a Subaltern in.

The Subaltern comes--sees his General seated,
  In all the self-glory of authorship swelling;--
"There look," saith his Lordship, "my work is completed,--
"It wants nothing now but the grammar and spelling."

Well used to a _breach_, the brave Subaltern dreads
  Awkward breaches of syntax a hundred times more;
And tho' often condemned to see breaking of heads,
  He had ne'er seen such breaking of Priscian's before.

However, the job's sure to _pay_--that's enough--
  So, to it he sets with his tinkering hammer,
Convinced that there never was job half so tough
As the mending a great Major-General's grammar.

But lo! a fresh puzzlement starts up to view--
  New toil for the Sub.--for the Lord new expense:
'Tis discovered that mending his _grammar_ won't do,
  As the Subaltern also must find him in _sense_!

At last--even this is achieved by his aid;
  Friend Subaltern pockets the cash and--the story;
Drums beat--the new Grand March of Intellect's played--
  And off struts my Lord, the Historian, in glory!


[1] Or Lieutenant-General, as it may happen to be.






IMITATION OF THE INFERNO OF DANTE.


    _"Cosi quel fiato gli spiriti mali
    Di qua, di la, di giu, di su gli mena."_


    _Inferno_, canto 5.


I turned my steps and lo! a shadowy throng
Of ghosts came fluttering towards me--blown along,
Like cockchafers in high autumnal storms,
By many a fitful gust that thro' their forms
Whistled, as on they came, with wheezy puff,
And puft as--tho' they'd never puff enough.

"Whence and what are ye?" pitying I inquired
Of these poor ghosts, who, tattered, tost, and tired
With such eternal puffing, scarce could stand
On their lean legs while answering my demand.
"We once were authors"--thus the Sprite, who led
This tag-rag regiment of spectres, said--
"Authors of every sex, male, female, neuter,
"Who, early smit with love of praise and--_pewter_,[1]
"On C--lb--n's shelves first saw the light of day,
"In ---'s puffs exhaled our lives away--
"Like summer windmills, doomed to dusty peace,
"When the brisk gales that lent them motion, cease.
"Ah! little knew we then what ills await
"Much-lauded scribblers in their after-state;
"Bepuft on earth--how loudly Str--t can tell--
"And, dire reward, now doubly puft in hell!"

  Touched with compassion for this ghastly crew,
Whose ribs even now the hollow wind sung thro'
In mournful prose,--such prose as Rosa's[2] ghost
Still, at the accustomed hour of eggs and toast,
Sighs thro' the columns of the _Morning Post_,--
Pensive I turned to weep, when he who stood
Foremost of all that flatulential brood,
Singling a _she_-ghost from the party, said,
"Allow me to present Miss X. Y. Z.,[3]
"One of our _lettered_ nymphs--excuse the pun--
"Who gained a name on earth by--having none;
"And whose initials would immortal be,
"Had she but learned those plain ones, A. B. C.

"Yon smirking ghost, like mummy dry and neat,
"Wrapt in his own dead rhymes--fit winding-sheet--
"Still marvels much that not a soul should care
"One single pin to know who wrote 'May Fair;'--
"While this young gentleman," (here forth he drew
A dandy spectre, puft quite thro' and thro',
As tho' his ribs were an AEolian lyre
For the whole Row's soft _trade_winds to inspire,)
"This modest genius breathed one wish alone,
"To have his volume read, himself unknown;
"But different far the course his glory took,
"All knew the author, and--none read the book.

"Behold, in yonder ancient figure of fun,
"Who rides the blast, Sir Jonah Barrington;--
"In tricks to raise the wind his life was spent,
"And now the wind returns the compliment.
"This lady here, the Earl of ---'s sister,
"Is a dead novelist; and this is Mister--
"Beg pardon--_Honorable_ Mister Lister,
"A gentleman who some weeks since came over
"In a smart puff (wind S. S. E.) to Dover.
"Yonder behind us limps young Vivian Grey,
"Whose life, poor youth, was long since blown away--
"Like a torn paper-kite on which the wind
"No further purchase for a puff can find."

"And thou, thyself"--here, anxious, I exclaimed--
"Tell us, good ghost, how thou, thyself, art named."
"Me, Sir!" he blushing cried--"Ah! there's the rub--
"Know, then--a waiter once at Brooks's Club,
"A waiter still I might have long remained,
"And long the club-room's jokes and glasses drained;
"But ah! in luckless hour, this last December,
"I wrote a book,[4] and Colburn dubbed me 'Member'--
"'Member of Brooks's!'--oh Promethean puff,
"To what wilt thou exalt even kitchen-stuff!
"With crumbs of gossip, caught from dining wits,
"And half-heard jokes, bequeathed, like half-chewed bits,
"To be, each night, the waiter's perquisites;--
"With such ingredients served up oft before,
"But with fresh fudge and fiction garnisht o'er,
"I managed for some weeks to dose the town,
"Till fresh reserves of nonsense ran me down;
"And ready still even waiters' souls to damn,
"The Devil but rang his bell, and--here I am;--
"Yes--'Coming _up_, Sir,' once my favorite cry,
"Exchanged for 'Coming _down_, Sir,' here am I!"

Scarce had the Spectre's lips these words let drop,
When, lo! a breeze--such as from ---'s shop
Blows in the vernal hour when puffs prevail,
And speeds the _sheets_ and swells the lagging _sale_--
Took the poor waiter rudely in the poop,
And whirling him and all his grisly group
Of literary ghosts--Miss X. Y. Z.--
The nameless author, better known than read--
Sir Jo--the Honorable Mr. Lister,
And last, not least, Lord Nobody's twin-sister--
Blew them, ye gods, with all their prose and rhymes
And sins about them, far into those climes
"Where Peter pitched his waistcoat"[5] in old times,
Leaving me much in doubt as on I prest,
With my great master, thro' this realm unblest,
Whether Old Nick or Colburn puffs the best.


[1] The classical term for money.

[2] Rosa Matilda, who was for many years the writer of the political
articles in the journal alluded to, and whose spirit still seems to
preside--"_regnat Rosa_"--over its pages.

[3] _Not_ the charming L. E. L., and still less, Mrs. F. H., whose poetry
is among the most beautiful of the present day.

[4] "History of the Clubs of London," announced as by "a Member of
Brooks's."

[5]A _Dantesque_ allusion to the old saying "Nine miles beyond Hell, where
Peter pitched his waistcoat."






LAMENT FOR THE LOSS OF LORD BATHURST'S TAIL.[1]


All _in_ again--unlookt for bliss!
Yet, ah! _one_ adjunct still we miss;--
One tender tie, attached so long
To the same head, thro' right and wrong.
Why, Bathurst, why didst thou cut off
  That memorable tail of thine?
Why--as if _one_ was not enough--
  Thy pig-tie with thy place resign,
And thus at once both _cut_ and _run_?
Alas! my Lord, 'twas not well done,
'Twas not, indeed,--tho' sad at heart,
From office and its sweets to part,
Yet hopes of coming in again,
Sweet Tory hopes! beguiled our pain;
But thus to miss that tail of thine,
Thro' long, long years our rallying sign--
As if the State and all its powers
By tenancy _in tail_ were ours--
To see it thus by scissors fall,
_This_ was "the unkindest _cut_ of all!"
It seemed as tho' the ascendant day
Of Toryism had past away,
And proving Samson's story true,
She lost her vigor with her _queue_.

Parties are much like fish, 'tis said--
The tail directs them, not the head;
Then how could _any_ party fail,
That steered its course by Bathurst's tail?
Not Murat's plume thro' Wagram's fight
  E'er shed such guiding glories from it,
As erst in all true Tories sight,
  Blazed from our old Colonial comet!
If you, my Lord, a Bashaw were,
(As Wellington will be anon)
Thou mightst have had a tail to spare;
  But no! alas! thou hadst but one,
  And _that_--like Troy, or Babylon,
  A tale of other times--is gone!
Yet--weep ye not, ye Tories true--
  Fate has not yet of all bereft us;
Though thus deprived of Bathurst's _queue_,
  We've Ellenborough's _curls_ still left us:--
Sweet curls, from which young Love, so vicious,
His shots, as from nine-pounders, issues;
Grand, glorious curls, which in debate
Surcharged with all a nation's fate,
His Lordship shakes, as Homer's God did,[2]
  And oft in thundering talk comes near him;
Except that there the _speaker_ nodded
  And here 'tis only those who hear him.
Long, long, ye ringlets, on the soil
  Of that fat cranium may ye flourish,
With plenty of Macassar oil
  Thro' many a year your growth to nourish!
And ah! should Time too soon unsheath
  His barbarous shears such locks to sever,
Still dear to Tories even in death,
Their last loved relics we'll bequeath,
  A _hair_-loom to our sons for ever.


[1] The noble Lord, as is well known, cut off this much-respected
appendage on his retirement from office some months since.

[2] "Shakes his ambrosial curls, and gives the nod."--Pope's _Homer_.






THE CHERRIES.

A PARABLE.[1]

1838.


See those cherries, how they cover
  Yonder sunny garden wall;--
Had they not that network over,
  Thieving birds would eat them all.

So to guard our posts and pensions,
  Ancient sages wove a net,
Thro' whose holes of small dimensions
  Only _certain_ knaves can get.

Shall we then this network widen;
  Shall we stretch these sacred holes,
Thro' which even already slide in
  Lots of small dissenting souls?

"God forbid!" old Testy crieth;
  "God forbid!" so echo I;
Every ravenous bird that flieth
  Then would at our cherries fly.

Ope but half an inch or so,
  And, behold! what bevies break in;--
_Here_ some curst old Popish crow
  Pops his long and lickerish beak in;

_Here_ sly Arians flock unnumbered,
  And Socinians, slim and spare,
Who with small belief encumbered
  Slip in easy anywhere;--

Methodists, of birds the aptest,
  Where there's _pecking_ going on;
And that water-fowl, the Baptist--
  All would share our fruits anon;

Every bird of every city,
  That for years with ceaseless din,
Hath reverst the starling's ditty,
  Singing out "I can't get in."

"God forbid!" old _Testy_ snivels;
  "God forbid!" I echo too;
Rather may ten thousand devils
  Seize the whole voracious crew!

If less costly fruits won't suit 'em,
  Hips and haws and such like berries,
Curse the cormorants! stone 'em, shoot 'em,
  Anything--to save our cherries.


[1] Written during the late discussion on the Test and Corporation Acts.






STANZAS WRITTEN IN ANTICIPATION OF DEFEAT.[1]

1828.


Go seek for some abler defenders of wrong,
  If we _must_ run the gantlet thro' blood and expense;
Or, Goths as ye are, in your multitude strong,
  Be content with success and pretend not to sense.

If the words of the wise and the generous are vain,
  If Truth by the bowstring _must_ yield up her breath,
Let Mutes do the office--and spare her the pain
  Of an Inglis or Tyndal to talk her to death.

Chain, persecute, plunder--do all that you will--
  But save us, at least, the old womanly lore
Of a Foster, who, dully prophetic of ill,
  Is at once the _two_ instruments, AUGUR[2] and BORE.

Bring legions of Squires--if they'll only be mute--
  And array their thick heads against reason and right,
Like the Roman of old, of historic repute,[3]
  Who with droves of dumb animals carried the fight;

Pour out from each corner and hole of the Court
  Your Bedchamber lordlings, your salaried slaves,
Who, ripe for all job-work, no matter what sort,
  Have their consciences tackt to their patents and staves.

Catch all the small fry who, as Juvenal sings,
  Are the Treasury's creatures, wherever they swim;
With all the base, time-serving _toadies_ of Kings,
  Who, if Punch were the monarch, would worship even him;

And while on the _one_ side each name of renown
  That illumines and blesses our age is combined;
While the Foxes, the Pitts, and the Cannings look down,
  And drop o'er the cause their rich mantles of Mind;

Let bold Paddy Holmes show his troops on the other,
  And, counting of noses the quantum desired,
Let Paddy but say, like the Gracchi's famed mother,
  "Come forward, my _jewels_"--'tis all that's required.

And thus let your farce be enacted hereafter--
  Thus honestly persecute, outlaw and chain;
But spare even your victims the torture of laughter,
  And never, oh never, try _reasoning_ again!


[1] During the discussion of the Catholic question in the House of Commons
last session.

[2] This rhyme is more for the ear than the eye, as the carpenter's tool
is spelt _auger_.

[3] Fabius, who sent droves of bullock against the enemy.






ODE TO THE WOODS AND FORESTS.

BY ONE OF THE BOARD.

1828.


Let other bards to groves repair,
  Where linnets strain their tuneful throats;
Mine be the Woods and Forests where
  The Treasury pours its sweeter _notes_.

No whispering winds have charms for me,
  Nor zephyr's balmy sighs I ask;
To raise the wind for Royalty
  Be all our Sylvan zephyr's task!

And 'stead of crystal brooks and floods,
  And all such vulgar irrigation,
Let Gallic rhino thro' our Woods
  Divert its "course of liquidation."

Ah, surely, Vergil knew full well
  What Woods and Forests _ought_ to be,
When sly, he introduced in hell
  His guinea-plant, his bullion-tree;[1]--

Nor see I why, some future day,
  When short of cash, we should not send
Our Herries down--he knows the way--
  To see if Woods in hell will _lend_.

Long may ye flourish, sylvan haunts,
  Beneath whose "_branches_ of expense"
Our gracious King gets all he wants,--
  _Except_ a little taste and sense.

Long, in your golden shade reclined.
  Like him of fair Armida's bowers,
May Wellington some _wood_-nymph find,
  To cheer his dozenth lustrum's hours;

To rest from toil the Great Untaught,
  And soothe the pangs his warlike brain
Must suffer, when, unused to thought,
  It tries to think and--tries in vain.

Oh long may Woods and Forests be
  Preserved in all their teeming graces,
To shelter Tory bards like me
  Who take delight in Sylvan _places_!


[1] Called by Vergil, botanically, "species _aurifrondentis_."






STANZAS FROM THE BANKS OF THE SHANNON.[1]

1828.


    "Take back the virgin page."
    MOORE'S _Irish Melodies_.


No longer dear Vesey, feel hurt and uneasy
  At hearing it said by the Treasury brother,
That thou art a sheet of blank paper, my Vesey,
  And he, the dear, innocent placeman, another.[2]

For lo! what a service we Irish have done thee;--
  Thou now art a sheet of blank paper no more;
By St. Patrick, we've scrawled such a lesson upon thee
  As never was scrawled upon foolscap before.

Come--on with your spectacles, noble Lord Duke,
  (Or O'Connell has _green_ ones he haply would lend you,)
Read Vesey all o'er (as you _can't_ read a book)
  And improve by the lesson we bog-trotters send you;

A lesson, in large _Roman_ characters traced,
  Whose awful impressions from you and your kin
Of blank-sheeted statesmen will ne'er be effaced--
  Unless, 'stead of _paper_, you're mere _asses' skin_.

Shall I help you to construe it? ay, by the Gods,
  Could I risk a translation, you _should_ have a rare one;
But pen against sabre is desperate odds,
  And you, my Lord Duke (as you _hinted_ once), wear one.

Again and again I say, read Vesey o'er;--
  You will find him worth all the old scrolls of papyrus
That Egypt e'er filled with nonsensical lore,
  Or the learned Champollion e'er wrote of, to tire us.

All blank as he was, we've returned him on hand,
  Scribbled o'er with a warning to Princes and Dukes,
Whose plain, simple drift if they _won't_ understand,
  Tho' carest at St. James's, they're fit for St. Luke's.

Talk of leaves of the Sibyls!--more meaning conveyed is
  In one single leaf such as now we have spelled on,
Than e'er hath been uttered by all the old ladies
  That ever yet spoke, from the Sibyls to Eldon.


[1] These verses were suggested by the result of the Clare election, in
the year 1828, when the Right Honorable W. Vesey Fitzgerald was rejected,
and Mr. O'Connell returned.

[2] Some expressions to this purport, in a published letter of one of
these gentlemen, had then produced a good deal of amusement.






THE ANNUAL PILL.


Supposed to be sung by OLD PROSY, the Jew, in the character of Major
CARTWRIGHT.


Vill nobodies try my nice _Annual Pill_,
  Dat's to purify every ting nashty avay?
Pless ma heart, pless ma heart, let ma say vat I vill,
  Not a Chrishtian or Shentleman minds vat I say.
  'Tis so pretty a bolus!--just down let it go,
  And, at vonce, such a _radical_ shange you vill see,
Dat I'd not be surprished, like de horse in de show,
  If your heads all vere found, vere your tailsh ought to be!
  Vill nobodies try my nice _Annual Pill_, etc.

'Twill cure all Electors and purge away clear
  Dat mighty bad itching dey've got in deir hands--
'Twill cure too all Statesmen of dulness, ma tear,
  Tho' the case vas as desperate as poor Mister VAN'S.
Dere is noting at all vat dis Pill vill not reach--
  Give the Sinecure Ghentleman van little grain,
Pless ma heart, it vill act, like de salt on de leech,
  And he'll throw de pounds, shillings, and pence, up again!
  Vill nobodies try my nice _Annual Pill_, etc.

'Twould be tedious, ma tear, all its peauties to paint--
  "But, among oder tings _fundamentally_ wrong,
It vill cure de Proad Pottom[1]--a common complaint
  Among M.P.'s and weavers--from _sitting_ too long.
Should symptoms of _speeching_ preak out on a dunce
  (Vat is often de case), it vill stop de disease,
And pring avay all de long speeches at vonce,
  Dat else vould, like tape-worms, come by degrees!

Vill nobodies try my nice _Annual Pill_,
  Dat's to purify every ting nashty avay?
Pless ma heart, pless ma heart, let me say vat I vill,
  Not a Chrishtian or Shentleman minds vat I say!


[1] Meaning, I presume, _Coalition_ Administrations.






"IF" AND "PERHAPS."[1]


Oh tidings of freedom! oh accents of hope!
  Waft, waft them, ye zephyrs, to Erin's blue sea,
And refresh with their sounds every son of the Pope,
  From Dingle-a-cooch to far Donaghadee.

"_If_ mutely the slave will endure and obey,
  "Nor clanking his fetters nor breathing his pains,
"His masters _perhaps_ at some far distant day
  "May _think_ (tender tyrants!) of loosening his chains."

Wise "if" and "perhaps!"--precious salve for our wounds,
  If he who would rule thus o'er manacled mutes,
Could check the free spring-tide of Mind that resounds,
  Even now at his feet, like the sea at Canute's.

But, no, 'tis in vain--the grand impulse is given--
  Man knows his high Charter, and knowing will claim;
And if ruin _must_ follow where fetters are riven,
  Be theirs who have forged them the guilt and the shame.

"_If_ the slave will be silent!"--vain Soldier, beware--
  There _is_ a dead silence the wronged may assume,
When the feeling, sent back from the lips in despair,
  But clings round the heart with a deadlier gloom;--

When the blush that long burned on the suppliant's cheek,
  Gives place to the avenger's pale, resolute hue;
And the tongue that once threatened, disdaining to _speak_,
  Consigns to the arm the high office--to _do_.

_If_ men in that silence should think of the hour
  When proudly their fathers in panoply stood,
Presenting alike a bold front-work of power
  To the despot on land and the foe on the flood:--

That hour when a Voice had come forth from the west,
  To the slave bringing hopes, to the tyrant alarms;
And a lesson long lookt for was taught the opprest,
  That kings are as dust before freemen in arms!

_If_, awfuller still, the mute slave should recall
  That dream of his boyhood, when Freedom's sweet day
At length seemed to break thro' a long night of thrall,
  And Union and Hope went abroad in its ray;--

_If_ Fancy should tell him, that Dayspring of Good,
  Tho' swiftly its light died away from his chain,
Tho' darkly it set in a nation's best blood,
  Now wants but invoking to shine out again;

_If--if_, I say--breathings like these should come o'er
  The chords of remembrance, and thrill as they come,
Then,--_perhaps_--ay, _perhaps_--but I dare not say more;
  Thou hast willed that thy slaves should be mute--I am dumb.


[1] Written after hearing a celebrated speech in the House of Lords, June
10, 1828, when the motion in favor of Catholic Emancipation, brought
forward by the Marquis of Lansdowne, was rejected by the House of Lords.






WRITE ON, WRITE ON.

A BALLAD.


Air.--"_Sleep on, sleep on, my Kathleen dear.
          salvete, fratres Asini_. ST. FRANCIS.


Write on, write on, ye Barons dear,
  Ye Dukes, write hard and fast;
The good we've sought for many a year
  Your quills will bring at last.
One letter more, Newcastle, pen,
  To match Lord Kenyon's _two_,
And more than Ireland's host of men,
  One brace of Peers will do.
          Write on, write on, etc.

Sure never since the precious use
  Of pen and ink began,
Did letters writ by fools produce
  Such signal good to man.
While intellect, 'mong high and low,
  Is marching _on_, they say,
Give _me_ the Dukes and Lords who go
Like crabs, the _other_ way.
          Write on, write on, etc.

Even now I feel the coming light--
  Even now, could Folly lure
My Lord Mountcashel too to write,
  Emancipation's sure.
By geese (we read in history),
  Old Rome was saved from ill;
And now to _quills_ of geese we see
  Old Rome indebted still.
          Write on, write on, etc.

Write, write, ye Peers, nor stoop to style,
  Nor beat for sense about--
Things little worth a Noble's while
  You're better far without.
Oh ne'er, since asses spoke of yore,
  Such miracles were done;
For, write but four such letters more,
  And Freedom's cause is won!






SONG OF THE DEPARTING SPIRIT OF TITHE.


    "The parting Genius is with sighing sent."
    MILTON.


It is o'er, it is o'er, my reign is o'er;
I hear a Voice, from shore to shore,
From Dunfanaghy to Baltimore,
And it saith, in sad, parsonic tone,
"Great Tithe and Small are dead and gone!"

Even now I behold your vanishing wings,
Ye Tenths of all conceivable things,
Which Adam first, as Doctors deem,
Saw, in a sort of night-mare dream,[1]
After the feast of fruit abhorred--
First indigestion on record!--
Ye decimate ducks, ye chosen chicks,
Ye pigs which, tho' ye be Catholics,
Or of Calvin's most select depraved,
In the Church must have your bacon saved;--
Ye fields, where Labor counts his sheaves,
And, whatsoever _himself_ believes,
Must bow to the Establisht _Church_ belief,
That the tenth is always a _Protestant_ sheaf;--
Ye calves of which the man of Heaven
Takes _Irish_ tithe, one calf in seven;[2]
Ye tenths of rape, hemp, barley, flax,
Eggs, timber, milk, fish and bees' wax;
All things in short since earth's creation,
Doomed, by the Church's dispensation,
To suffer eternal decimation--
Leaving the whole _lay_-world, since then,
Reduced to nine parts out of ten;
Or--as we calculate thefts and arsons--
Just _ten per cent_. the worse for Parsons!

Alas! and is all this wise device
For the saving of souls thus gone in a trice?--
The whole put down, in the simplest way,
By the souls resolving _not_ to pay!
And even the Papist, thankless race
Who have had so much the easiest case--
To _pay_ for our sermons doomed, 'tis true,
But not condemned to _hear them_, too--
(Our holy business being, 'tis known,
With the ears of their barley, not their own,)
Even _they_ object to let us pillage
By right divine their tenth of tillage,
And, horror of horrors, even decline
To find us in sacramental wine![3]

It is o'er, it is o'er, my reign is o'er,
Ah! never shall rosy Rector more,
Like the shepherds of Israel, idly eat,
And make of his flock "a prey and meat."[4]
No more shall be his the pastoral sport
Of suing his flock in the Bishop's Court,
Thro' various steps, Citation, Libel--
_Scriptures_ all, but _not_ the Bible;
Working the Law's whole apparatus,
To get at a few predoomed potatoes,
And summoning all the powers of wig,
To settle the fraction of a pig!--
Till, parson and all committed deep
In the case of "Shepherds _versus_ Sheep,"
The Law usurps the Gospel's place,
And on Sundays meeting face to face,
While Plaintiff fills the preacher's station,
Defendants form the congregation.

So lives he, Mammon's priest, not Heaven's,
For _tenths_ thus all at _sixes_ and _sevens_,
Seeking what parsons love no less
Than tragic poets--a good _distress_.
Instead of studying St. Augustin,
Gregory Nyss., or old St. Justin
(Books fit only to hoard dust in),
His reverence stints his evening readings
To learned Reports of Tithe Proceedings,
Sipping the while that port so ruddy,
Which forms his only _ancient_ study;--
Port so old, you'd swear its tartar
Was of the age of Justin Martyr,
And, had he sipt of such, no doubt
His martyrdom would have been--to gout.

Is all then lost?--alas, too true--
Ye Tenths beloved, adieu, adieu!
My reign is o'er, my reign is o'er--
Like old Thumb's ghost, "I can no more."


[1] A reverend prebendary of Hereford, in an Essay on the Revenues of the
Church of England, has assigned the origin of Tithes to "some unrecorded
revelation made to Adam."

[2] "The tenth calf is due to the parson of common right; and if there are
seven he shall have one."--REES'S _Cyclopaedia_, art. "_Tithes_."

[3] Among the specimens laid before Parliament of the sort of Church rates
levied upon Catholics in Ireland, was a charge of two pipes of port for
sacramental wine.

[4] Ezekiel, xxxiv., 10.--"Neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any
more; for I will deliver my flock from their mouth, that they may not be
meat for them."






THE EUTHANASIA OF VAN.


    "We are told that the bigots are growing old and fast wearing out. If
    it be so why not let us die in peace?"
    --LORD BEXLEY'S _Letter to the Freeholders of Kent_.


Stop, Intellect, in mercy stop,
  Ye curst improvements, cease;
And let poor Nick Vansittart drop
  Into his grave in peace.

Hide, Knowledge, hide thy rising sun,
  Young Freedom, veil thy head;
Let nothing good be thought or done,
  Till Nick Vansittart's dead!

Take pity on a dotard's fears,
  Who much doth light detest;
And let his last few drivelling years
  Be dark as were the rest.

You too, ye fleeting one-pound notes,
  Speed not so fast away--
Ye rags on which old Nicky gloats,
  A few months longer stay.

Together soon, or much I err,
  You _both_ from life may go--
The notes unto the scavenger,
  And Nick--to Nick below.

Ye Liberals, whate'er your plan,
  Be all reforms suspended;
In compliment to dear old Van,
  Let nothing bad be mended.

Ye Papists, whom oppression wrings,
  Your cry politely cease,
And fret your hearts to fiddle-strings
  That Van may die in peace.

So shall he win a fame sublime
  By few old rag-men gained;
Since all shall own, in Nicky's time,
  Nor sense nor justice reigned.

So shall his name thro' ages past,
  And dolts ungotten yet,
Date from "the days of Nicholas,"
  With fond and sad regret;--

And sighing say, "Alas, had he
  "Been spared from Pluto's bowers,
"The blessed reign of Bigotry
  "And Rags might still be ours!"






TO THE REVEREND ----.

ONE OF THE SIXTEEN REQUISITIONISTS OF NOTTINGHAM.

1828.


What, _you_, too, my ******, in hashes so knowing,
  Of sauces and soups Aristarchus profest!
Are _you_, too, my savory Brunswicker, going
  To make an old fool of yourself with the rest?

Far better to stick to your kitchen receipts;
  And--if you want _something_ to tease--for variety,
Go study how Ude, in his "Cookery," treats
  Live eels when he fits them for polisht society.

Just snuggling them in, 'twixt the bars of the fire,
  He leaves them to wriggle and writhe on the coals,[1]
In a manner that Horner himself would admire,
  And wish, 'stead of _eels_, they were Catholic souls.

Ude tells us the fish little suffering feels;
  While Papists of late have more sensitive grown;
So take my advice, try your hand at live eels,
  And for _once_ let the other poor devils alone.

I have even a still better receipt for your cook--
  How to make a goose die of confirmed _hepatitis;_[2]
And if you'll, for once, _fellow_-feelings o'erlook,
  A well-tortured goose a most capital sight is.

First, catch him, alive--make a good steady fire--
  Set your victim before it, both legs being tied,
(As if left to himself he _might_ wish to retire,)
  And place a large bowl of rich cream by his side.

There roasting by inches, dry, fevered, and faint,
  Having drunk all the cream you so civilly laid, off,
He dies of as charming a liver complaint
  As ever sleek person could wish a pie made of.

Besides, only think, my dear one of Sixteen,
  What an emblem this bird, for the epicure's use meant.
Presents of the mode in which Ireland has been
  Made a tid-bit for yours and your brethren's amusement:

Tied down to the stake, while her limbs, as they quiver,
  A slow fire of tyranny wastes by degrees--
No wonder disease should have swelled up her liver,
  No wonder you, Gourmands, should love her disease.


[1] The only way, Monsieur Ude assures us, to get rid of the oil so
objectionable in this fish.

[2] A liver complaint. The process by which the livers of geese are
enlarged for the famous _Pates de foie d'oie_.






IRISH ANTIQUITIES.


According to some learned opinions
The Irish once were Carthaginians;
But trusting to more late descriptions
I'd rather say they were Egyptians.
My reason's this:--the Priests of Isis,
  When forth they marched in long array,
Employed, 'mong other grave devices,
  A Sacred Ass to lead the way;
And still the antiquarian traces
  'Mong Irish Lords this Pagan plan,
For still in all religious cases
  They put Lord Roden in the van.






A CURIOUS FACT.


The present Lord Kenyon (the Peer who writes letters,
For which the waste-paper folks much are his debtors)
Hath one little oddity well worth reciting,
Which puzzleth observers even more than his writing.
Whenever Lord Kenyon doth chance to behold
A cold Apple-pie--mind, the pie _must_ be cold--
His Lordship looks solemn (few people know why),
And he makes a low bow to the said apple-pie.
This idolatrous act in so "vital" a Peer,
Is by most serious Protestants thought rather queer--
Pie-worship, they hold, coming under the head
(Vide _Crustium_, chap, iv.) of the Worship of Bread.
Some think 'tis a tribute, as author he owes
For the service that pie-crust hath done to his prose;--
The only good things in his pages, they swear,
Being those that the pastry-cook sometimes put there.
_Others_ say, 'tis a homage, thro' piecrust conveyed,
To our Glorious Deliverer's much-honored shade;
As that Protestant Hero (or Saint, if you please)
Was as fond of cold pie as he was of green pease,[1]
And 'tis solely in loyal remembrance of that,
My Lord Kenyon to apple-pie takes off his hat.
While others account for this kind salutation;"--
By what Tony Lumpkin calls "concatenation;"
A certain good-will that, from sympathy's ties,
'Twixt old _Apple_-women and _Orange_-men lies.

But 'tis needless to add, these are all vague surmises,
For thus, we're assured, the whole matter arises:
Lord Kenyon's respected old father (like many
Respected old fathers) was fond of a penny;
And loved so to save,[2] that--there's not the least question--
His death was brought on by a bad indigestion,
From cold apple-pie-crust his Lordship _would_ stuff in
At breakfast to save the expense of hot muffin.
Hence it is, and hence only, that cold apple-pies
Are beheld by his Heir with such reverent eyes--
Just as honest King Stephen his beaver might doff
To the fishes that carried his kind uncle off--
And while _filial_ piety urges so many on,
  'Tis pure _apple_-pie-ety moves my Lord Kenyon.


[1] See the anecdote, which the Duchess of Marlborough relates in her
Memoirs, of this polite hero appropriating to himself one day, at dinner,
a whole dish of green peas--the first of the season--while the poor
Princess Anne, who was then in a longing condition, sat by vainly
entreating with her eyes for a share.

[2] The same prudent propensity characterizes his descendant, who (as is
well known) would not even go to the expense of a diphthong on his
father's monument, but had the inscription spelled, economically,
thus:--"_mors janua vita_"






NEW-FASHIONED ECHOES.


Sir,--

Most of your readers are no doubt acquainted with the anecdote told of a
certain not over-wise judge who, when in the act of delivering a charge in
some country court-house, was interrupted by the braying of an ass at the
door. "What noise is that?" asked the angry judge. "Only an extraordinary
_echo_ there is in court, my Lord," answered one of the counsel.

As there are a number of such "extraordinary echoes" abroad just now, you
will not, perhaps, be unwilling, Mr. Editor, to receive the following few
lines suggested by them.

Yours, etc. S.

1828


    _huc coeamus,[1] ait; nullique libentius unquam responsura sono,
    coeamus, retulit echo_.
    OVID.


There are echoes, we know, of all sorts,
  From the echo that "dies in the dale,"
To the "airy-tongued babbler" that sports
  Up the tide of the torrent her "tale."

There are echoes that bore us, like Blues,
  With the latest smart _mot_ they have heard;
There are echoes extremely like shrews
  Letting nobody have the last word.

In the bogs of old Paddy-land, too.
  Certain "talented" echoes[2]  there dwell,
Who on being askt, "How do you do?"
  Politely reply, "Pretty well,"

But why should I talk any more
  Of such old-fashioned echoes as these,
When Britain has new ones in store,
  That transcend them by many degrees?

For of all repercussions of sound
  Concerning which bards make a pother,
There's none like that happy rebound
  When one blockhead echoes an other;--

When Kenyon commences the bray,
  And the Borough-Duke follows his track;
And loudly from Dublin's sweet bay
  Rathdowne brays, with interest, back!--

And while, of _most_ echoes the sound
  On our ear by reflection doth fall,
These Brunswickers[3] pass the bray round,
  Without any reflection at all.

Oh Scott, were I gifted like you,
  Who can name all the echoes there are
From Benvoirlich to bold Benvenue,
  From Benledi to wild Uamvar;

I might track thro' each hard Irish name
  The rebounds of this asinine strain,
Till from Neddy to Neddy, it came
  To the _chief_ Neddy, Kenyon, again;

Might tell how it roared in Rathdowne,
  How from Dawson it died off genteelly--
How hollow it hung from the crown
  Of the fat-pated Marquis of Ely;

How on hearing my Lord of Glandine,
  Thistle-eaters the stoutest gave way,
Outdone in their own special line
  By the forty-ass power of his bray!

But, no--for so humble a bard
  'Tis a subject too trying to touch on;
Such noblemen's names are too hard,
  And their noddles too soft to dwell much on.

Oh Echo, sweet nymph of the hill,
  Of the dell and the deep-sounding shelves;
If in spite of Narcissus you still
  Take to fools who are charmed with themselves,

Who knows but, some morning retiring,
  To walk by the Trent's wooded side,
You may meet with Newcastle, admiring
  His own lengthened ears in the tide!

Or, on into Cambria straying,
  Find Kenyon, that double tongued elf,
In his love of _ass_-cendency, braying
  A Brunswick duet with himself!


[1] "Let us from Clubs."

[2] Commonly called "Paddy Blake's Echoes".

[3] Anti-Catholic associations, under the title of Brunswick Clubs, were
at this time becoming numerous both in England and Ireland.






INCANTATION.

FROM THE NEW TRAGEDY OF "THE BRUNSWICKERS."


SCENE.--_Penenden Plain. In the middle, a caldron boiling. Thunder.--
Enter three Brunswickers_.

  _1st Bruns_.--Thrice hath scribbling Kenyon scrawled,

  _2d Bruns_.--Once hath fool Newcastle bawled,

  _3d Bruns_.--Bexley snores:--'tis time, 'tis time,

  _1st Bruns_.--Round about the caldron go;
In the poisonous nonsense throw.
Bigot spite that long hath grown
Like a toad within a stone,
Sweltering in the heart of Scott,
Boil we in the Brunswick pot.

  _All_.--Dribble, dribble, nonsense dribble,
Eldon, talk, and Kenyon, scribble.

  _2d Bruns_.--Slaver from Newcastle's quill
In the noisome mess distil,
Brimming high our Brunswick broth
Both with venom and with froth.
Mix the brains (tho' apt to hash ill,
Being scant) of Lord Mountcashel,
With that malty stuff which Chandos
Drivels as no other man does.
Catch (_i. e._ if catch you can)
One idea, spick and span,
From my Lord of Salisbury,--
One idea, tho' it be
Smaller than the "happy flea"
Which his sire in sonnet terse
Wedded to immortal verse.[1]
Tho' to rob the son is sin,
Put his _one_ idea in;
And, to keep it company,
Let that conjuror Winchelsea
Drop but _half_ another there,
If he hath so much to spare.
Dreams of murders and of arsons,
Hatched in heads of Irish parsons,
Bring from every hole and corner,
Where ferocious priests like Horner
Purely for religious good
Cry aloud for Papist's blood,
Blood for Wells, and such old women,
At their ease to wade and swim in.

  _All_.--Dribble, dribble, nonsense dribble,
Bexley, talk, and Kenyon, scribble.

  _3d Bruns_.--Now the charm begin to brew;
Sisters, sisters, add thereto
Scraps of Lethbridge's old speeches,
Mixt with leather from his breeches,
Rinsings of old Bexley's brains,
Thickened (if you'll take the pains)
With that pulp which rags create,
In their middle _nympha_ state,
Ere, like insects frail and sunny,
Forth they wing abroad as money.
There--the Hell-broth we've enchanted--
Now but _one_ thing more is wanted.
Squeeze o'er all that Orange juice,
Castlereagh keeps corkt for use,
Which, to work the better spell, is
Colored deep with blood of ----,
Blood, of powers far more various,
Even than that of Januarius,
Since so great a charm hangs o'er it,
England's parsons bow before it,
  _All_.--Dribble, dribble, nonsense dribble,
Bexley, talk, and Kenyon, scribble.
  _2d Bruns_.--Cool it now with ----'s blood,
So the charm is firm and good.
 [_exeunt_.


[1] Alluding to a well-known lyric composition of the late Marquis, which,
with a slight alteration, might be addressed either to a flea or a fly.






HOW TO MAKE A GOOD POLITICIAN.


Whene'er you're in doubt, said a Sage I once knew,
'Twixt two lines of conduct _which_ course to pursue,
Ask a woman's advice, and, whate'er she advise,
Do the very reverse and you're sure to be wise.

Of the same use as guides the Brunswicker throng;
In their thoughts, words and deeds, so instinctively wrong,
That whatever they counsel, act, talk or indite,
Take the opposite course and you're sure to be right.

So golden this rule, that, had nature denied you
The use of that finger-post, Reason, to guide you--
Were you even more doltish than any given man is,
More soft than Newcastle, more twaddling than Van is.
I'd stake my repute, on the following conditions,
To make you the soundest of sound politicians.

Place yourself near the skirts of some high-flying Tory--
Some Brunswicker parson, of port-drinking glory,--
Watch well how he dines, during any great Question--
What makes him feel gayly, what spoils his digestion--
And always feel sure that _his_ joy o'er a stew
Portends a clear case of dyspepsia to _you_.
Read him backwards, like Hebrew--whatever he wishes
Or praises, note down as absurd or pernicious.
Like the folks of a weather-house, shifting about,
When he's _out_ be an _In_-when he's _in_ be an _Out_.
Keep him always reversed in your thoughts, night and day,
Like an Irish barometer turned the wrong way:--
If he's _up_ you may swear that foul weather is nigh;
If he's _down_ you may look for a bit of blue sky.
Never mind what debaters or journalists say,
Only ask what _he_ thinks and then think t'other way.
Does he hate the Small-note Bill? then firmly rely
The Small-note Bill's a blessing, tho' _you_ don't know why.
Is Brougham his aversion? then Harry's your man.
Does he quake at O'Connell? take doubly to Dan.
Is he all for the Turks? then at once take the whole
Russian Empire (Tsar, Cossacks and all) to your soul.
In short, whatsoever he talks, thinks or is,
Be your thoughts, words and essence the contrast of his.
Nay, as Siamese ladies--at least the polite ones,--
All paint their teeth black, 'cause the devil has white ones-
If even by the chances of time or of tide
Your Tory for once should have sense on his side,
Even _then_ stand aloof--for be sure that Old Nick
When a Tory talks sensibly, means you some trick.

Such my recipe is--and, in one single verse,
I shall now, in conclusion, its substance rehearse,
Be all that a Brunswicker _is_ not nor _could_ be,
And then--you'll be all that an honest man should be.






EPISTLE OF CONDOLENCE.

FROM A SLAVE-LORD, TO A COTTON-LORD.


Alas! my dear friend, what a state of affairs!
  How unjustly we both are despoiled of our rights!
Not a pound of black flesh shall I leave to my heirs,
  Nor must you any more work to death little whites.

Both forced to submit to that general controller
  Of King, Lords and cotton mills, Public Opinion,
No more shall _you_ beat with a big billy-roller.
  Nor _I_ with the cart-whip assert my dominion.

Whereas, were we suffered to do as we please
  With our Blacks and our Whites, as of yore we were let,
We might range them alternate, like harpsichord keys,
  And between us thump out a good piebald duet.

But this fun is all over;--farewell to the zest
  Which Slavery now lends to each teacup we sip;
Which makes still the cruellest coffee the best,
  And that sugar the sweetest which smacks of the whip.

Farewell too the Factory's white pickaninnies--
  Small, living machines which if flogged to their tasks
Mix so well with their namesakes, the "Billies" and "Jennies,"
  That _which_ have got souls in 'em nobody asks;--

Little Maids of the Mill, who themselves but ill-fed,
  Are obliged, 'mong their other benevolent cares,
To "keep feeding the scribblers,"[1]--and better, 'tis said,
  Than old Blackwood or Fraser have ever fed theirs.

All this is now o'er and so dismal _my_ loss is,
  So hard 'tis to part from the smack of the throng,
That I mean (from pure love for the old whipping process),
  To take to whipt syllabub all my life long.


[1] One of the operations in cotton mills usually performed by children.






THE GHOST OF MILTIADES.


    _ah quoties dubies Scriptis exarsit amator_.
    OVID.


The Ghost of Miltiades came at night,
And he stood by the bed of the Benthamite,
And he said, in a voice that thrilled the frame,
"If ever the sound of Marathon's name
  Hath fired thy blood or flusht thy brow,
"Lover of Liberty, rouse thee now!"

The Benthamite yawning left his bed--
Away to the Stock Exchange he sped,
And he found the Scrip of Greece so high,
That it fired his blood, it flusht his eye,
And oh! 'twas a sight for the Ghost to see,
For never was Greek more Greek than he!
And still as the premium higher went,
His ecstasy rose--so much _per cent_.
(As we see in a glass that tells the weather
The heat and the _silver_ rise together,)
And Liberty sung from the patriot's lip,
While a voice from his pocket whispered "Scrip!"
The Ghost of Miltiades came again;--
He smiled, as the pale moon smiles thro' rain,
For his soul was glad at that patriot strain;
(And poor, dear ghost--how little he knew
The jobs and the tricks of the Philhellene crew!)
"Blessings and thanks!" was all he said,
Then melting away like a night-dream fled!

The Benthamite hears--amazed that ghosts
Could be such fools--and away he posts,
A patriot still? Ah no, ah no--
Goddess of Freedom, thy Scrip is low,
And warm and fond as thy lovers are,
Thou triest their passion, when under _par_,
The Benthamite's ardor fast decays,
By turns he weeps and swears and prays.
And wishes the devil had Crescent and Cross,
Ere _he_ had been forced to sell at a loss.
They quote him the Stock of various nations,
But, spite of his classic associations,
Lord! how he loathes the Greek _quotations_!

"Who'll buy my Scrip? Who'll buy my Scrip?"
Is now the theme of the patriot's lip,
As he runs to tell how hard his lot is
To Messrs. Orlando and Luriottis,
And says, "Oh Greece, for Liberty's sake,
"Do buy my Scrip, and I vow to break
"Those dark, unholy _bonds_ of thine--
"If you'll only consent to buy up _mine_!"
The Ghost of Miltiades came once more;--
His brow like the night was lowering o'er,
And he said, with a look that flasht dismay,
"Of Liberty's foes the worst are they,
"Who turn to a trade her cause divine,
"And gamble for gold on Freedom's shrine!"
Thus saying, the Ghost, as he took his flight,
Gave a Parthian kick to the Benthamite,
Which sent him, whimpering, off to Jerry--
And vanisht away to the Stygian ferry!






ALARMING INTELLIGENCE!

REVOLUTION IN THE DICTIONARY--ONE _GALT_ AT THE HEAD OF IT.


God preserve us!--there's nothing now safe from assault;--
  Thrones toppling around, churches brought to the hammer;
And accounts have just reached us that one Mr. _Galt_
  Has declared open war against English and Grammar!

He had long been suspected of some such design,
  And, the better his wicked intents to arrive at,
Had lately 'mong Colburn's troops of _the line_
  (The penny-a-line men) enlisted as private.

There schooled, with a rabble of words at command,
  Scotch, English and slang in promiscuous alliance.
He at length against Syntax has taken his stand,
  And sets all the Nine Parts of Speech at defiance.

Next advices, no doubt, further facts will afford:
  In the mean time the danger most imminent grows,
He has taken the Life of one eminent Lord,
  And whom he'll _next_ murder the Lord only knows.

_Wednesday evening_.
Since our last, matters, luckily, look more serene;
  Tho' the rebel, 'tis stated, to aid his defection,
Has seized a great Powder--no, Puff Magazine,
  And the explosions are dreadful in every direction.

What his meaning exactly is, nobody knows,
  As he talks (in a strain of intense botheration)
Of lyrical "ichor,"[1] "gelatinous" prose,[2]
  And a mixture called amber immortalization.[3]

_Now_, he raves of a bard he once happened to meet,
Seated high "among rattlings" and churning a sonnet;[4]
_Now_, talks of a mystery, wrapt in a sheet,
  With a halo (by way of a nightcap) upon it![5]

We shudder in tracing these terrible lines;
  Something bad they must mean, tho' we can't make it out;
For whate'er may be guessed of Galt's secret designs,
  That they're all _Anti_-English no Christian can doubt.


[1] "That dark disease ichor which colored her effusions."--GALT'S _Life
of Byron_.

[2] "The gelatinous character of their effusions." _Ibid_.

[3] "The poetical embalmment or rather amber immortalization."--
_Ibid_.

[4] "Sitting amidst the shrouds and rattlings, churning an inarticulate
melody."--_Ibid_.

[5] "He was a mystery in a winding sheet, crowned with a halo."--
_Ibid_.






RESOLUTIONS

PASSED AT A LATE MEETING OF REVERENDS AND RIGHT REVERENDS.


Resolved--to stick to every particle
Of every Creed and every Article;
Reforming naught, or great or little,
We'll stanchly stand by every tittle,
And scorn the swallow of that soul
Which cannot boldly bolt the whole.[1]
Resolved that tho' St. Athanasius
In damning souls is rather spacious--
Tho' wide and far his curses fall,
Our Church "hath stomach for them all;"
And those who're not content with such,
May e'en be damned ten times as much.

Resolved--such liberal souls are we--
Tho' hating Nonconformity,
We yet believe the cash no worse is
That comes from Nonconformist purses.
Indifferent _whence_ the money reaches
The pockets of our reverend breeches,
To us the Jumper's jingling penny
Chinks with a tone as sweet as any;
And even our old friends Yea and Nay
May thro' the nose for ever pray,
If _also_ thro' the nose they'll pay.

Resolved that Hooper,[2] Latimer,[3]
And Cranmer,[4] all extremely err,
In taking such a low-bred view
Of what Lords Spiritual ought to do:--
All owing to the fact, poor men,
That Mother Church was modest then,
Nor knew what golden eggs her goose,
The Public, would in time produce.
One Pisgah peep at modern Durham
To far more lordly thoughts would stir 'em.

Resolved that when we Spiritual Lords
Whose income just enough affords
To keep our Spiritual Lordships cosey,
Are told by Antiquarians prosy
How ancient Bishops cut up theirs,
Giving the poor the largest shares--
Our answer is, in one short word,
We think it pious but absurd.
Those good men made the world their debtor,
But we, the Church reformed, know better;
And taking all that all can pay,
Balance the account the other way.

Resolved our thanks profoundly due are
To last month's Quarterly Reviewer,
Who proves by arguments so clear
(One sees how much he holds _per_ year)
That England's Church, tho' out of date,
Must still be left to lie in state,
As dead, as rotten and as grand as
The mummy of King Osymandyas,
All pickled snug--the brains drawn out--
With costly cerements swathed about,--
And "Touch me not," those words terrific,
Scrawled o'er her in good hieroglyphic.


[1] One of the questions propounded to the Puritans in 1573 was--"Whether
the Book of Service was good and godly, every tittle grounded on the Holy
Scripture?" On which an honest Dissenter remarks--"Surely they had a
wonderful opinion of their Service Book that there was not a _tittle_
amiss, in it."

[2] "They," the Bishops, "know that the primitive Church had no such
Bishops. If the fourth part of the bishopric remained unto the Bishop, it
were sufficient."--_On the Commandments_, p. 72.

[3] "Since the Prelates were made Lords and Nobles, the plough standeth,
there is no work done, the people starve."--_Lat. Serm_.

[4] "Of whom have come all these glorious titles, styles, and pomps into
the Church. But I would that I, and all my brethren, the Bishops, would
leave all our styles, and write the styles of our offices," etc.--_Life
of Cranmer, by Strype, Appendix_.






SIR ANDREW'S DREAM.


    "_nec tu sperne piis venientia somnia portis:
    cum pia venerunt somnia, pondus liubent_."
    PROPERT. _lib. iv. eleg_. 7.


As snug, on a Sunday eve, of late,
In his easy chair Sir Andrew sate,
Being much too pious, as every one knows,
To do aught, of a Sunday eve, but doze,
He dreamt a dream, dear, holy man,
And I'll tell you his dream as well as I can.
He found himself, to his great amaze,
In Charles the First's high Tory days,
And just at the time that gravest of Courts
Had publisht its Book of Sunday Sports.[1]

_Sunday_ Sports! what a thing for the ear
Of Andrew even in sleep to hear!--
It chanced to be too a Sabbath day
When the people from church were coming away;
And Andrew with horror heard this song.
As the smiling sinners flockt along;--
"Long life to the Bishops, hurrah! hurrah!
"For a week of work and a Sunday of play
"Make the poor man's life run merry away."

"The Bishops!" quoth Andrew, "Popish, I guess,"
And he grinned with conscious holiness.
But the song went on, and, to brim the cup
Of poor Andy's grief, the fiddles struck up!

"Come, take out the lasses--let's have a dance--
  "For the Bishops allow us to skip our fill,
"Well knowing that no one's the more in advance
  "On the road to heaven, for standing still.
"Oh! it never was meant that grim grimaces
  "Should sour the cream of a creed of love;
"Or that fellows with long, disastrous faces,
  "Alone should sit among cherubs above.
    "Then hurrah for the Bishops, etc.

"For Sunday fun we never can fail,
  "When the Church herself each sport points out;--
"There's May-games, archery, Whitsun-ale,
  "And a May-pole high to dance about.
"Or should we be for a pole hard driven,
  "Some lengthy saint of aspect fell,
"With his pockets on earth and his nose in heaven,
  "Will do for a May-pole just as well.
"Then hurrah for the Bishops, hurrah! hurrah!
"A week of work and a Sabbath of play
"Make the poor man's life run merry away."

To Andy, who doesn't much deal in history,
This Sunday scene was a downright mystery;
And God knows where might have ended the joke,
But, in trying to stop the fiddles, he woke,
And the odd thing is (as the rumor goes)
That since that dream--which, one would suppose,
Should have made his godly stomach rise.
Even more than ever 'gainst Sunday pies--
He has viewed things quite with different eyes;
Is beginning to take, on matters divine,
Like Charles and his Bishops, the _sporting_ line--
Is all for Christians jigging in pairs,
As an interlude 'twixt Sunday prayers:--
Nay, talks of getting Archbishop Howley
To bring in a Bill enacting duly
That all good Protestants from this date
May freely and lawfully recreate,
Of a Sunday eve, their spirits moody,
With Jack in the Straw or Punch and Judy.


[1] _The Book of Sports_ drawn up by Bishop Moreton was first put forth in
the reign of James I., 1618, and afterwards republished, at the advice of
Laud, by Charles I., 1633, with an injunction that it should be "made
public by order from the Bishops." We find it therein declared, that "for
his good people's recreation, his Majesty's pleasure was, that after the
end of divine service they should not be disturbed, letted, or discouraged
from any lawful recreations, such as dancing, either of men or women,
archery for men, leaping, vaulting, or any such harmless recreations, nor
having of May-games, Whitsun-ales, or Morris-dances, or setting up of May
poles, or other sports therewith used." etc.






A BLUE LOVE SONG.

TO MISS-----.


Air-"_Come live with me and be my love_."


Come wed with me and we will write,
My Blue of Blues, from morn till night.
Chased from our classic souls shall be
All thoughts of vulgar progeny;
And thou shalt walk through smiling rows
Of chubby duodecimos,
While I, to match thy products nearly,
Shall lie-in of a quarto yearly.
'Tis true, even books entail some trouble;
But _live_ productions give one double.

Correcting children is _such_ bother,--
While printers' devils correct the other.
Just think, my own Malthusian dear,
How much more decent 'tis to hear
From male or female--as it may be--
"How is your book?" than "How's your baby?"
And whereas physic and wet nurses
Do much exhaust paternal purses,
Our books if rickety may go
And be well dry-nurst in _the Row_;
And when God wills to take them hence,
Are buried at _the Row's_ expense.

Besides, (as 'tis well proved by thee,
In thy own Works, vol. 93.)
The march, just now, of population
So much outscrips all moderation,
That even prolific herring-shoals
Keep pace not with our erring souls.[1]
Oh far more proper and well-bred
To stick to writing books instead;
And show the world how two Blue lovers
Can coalesce, like two book-covers,
(Sheep-skin, or calf, or such wise leather,)
Lettered at back and stitched together
Fondly as first the binder fixt 'em,
With naught but--literature betwixt 'em.


[1] See "Ella of Garveloch."--Garveloch being a place where there
was a large herring-fishery, but where, as we are told by the author, "the
people increased much faster than the produce."






SUNDAY ETHICS.

A SCOTCH ODE.


Puir, profligate Londoners, having heard tell
  That the De'il's got amang ye, and fearing 'tis true,
We ha' sent ye a mon wha's a match for his spell,
A chiel o' our ain, that the De'il himsel
  Will be glad to keep clear of, ane Andrew Agnew.

So at least ye may reckon for one day entire
  In ilka lang week ye'll be tranquil eneugh,
As Auld Nick, do him justice, abhors a Scotch squire,
An' would sooner gae roast by his ain kitchen fire
  Than pass a hale Sunday wi' Andrew Agnew.

For, bless the gude mon, gin he had his ain way,
  He'd na let a cat on the Sabbath say "mew;"
Nae birdie maun whistle, nae lambie maun play,
An Phoebus himsel could na travel that day.
  As he'd find a new Joshua in Andie Agnew.

Only hear, in your Senate, how awfu' he cries,
  "Wae, wae to a' sinners who boil an' who stew!
"Wae, wae to a' eaters o' Sabbath baked pies,
"For as surely again shall the crust thereof rise
  "In judgment against ye," saith Andrew Agnew!

Ye may think, from a' this, that our Andie's the lad
  To ca' o'er the coals your nobeelity too;
That their drives, o' a Sunday, wi' flunkies,[1] a' clad
Like Shawmen, behind 'em, would mak the mon mad--
  But he's nae sic a noodle, our Andie Agnew.

If Lairds an' fine Ladies, on Sunday, think right
  To gang to the deevil--as maist o' 'em do--
To stop them our Andie would think na polite;
And 'tis odds (if the chiel could get onything by't)
  But he'd follow 'em, booing, would Andrew Agnew.


[1] Servants in livery.






AWFUL EVENT.


Yes, Winchelsea (I tremble while I pen it),
Winehelsea's Earl hath _cut_ the British Senate--
Hath said to England's Peers, in accent gruff,
  "_That_ for ye all"[snapping his fingers] and exit in a huff!

Disastrous news!--like that of old which spread,
From shore to shore, "our mighty Pan is dead,"
O'er the cross benches (cross from _being_ crost)
Sounds the loud wail, "Our Winchelsea is lost!"

Which of ye, Lords, that heard him can forget
The deep impression of that awful threat,
"I quit your house!!"--midst all that histories tell,
I know but _one_ event that's parallel:--

It chanced at Drury Lane, one Easter night,
When the gay gods too blest to be polite
Gods at their ease, like those of learned Lucretius,
Laught, whistled, groaned, uproariously facetious--
A well-drest member of the middle gallery,
Whose "ears polite" disdained such low canaillerie,
Rose in his place--so grand, you'd almost swear
Lord Winchelsea himself stood towering there--
And like that Lord of dignity and _nous_,
Said, "Silence, fellows, or--I'll leave the house!!"

How brookt the gods this speech? Ah well-a-day,
That speech so fine should be so thrown away!
In vain did this mid-gallery grandee
Assert his own two-shilling dignity--
In vain he menaced to withdraw the ray
Of his own full-price countenance away--
Fun against Dignity is fearful odds,
And as the Lords laugh _now_, so giggled _then_ the gods!






THE NUMBERING OF THE CLERGY.

PARODY ON SIR CHARLES HAN. WILLIAMS'S FAMOUS ODE,
"COME, CLOE, and GIVE ME SWEET KISSES."


    "We want more Churches and more Clergymen."
    _Bishop of London's late Charge_.


    _"rectorum numerum, terris pereuntibus augent."
    Claudian in Eutrop_.


Come, give us more Livings and Rectors,
  For, richer no realm ever gave;
But why, ye unchristian objectors,
  Do ye ask us how many we crave?[1]

Oh there can't be too many rich Livings
  For souls of the Pluralist kind,
Who, despising old Crocker's misgivings,
  To numbers can ne'er be confined.[2]

Count the cormorants hovering about,[3]
  At the time their fish season sets in,
When these models of keen diners-out
  Are preparing their beaks to begin.

Count the rooks that, in clerical dresses,
  Flock round when the harvest's in play,
And not minding the farmer's distresses,
  Like devils in grain peck away.

Go, number the locusts in heaven,[4]
  On the way to some titheable shore;
And when so many Parsons you've given,
  We still shall be craving for more.

Then, unless ye the Church would submerge, ye
  Must leave us in peace to augment.
For the wretch who could number the Clergy,
  With few will be ever content.


[1]
Come, Cloe, and give me sweet kisses,
  For sweeter sure never girl gave;
But why, in the midst of my blisses,
  Do you ask me how many I'd have?

[2]
For whilst I love thee above measure,
To numbers I'll ne'er be confined.

[3]
Count the bees that on Hybla are playing,
  Count the flowers that enamel its fields,
Count the flocks, etc.

[4]
Go number the stars in the heaven,
  Count how many sands on the shore,
When so many kisses you've given,
  I still shall be craving for more.






A SAD CASE.


    "If it be the undergraduate season at which this _rabies
    religiosa_ is to be so fearful, what security has Mr. Goulburn
    against it at this moment, when his son is actually exposed to the
    full venom of an association with Dissenters?"
    --_The Times_, March 25.


How sad a case!--just think of it--
If Goulburn junior should be bit
By some insane Dissenter, roaming
Thro' Granta's halls, at large and foaming,
And with that aspect _ultra_ crabbed
Which marks Dissenters when they're rabid!
God only knows what mischiefs might
Result from this one single bite,
Or how the venom, once suckt in,
Might spread and rage thro' kith and kin.
Mad folks of all denominations
First turn upon their own relations:
So that _one_ Goulburn, fairly bit,
Might end in maddening the whole kit,
Till ah! ye gods! we'd have to rue
Our Goulburn senior bitten too;
The Hychurchphobia in those veins,
Where Tory blood now redly reigns;--
And that dear man who now perceives
Salvation only in lawn sleeves,
Might, tainted by such coarse infection,
Run mad in the opposite direction.
And think, poor man, 'tis only given
To linsey-woolsey to reach Heaven!

Just fancy what a shock 'twould be
Our Goulburn in his fits to see,
Tearing into a thousand particles
His once-loved Nine and Thirty Articles;
(Those Articles his friend, the Duke,[1]
For Gospel, t'other night, mistook;)
Cursing cathedrals, deans and singers--
Wishing the ropes might hang the ringers--
Pelting the church with blasphemies,
Even worse than Parson Beverley's;--
And ripe for severing Church and State,
Like any creedless reprobate,
Or like that class of Methodists
Prince Waterloo styles "Atheists!"

But 'tis too much--the Muse turns pale,
And o'er the picture drops a veil,
Praying, God save the Goulburns all
From mad Dissenters great and small!


[1] The Duke of Wellington, who styled them "the Articles of
Christianity."






A DREAM OF HINDOSTAN.


    --risum _tenaetis, amici_


"The longer one lives, the more one learns,"
  Said I, as off to sleep I went,
Bemused with thinking of Tithe concerns,
And reading a book by the Bishop of FERNS,[1]
  On the Irish Church Establishment.
But lo! in sleep not long I lay,
  When Fancy her usual tricks began,
And I found myself bewitched away
  To a goodly city in Hindostan--
A city where he who dares to dine
  On aught but rice is deemed a sinner;
Where sheep and kine are held divine,
  And accordingly--never drest for dinner.

"But how is this?" I wondering cried--
As I walkt that city fair and wide,
And saw, in every marble street,
  A row of beautiful butchers' shops--
"What means, for men who don't eat meat,
  "This grand display of loins and chops?"
In vain I askt--'twas plain to see
That nobody dared to answer me.

So on from street to street I strode:
And you can't conceive how vastly odd
  The butchers lookt--a roseate crew,
Inshrined in _stalls_ with naught to do;
While some on a _bench_, half dozing, sat,
And the Sacred Cows were not more fat.
Still posed to think what all this scene
Of sinecure trade was _meant_ to mean,
"And, pray," askt I--"by whom is paid
The expense of this strange masquerade?"--
"The expense!--oh! that's of course defrayed
(Said one of these well-fed Hecatombers)
"By yonder rascally rice-consumers."
"What! _they_ who mustn't eat meat!"--
    No matter--
(And while he spoke his cheeks grew fatter,)
"The rogues may munch their _Paddy_ crop,
"But the rogues must still support _our_ shop,
"And depend upon it, the way to treat
  "Heretical stomachs that thus dissent,
"Is to burden all that won't eat meat,
  "With a costly MEAT ESTABLISHMENT."

On hearing these words so gravely said,
  With a volley of laughter loud I shook,
And my slumber fled and my dream was sped,
And I found I was lying snug in bed,
  With my nose in the Bishop of FERNS'S book.


[1] An indefatigable scribbler of anti-Catholic pamphlets.




THE BRUNSWICK CLUB.


A letter having been addressed to a very distinguished personage,
requesting him to become the Patron of this Orange Club, a polite answer
was forthwith returned, of which we have been fortunate enough to obtain a
copy.


_Brimstone-hall, September 1, 1828_.

_Private_,--Lord Belzebub presents
To the Brunswick Club his compliments.
And much regrets to say that he
Can not at present their Patron be.
In stating this, Lord Belzebub
Assures on his honor the Brunswick Club,
That 'tisn't from any lukewarm lack
Of zeal or fire he thus holds back--
As even Lord _Coal_ himself is not[1]
For the Orange party more red-hot:
But the truth is, still their Club affords
A somewhat decenter show of Lords,
And on its list of members gets
A few less rubbishy Baronets,
Lord Belzebub must beg to be
Excused from keeping such company.

Who the devil, he humbly begs to know,
Are Lord Glandine, and Lord Dunlo?
Or who, with a grain of sense, would go
To sit and be bored by Lord Mayo?
What living creature--_except his nurse_--
For Lord Mountcashel cares a curse,
Or think 'twould matter if Lord Muskerry
Were 'tother side of the Stygian ferry?
Breathes there a man in Dublin town,
Who'd give but half of half-a-crown
To save from drowning my Lord Rathdowne,
Or who wouldn't also gladly hustle in
Lords Roden, Bandon, Cole and Jocelyn?
In short, tho' from his tenderest years,
Accustomed to all sorts of Peers,
Lord Belzebub much questions whether
He ever yet saw mixt together
As 'twere in one capacious tub.
Such a mess of noble silly-bub
As the twenty Peers of the Brunswick Club.
'Tis therefore impossible that Lord B.
Could stoop to such society,
Thinking, he owns (tho' no great prig),
For one in his station 'twere _infra dig_.
But he begs to propose, in the interim
(Till they find some properer Peers for him),
His Highness of Cumberland, as _Sub_
To take his place at the Brunswick Club--
Begging, meanwhile, himself to dub
Their obedient servant,
  BELZEBUB.

It luckily happens, the Royal Duke
Resembles so much, in air and look,
The head of the Belzebub family,
That few can any difference see;
Which makes him of course the better suit
To serve as Lord B.'s substitute.


[1] Usually written Cole.






PROPOSALS FOR A GYNAECOCRACY.

ADDRESSED TO A LATE RADICAL MEETING.


    --"_quas ipsa decus sibi dia Camilla
    delegit pacisque bonas bellique ministras_."
    VERGIL.


As Whig Reform has had its range,
  And none of us are yet content,
Suppose, my friends, by way of change,
  We try a _Female Parliament_;
And since of late with _he_ M.P.'s
We've fared so badly, take to she's--
Petticoat patriots, flounced John Russells,
Burdetts in _blonde_ and Broughams in _bustles_.

The plan is startling, I confess--
But 'tis but an affair of dress;
Nor see I much there is to choose
  'Twixt Ladies (so they're thorough-bred ones)
In ribands of all sorts of hues,
  Or Lords in only blue or red ones.

At least the fiddlers will be winners,
  Whatever other trade advances
As then, instead of Cabinet dinners
  We'll have, at Almack's, Cabinet dances;
Nor let this world's important questions
Depend on Ministers' digestions.

If Ude's receipts have done things ill,
  To Weippert's band they may go better;
There's Lady **, in one quadrille,
  Would settle Europe, if you'd let her:
And who the deuce or asks or cares
  When Whigs or Tories have undone 'em,
Whether they've _danced_ thro' State affairs,
  Or simply, dully, _dined_ upon 'em?

Hurrah then for the Petticoats!
To them we pledge our free-born votes;
We'll have all _she_, and only _she_--
  Pert blues shall act as "best debaters,"
Old dowagers our Bishops be,
  And termagants our agitators.
If Vestris to oblige the nation
  Her own Olympus will abandon
And help to prop the Administration,
  It _can't_ have better legs to stand on.
The famed Macaulay (Miss) shall show
  Each evening, forth in learned oration;
Shall move (midst general cries of "Oh!")
  For full returns of population:
And finally to crown the whole,
The Princess Olive, Royal soul,[1]
Shall from her bower in Banco Regis,
Descend to bless her faithful lieges,
And mid our Union's loyal chorus
Reign jollily for ever o'er us.


[1] A personage so styled herself who attained considerable notoriety at
that period.






TO THE EDITOR OF THE * * *.


Sir,

Having heard some rumors respecting the strange and awful visitation under
which Lord Henley has for some time past been suffering, in consequence of
his declared hostility to "anthems, solos, duets,"[1] etc., I took the
liberty of making inquiries at his Lordship's house this morning and lose
no time in transmitting to you such particulars as I could collect. It is
said that the screams of his Lordship, under the operation of this nightly
concert, (which is no doubt some trick of the Radicals), may be heard all
over the neighborhood. The female who personates St. Cecilia is supposed
to be the same that last year appeared in the character of Isis at the
Rotunda. How the cherubs are managed, I have not yet ascertained.

Yours, etc.

P. P.

[1] In a work, on Church Reform, published by his Lordship in 1832.






LORD HENLEY AND ST. CECILIA


    --_in Metii decenaat Judicis aures_.
    HORAT.


As snug in his bed Lord Henley lay,
  Revolving much his own renown,
And hoping to add thereto a ray
  By putting duets and anthems down,

Sudden a strain of choral sounds
  Mellifluous o'er his senses stole;
Whereat the Reformer muttered "Zounds!"
  For he loathed sweet music with all his soul.

Then starting up he saw a sight
  That well might shock so learned a snorer--
Saint Cecilia robed in light
  With a portable organ slung before her.

And round were Cherubs on rainbow wings,
  Who, his Lordship feared, might tire of flitting,
So begged they'd sit--but ah! poor things,
  They'd, none of them, got the means of sitting.

"Having heard," said the Saint, "you're fond of hymns,
  "And indeed that musical snore betrayed you,
"Myself and my choir of cherubims
  "Are come for a while to serenade you."

In vain did the horrified Henley say
  "'Twas all a mistake--she was misdirected;"
And point to a concert over the way
  Where fiddlers and angels were expected.

In vain--the Saint could see in his looks
  (She civilly said) much tuneful lore;
So at once all opened their music-books,
  And herself and her Cherubs set off at score.

All night duets, terzets, quartets,
  Nay, long quintets most dire to hear;
Ay, and old motets and canzonets
  And glees in sets kept boring his ear.

He tried to sleep--but it wouldn't do;
  So loud they squalled, he _must_ attend to 'em.
Tho' Cherubs' songs to his cost he knew
  Were like themselves and had no end to 'em.

Oh judgment dire on judges bold,
  Who meddle with music's sacred strains!
Judge Midas tried the same of old
  And was punisht like Henley for his pains.

But worse on the modern judge, alas!
  Is the sentence launched from Apollo's throne;
For Midas was given the ears of an ass,
  While Henley is doomed to keep his own!






ADVERTISEMENT.[1]

1830.


Missing or lost, last Sunday night,
  A Waterloo coin whereon was traced
The inscription, "Courage!" in letters bright,
  Tho' a little by rust of years defaced.

The metal thereof is rough and hard,
  And ('tis thought of late) mixt up with brass;
But it bears the stamp of Fame's award,
  And thro' all Posterity's hands will pass.

_How_ it was lost God only knows,
  But certain _City_ thieves, they say,
Broke in on the owner's evening doze,
  And filched this "gift of gods" away!

One ne'er could, of course, the Cits suspect,
  If we hadn't that evening chanced to see,
At the robbed man's door a _Mare_ elect
  With an ass to keep her company.

Whosoe'er of this lost treasure knows,
  Is begged to state all facts about it,
As the owner can't well face his foes,
  Nor even his friends just now without it.

And if Sir Clod will bring it back,
  Like a trusty Baronet, wise and able,
He shall have a ride on the whitest hack[2]
  That's left in old King George's stable.


[1] Written at that memorable crisis when a distinguished duke, then Prime
Minister, acting under the inspirations of Sir Claudius Hunter, and other
City worthies, advised his Majesty to give up his announced intention of
dining with the Lord Mayor.

[2] Among other remarkable attributes by which Sir Claudius distinguished
himself, the dazzling whiteness of his favorite steed vas not the least
conspicuous.






MISSING.

Carlton Terrace, 1832.


Whereas, Lord ---- de ----
Left his home last Saturday,
And, tho' inquired for round and round
Thro' certain purlieus, can't be found;
And whereas, none can solve our queries
As to where this virtuous Peer is,
Notice is hereby given that all
May forthwith to inquiring fall,
As, once the thing's well set about,
No doubt but we shall hunt him out.

His Lordship's mind, of late, they say,
Hath been in an uneasy way,
Himself and colleagues not being let
To climb into the Cabinet,
To settle England's state affairs,
Hath much, it seems, _un_settled theirs;
And chief to this stray Plenipo
Hath been a most distressing blow.
Already,-certain to receive a
Well-paid mission to the Neva,
And be the bearer of kind words
To tyrant Nick from Tory Lords,-
To fit himself for free discussion,
His Lordship had been learning Russian;
And all so natural to him were
The accents of the Northern bear,
That while his tones were in your ear, you
Might swear you were in sweet Siberia.
And still, poor Peer, to old and young,
He goes on raving in that tongue;
Tells you how much you would enjoy a
Trip to Dalnodubrovrkoya;[1]
Talks of such places by the score on
As Oulisflirmchinagoboron,[2]
And swears (for he at nothing sticks)
That Russia swarms with Raskolniks,
Tho' _one_ such Nick, God knows, must be
A more than ample quantity.

Such are the marks by which to know
This strayed or stolen Plenipo;
And whosoever brings or sends
The unhappy statesman to his friends
On Carlton Terrace, shall have thanks,
And--any paper but the Bank's.

P.S.--Some think the disappearance
Of this our diplomatic Peer hence
Is for the purpose of reviewing,
_In person_, what dear Mig is doing,
So as to 'scape all tell-tale letters
'Bout Beresford, and such abetters,--
The only "wretches" for whose aid[3]
Letters seem _not_ to have been made.


[1] In the Government of Perm.

[2] Territory belonging to the mines of Kolivano-Kosskressense.

[3] "Heaven first taught letters for some wretch's aid." POPE.






THE DANCE OF BISHOPS;

OR, THE EPISCOPAL QUADRILLE.[1]

A DREAM.

1833.


    "Solemn dances were, on great festivals and celebrations, admitted
    among the primitive Christians, in which even the Bishops and
    dignified Clergy were performers. Scaliger says, that the first
    Bishops were called _praesules_[2] for other reason than that
    they led off these dances."--"_Cyclopaedia_," art. _Dances_.


I've had such a dream--a frightful dream--
Tho' funny mayhap to wags 'twill seem,
By all who regard the Church, like us,
'Twill be thought exceedingly ominous!

As reading in bed I lay last night--
Which (being insured) is my delight--
I happened to doze off just as I got to
The singular fact which forms my motto.
Only think, thought I, as I dozed away,
Of a party of Churchmen dancing the hay!
Clerks, curates and rectors capering all
With a neat-legged Bishop to open the ball!
Scarce had my eyelids time to close,
When the scene I had fancied before me rose--
An Episcopal Hop on a scale so grand
As my dazzled eyes could hardly stand.
For Britain and Erin clubbed their Sees
To make it a Dance of Dignities,
And I saw--oh brightest of Church events!
A quadrille of the two Establishments,
Bishop to Bishop _vis-a-vis_,
Footing away prodigiously.

There was Bristol capering up to Derry,
And Cork with London making merry;
While huge Llandaff, with a See, so so,
Was to dear old Dublin pointing his toe.
There was Chester, hatched by woman's smile,
Performing a _chaine des Dames_ in style;
While he who, whene'er the Lords' House dozes,
Can waken them up by citing Moses,[3]
The portly Tuam, was all in a hurry
To set, _en avant_, to Canterbury.

Meantime, while pamphlets stuft his pockets,
(All out of date like spent skyrockets,)
Our Exeter stood forth to caper,
As high on the floor as he doth on paper--
like a dapper Dancing Dervise,
Who pirouettes his whole church-service--
Performing, midst those reverend souls,
Such _entrechats_, such _cabrioles_,
Such _balonnes_, such--rigmaroles,
Now high, now low, now this, that,
That none could guess what the devil he'd be at;
Tho', watching his various steps, some thought
That a step in the Church was all he sought.

But alas, alas! while thus so gay.
These reverend dancers friskt away,
Nor Paul himself (not the saint, but he
Of the Opera-house) could brisker be,
There gathered a gloom around their glee--
A shadow which came and went so fast,
That ere one could say "'Tis there," 'twas past--
And, lo! when the scene again was cleared,
Ten of the dancers had disappeared!
Ten able-bodied quadrillers swept
From the hallowed floor where late they stept,
While twelve was all that footed it still,
On the Irish side of that grand Quadrille!

Nor this the worst:--still danced they on,
But the pomp was saddened, the smile was gone;
And again from time to time the same
Ill-omened darkness round them came--
While still as the light broke out anew,
Their ranks lookt less by a dozen or two;
Till ah! at last there were only found
Just Bishops enough for a four-hands-round;
And when I awoke, impatient getting,
I left the last holy pair _poussetting_!

N.B.--As ladies in years, it seems,
Have the happiest knack at solving dreams,
I shall leave to my ancient feminine friends
Of the _Standard_ to say what _this_ portends.


[1] Written on the passing of the memorable Bill, in the year 1833, for
the abolition of ten Irish Bishoprics.

[2] Literally, First Dancers.

[3] "And what does Moses say?"--One of the ejaculations with which this
eminent prelate enlivened his famous speech on the Catholic question.






DICK * * * *

A CHARACTER.


Of various scraps and fragments built,
  Borrowed alike from fools and wits,
Dick's mind was like a patchwork quilt,
  Made up of new, old, motley bits--
Where, if the _Co_. called in their shares,
  If petticoats their quota got
And gowns were all refunded theirs,
  The quilt would look but shy, God wot.

And thus he still, new plagiaries seeking,
  Reversed ventriloquism's trick,
For, 'stead of Dick thro' others speaking,
  'Twas others we heard speak thro' Dick.
A Tory now, all bounds exceeding,
  Now best of Whigs, now worst of rats;
One day with Malthus, foe to breeding,
  The next with Sadler, all for brats.

Poor Dick!--and how else could it be?
  With notions all at random caught,
A sort of mental fricassee,
  Made up of legs and wings of thought--
The leavings of the last Debate, or
  A dinner, yesterday, of wits,
Where Dick sate by and, like a waiter,
  Had the scraps for perquisites.






A CORRECTED REPORT OF SOME LATE SPEECHES.

1834.


    "Then I heard one saint speaking, and
    another saint said unto that saint,"


St. Sinclair rose and declared in smooth,
That he wouldn't give sixpence to Maynooth.
He had hated priests the whole of his life,
For a priest was a man who had no wife,[1]
And, having no wife, the Church was his mother,
The Church was his father, sister and brother.
This being the case, he was sorry to say
That a gulf 'twixt Papist and Protestant lay,[2]
So deep and wide, scarce possible was it
To say even "how d' ye do?" across it:
And tho' your Liberals, nimble as fleas,
Could clear such gulfs with perfect ease,
'Twas a jump that naught on earth could make
Your proper, heavy-built Christian take.
No, no,--if a Dance of Sects _must_ be,
He would set to the Baptist willingly,[3]
At the Independent deign to smirk,
And rigadoon with old Mother Kirk;
Nay even, for once, if needs must be,
He'd take hands round with all the three;
But as to a jig with Popery, no,--
To the Harlot ne'er would he point his toe.

St. Mandeville was the next that rose,--
A saint who round as pedler goes
With his pack of piety and prose,
Heavy and hot enough, God knows,--
And he said that Papists were much inclined
To extirpate all of Protestant kind,
Which he couldn't in truth so much condemn,
Having rather a wish to extirpate _them_;
That is,--to guard against mistake,--
To extirpate them for their doctrine's sake;
A distinction Churchman always make,--
Insomuch that when they've prime control,
Tho' sometimes roasting heretics whole,
They but cook the body for sake of the soul.

Next jumpt St. Johnston jollily forth,
The spiritual Dogberry of the North,[4]
A right "wise fellow, and what's more,
An officer," like his type of yore;
And he asked if we grant such toleration,
Pray, what's the use of our Reformation?
What is the use of our Church and State?
Our Bishops, Articles, Tithe and Rate?
And still as he yelled out "what's the use?"
Old Echoes, from their cells recluse
Where they'd for centuries slept, broke loose,
Yelling responsive, "_What's the use_?"


[1] "He objected to the maintenance and education of clergy _bound by
the particular vows of celibacy, which as it were gave them the Church as
their only family, making it fill the places of father and mother and
brother_."--Debate on the Grant to Maynooth College, _The Times_,
April 19.

[2] "It had always appeared to him that _between the Catholic and
Protestant a great gulf_ intervened, with rendered it impossible," etc.

[3] The Baptist might acceptably extend the offices of religion to the
Presbyterian and the Independent, or the member of the Church of England
to any of the other three; but the Catholic," etc.

[4] "Could he then, holding as he did a spiritual office in the Church of
Scotland, (cries of hear, and laughter,) with any consistency give his
consent to a grant of money?" etc.






MORAL POSITIONS.

A DREAM.


    "His Lordship said that it took a long time for a moral position to
    find its way across the Atlantic. He was very sorry that its voyage
    had been so long," etc.--Speech of Lord Dudley and Ward on Colonial
    Slavery, March 8.


T'other night, after hearing Lord Dudley's oration
  (A treat that comes once a year as May-day does),
I dreamt that I saw--what a strange operation!
A "moral position" shipt off for Barbadoes.

The whole Bench of Bishops stood by in grave attitudes,
  Packing the article tidy and neat;--
As their Reverences know that in southerly latitudes
  "Moral positions" don't keep very sweet.

There was Bathurst arranging the custom-house pass;
  And to guard the frail package from tousing and routing,
There stood my Lord Eldon, endorsing it "Glass,"
  Tho' as to which side should lie uppermost, doubting.
The freight was however stowed safe in the hold;
  The winds were polite and the moon lookt romantic,
While off in the good ship "The Truth" we were rolled,
  With our ethical cargo, across the Atlantic.
Long, dolefully long, seemed the voyage we made;
  For "The Truth," at all times but a very slow sailer,
By friends, near as much as by foes, is delayed,
  And few come aboard her tho' so many hail her.

At length, safe arrived, I went thro' "tare and tret,"
  Delivered my goods in the primest condition.
And next morning read in the _Bridge-town Gazette_,
  "Just arrived by 'The Truth,' a new moral position.

"The Captain"--here, startled to find myself named
  As "the Captain"--(a thing which, I own it with pain,
I thro' life have avoided,) I woke--lookt ashamed,
  Found I _wasn't_ a captain and dozed off again.






THE MAD TORY AND THE COMET.

FOUNDED ON A LATE DISTRESSING INCIDENT.

1832-3.


    _'mutantem regna cometem."_
    LUCAN.[1]


"Tho' all the pet mischiefs we count upon fail,
  "Tho' Cholera, hurricanes, Wellington leave us,
"We've still in reserve, mighty Comet, thy tail;--
  "Last hope" of the Tories, wilt thou too deceive us?

"No--'tis coming, 'tis coming, the avenger is nigh;
  "Heed, heed not, ye placemen, how Herapath flatters;
"One whisk from that tail as it passes us by
  "Will settle at once all political matters;--

"The East-India Question, the Bank, the Five Powers,
  "(Now turned into two) with their rigmarole Protocols;--
"Ha! ha! ye gods, how this new friend of ours
  "Will knock, right and left, all diplomacy's what-d'ye-calls!

"Yes, rather than Whigs at our downfall should mock,
  "Meet planets and suns in one general hustle!
"While happy in vengeance we welcome the shock
  "That shall jerk from their places, Grey, Althorp and Russell."

Thus spoke a mad Lord, as, with telescope raised,
  His wild Tory eye on the heavens he set:
And tho' nothing destructive appeared as he gazed,
  Much hoped that there _would_ before Parliament met.

And still, as odd shapes seemed to flit thro' his glass,
  "Ha! there it is now," the poor maniac cries;
While his fancy with forms but too monstrous, alas!
  From his own Tory zodiac peoples the skies:--

"Now I spy a big body, good heavens, how big!
  "Whether Bucky[2] or Taurus I cannot well say:--
"And yonder there's Eldon's old Chancery wig,
  "In its dusty aphelion fast fading away.

"I see, 'mong those fatuous meteors behind,
  "Londonderry, _in vacuo_, flaring about;--
"While that dim double star, of the nebulous kind,
  "Is the Gemini, Roden and Lorton, no doubt.

"Ah, Ellenborough! 'faith, I first thought 'twas the Comet;
  "So like that in Milton, it made me quite pale;
"The head with the same 'horrid hair' coming from it,
  "And plenty of vapor, but--where is the tail?"

Just then, up aloft jumpt the gazer elated--
  For lo! his bright glass a phenomenon showed,
Which he took to be Cumberland, _upwards_ translated,
  Instead of his natural course, _t'other_ road!

But too awful that sight for a spirit so shaken,--
  Down dropt the poor Tory in fits and  grimaces,
Then off to the Bedlam in Charles Street was taken,
  And is now one of Halford's most favorite cases.


[1] Eclipses and comets have been always looked to as great changers of
administrations.

[2] The Duke of Buckingham.

       *       *       *       *       *






FROM THE HON. HENRY ----, TO LADY EMMA ----.

_Paris, March 30,1833_.


You bid me explain, my dear angry Ma'amselle,
How I came thus to bolt without saying farewell;
And the truth is,--as truth you _will_ have, my sweet railer,--
  There are two worthy persons I always feel loath
To take leave of at starting,--my mistress and tailor,--
  As somehow one always has _scenes_ with them both;
The Snip in ill-humor, the Syren in tears,
  She calling on Heaven, and he on the attorney,--
Till sometimes, in short, 'twixt his duns and his dears,
  A young gentleman risks being stopt in his journey.

But to come to the point, tho' you think, I dare say.
That 'tis debt or the Cholera drives me away,
'Pon honor you're wrong;--such a mere bagatelle
  As a pestilence, nobody now-a-days fears;
And the fact is, my love, I'm thus bolting, pell-mell,
  To get out of the way of these horrid new Peers;[1]
This deluge of coronets frightful to think of;
Which England is now for her sins on the brink of;
This coinage of _nobles_,--coined all of 'em, badly,
And sure to bring Counts to a _dis_-count most sadly.

Only think! to have Lords over running the nation,
As plenty as frogs in a Dutch inundation;
No shelter from Barons, from Earls no protection,
And tadpole young Lords too in every direction,--
Things created in haste just to make a Court list of,
Two legs and a coronet all they consist of!
The prospect's quite frightful, and what Sir George Rose
  (My particular friend) says is perfectly true,
That, so dire the alternative, nobody knows,
  'Twixt the Peers and the Pestilence, what he's to do;
And Sir George even doubts,--could he choose his disorder,--
'Twixt coffin and coronet, _which_ he would order.
This being the case, why, I thought, my dear Emma,
'Twere best to fight shy of so curst a dilemma;
And tho' I confess myself somewhat a villain,
  To've left _idol mio_ without an _addio_,
Console your sweet heart, and a week hence from Milan
  I'll send you--some news of Bellini's last trio.

N.B.  Have just packt up my travelling set-out,
Things a tourist in Italy _can't_ go without--
Viz., a pair of _gants gras_, from old Houbigant's shop,
Good for hands that the air of Mont Cenis might chap.
Small presents for ladies,--and nothing so wheedles
The creatures abroad as your golden-eyed needles.
A neat pocket Horace by which folks are cozened
To think one knows Latin, when--one, perhaps, doesn't;
With some little book about heathen mythology,
Just large enough to refresh one's theology;
Nothing on earth being half such a bore as
Not knowing the difference 'twixt Virgins and Floras.
Once more, love, farewell, best regards to the girls,
And mind you beware of damp feet and new Earls.

HENRY.


[1] A new creation of Peers was generally expected at this time.






TRIUMPH OF BIGOTRY.


    College.--We announced, in our last that Lefroy and Shaw were
    returned. They were chaired yesterday; the Students of the College
    determined, it would seem, to imitate the mob in all things,
    harnessing themselves to the car, and the Masters of Arts bearing
    Orange flags and bludgeons before, beside, and behind the car."
    _Dublin Evening Post_, Dec. 20, 1832.


Ay, yoke ye to the bigots' car,
  Ye chosen of Alma Mater's scions;-
Fleet chargers drew the God of War,
  Great Cybele was drawn by lions,
And Sylvan Pan, as Poet's dream,
Drove four young panthers in his team.
Thus classical Lefroy, for once, is,
  Thus, studious of a like turn-out,
He harnesses young sucking dunces,
  To draw him as their Chief about,
And let the world a picture see
Of Dulness yoked to Bigotry:
Showing us how young College hacks
Can pace with bigots at their backs,
As tho' the cubs were _born_ to draw
Such luggage as Lefroy and Shaw,
Oh! shade of Goldsmith, shade of Swift,
  Bright spirits whom, in days of yore,
This Queen of Dulness sent adrift,
  As aliens to her foggy shore;---
Shade of our glorious Grattan, too,
  Whose very name her shame recalls;
Whose effigy her bigot crew
  Reversed upon their monkish walls,[1]--
Bear witness (lest the world should doubt)
  To your mute Mother's dull renown,
Then famous but for Wit turned _out_,
  And Eloquence _turned upside down_;
But now ordained new wreaths to win,
  Beyond all fame of former days,
By breaking thus young donkies in
  To draw M.P.s amid the brays
  Alike of donkies and M.A.s;--
  Defying Oxford to surpass 'em
  In this new "_Gradus ad Parnassum_."


[1] In the year 1799, the Board of Trinity College, Dublin, thought
proper, as a mode of expressing their disapprobation of Mr. Grattan's
public conduct, to order his portrait, in the Great Hall of the
University, to be turned upside down, and in this position it remained for
some time.






TRANSLATION FROM THE GULL LANGUAGE.


    _Scripta manet_.


1833.


'Twas graved on the Stone of Destiny,[1]
In letters four and letters three;
And ne'er did the King of the Gulls go by
But those awful letters scared his eye;
For he knew that a Prophet Voice had said,
"As long as those words by man were read,
"The ancient race of the Gulls should ne'er
"One hour of peace or plenty share."
But years on years successive flew,
And the letters still more legible grew,--
At top, a T, an H, an E,
And underneath, D. E. B. T.

Some thought them Hebrew,--such as Jews
More skilled in Scrip than Scripture use;
While some surmised 'twas an ancient way
Of keeping accounts, (well known in the day
Of the famed Didlerius Jeremias,
Who had thereto a wonderful bias,)
And proved in books most learnedly boring,
'Twas called the Pon_tick_ way of scoring.

Howe'er this be there never were yet
Seven letters of the alphabet,
That 'twixt them formed so grim a spell,
Or scared a Land of Gulls so well,
As did this awful riddle-me-ree
Of T. H. E. D. E. B. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hark!--it is struggling Freedom's cry;
"Help, help, ye nations, or I die;
"'Tis Freedom's fight and on the field
"Where I expire _your_ doom is sealed."
The Gull-King hears the awakening call,
He hath summoned his Peers and Patriots all,
And he asks. "Ye noble Gulls, shall we
"Stand basely by at the fall of the Free,
"Nor utter a curse nor deal a blow?"
And they answer with voice of thunder, "No."

Out fly their flashing swords in the air!--
But,--why do they rest suspended there?
What sudden blight, what baleful charm,
Hath chilled each eye and checkt each arm?
Alas! some withering hand hath thrown
The veil from off that fatal stone,
And pointing now with sapless finger,
Showeth where dark those letters linger,--
Letters four and letters three,
T. H. E. D. E. B. T.

At sight thereof, each lifted brand
Powerless falls from every hand;
In vain the Patriot knits his brow,--
Even talk, his staple, fails him now.
In vain the King like a hero treads,
His Lords of the Treasury shake their heads;
And to all his talk of "brave and free,"
No answer getteth His Majesty
But "T. H. E. D. E. B. T."

In short, the whole Gull nation feels
They're fairly spell-bound, neck and heels;
And so, in the face of the laughing world,
Must e'en sit down with banners furled,
Adjourning all their dreams sublime
Of glory and war to-some other time.


[1] Liafail, or the Stone of Destiny,--for which see Westminster Abbey.






NOTIONS ON REFORM.

BY A MODERN REFORMER.


Of all the misfortunes as yet brought to pass
  By this comet-like Bill, with its long tail of speeches,
The saddest and worst is the schism which, alas!
  It has caused between Wetherel's waistcoat and breeches.

Some symptoms of this Anti-Union propensity
  Had oft broken out in that quarter before;
But the breach, since the Bill, has attained such immensity,
  Daniel himself could have scarce wisht it more.

Oh! haste to repair it, ye friends of good order,
  Ye Atwoods and Wynns, ere the moment is past;
Who can doubt that we tread upon Anarchy's border,
  When the ties that should hold men are loosening so fast?

_Make_ Wetherel yield to "some sort of Reform"
  (As we all must, God help us! with very wry faces;)
And loud as he likes let him bluster and storm
  About Corporate Rights, so he'll only wear braces.

Should those he now sports have been long in possession,
  And, like his own borough, the worse for the wear,
Advise him at least as a prudent concession
  To Intellect's progress, to buy a new pair.

Oh! who that e'er saw him when vocal he stands,
  With a look something midway 'twixt Filch's and Lockit's,
While still, to inspire him, his deeply-thrust hands
  Keep jingling the rhino in both breeches-pockets--

Who that ever has listened thro' groan and thro' cough,
  To the speeches inspired by this music of pence,--
But must grieve that there's any thing like _falling off_
  In that great nether source of his wit and his sense?

Who that knows how he lookt when, with grace debonair,
  He began first to court--rather late in the season--
Or when, less fastidious, he sat in the chair
  Of his old friend, the Nottingham Goddess of Reason;[1]

That Goddess whose borough-like virtue attracted
  All mongers in _both_ wares to proffer their love;
Whose chair like the stool of the Pythoness acted,
  As Wetherel's rants ever since go to prove;

_Who_ in short would not grieve if a man of his graces
  Should go on rejecting, unwarned by the past,
The "moderate Reform" of a pair of new braces,
  Till, some day,--he'll all fall to pieces at last.


[1] It will be recollected that the learned gentleman himself boasted, one
night, in the House of Commons, of having sat in the very chair which this
allegorical lady had occupied.






TORY PLEDGES.


I pledge myself thro' thick and thin,
  To labor still with zeal devout
To get the Outs, poor devils, in,
  And turn the Ins, the wretches, out.

I pledge myself, tho' much bereft
  Of ways and means of ruling ill,
To make the most of what are left,
  And stick to all that's rotten still.

Tho' gone the days of place and pelf,
  And drones no more take all the honey,
I pledge myself to cram myself
  With all I can of public money.

To quarter on that social purse
  My nephews, nieces, sisters, brothers,
Nor, so _we_ prosper, care a curse
  How much 'tis at the expense of others.

I pledge myself, whenever Right
  And Might on any point divide,
Not to ask which is black or white.
  But take at once the strongest side.

For instance, in all Tithe discussions,
 I'm _for_ the Reverend encroachers:-
I loathe the Poles, applaud the Russians,--
  Am _for_ the Squires, _against_ the Poachers.

Betwixt the Corn-lords and the Poor
  I've not the slightest hesitation,--
The People _must_ be starved, to insure
  The Land its due remuneration.

I pledge myself to be no more
  With Ireland's wrongs beprosed or shammed,--
I vote her grievances a _bore_,
  So she may suffer and be damned.

Or if she kick, let it console us,
  We still have plenty of red coats,
To cram the Church, that general bolus,
  Down any given amount of throats.

I dearly love the Frankfort Diet,--
  Think newspapers the worst of crimes;
And would, to give some chance of quiet,
  Hang all the writers of _"The Times;_"

Break all their correspondents' bones,
  All authors of "Reply," "Rejoinder,"
From the Anti-Tory, Colonel Jones,
  To the Anti-Suttee, Mr. Poynder.

Such are the Pledges I propose;
  And tho' I can't now offer gold,
There's many a way of buying those
  Who've but the taste for being sold.

So here's, with three times three hurrahs,
  A toast of which you'll not complain,--
"Long life to jobbing; may the days
  "Of Peculation shine again!"






ST. JEROME ON EARTH.

FIRST VISIT.

1832.


As St. Jerome who died some ages ago,
Was sitting one day in the shades below,
"I've heard much of English bishops," quoth he,
"And shall now take a trip to earth to see
"How far they agree in their lives and ways
"With our good old bishops of ancient days."

He had learned--but learned without misgivings--
Their love for good living and eke good livings;
Not knowing (as ne'er having taken degrees)
That good _living_ means claret and fricassees,
While its plural means simply--pluralities.

"From all I hear," said the innocent man,
"They are quite on the good old primitive plan.
"For wealth and pomp they little can care,
"As they all say _'No'_ to the Episcopal chair;
"And their vestal virtue it well denotes
"That they all, good men, wear petticoats."

Thus saying, post-haste to earth he hurries,
And knocks at the Archbishop of Canterbury's.
The door was oped by a lackey in lace,
Saying, "What's your business with his Grace?"
"His Grace!" quoth Jerome--for posed was he,
Not knowing what _sort_ this Grace could be;
Whether Grace _preventing_, Grace _particular_,
Grace of that breed called _Quinquarticular_--[1]

In short he rummaged his holy mind
The exact description of Grace to find,
Which thus could represented be
By a footman in full livery.
At last, out loud in a laugh he broke,
(For dearly the good saint loved his joke)[2]
And said--surveying, as sly he spoke,
The costly palace from roof to base--
"Well, it isn't, at least, a _saving_ Grace!"
"Umph!" said the lackey, a man of few words,
"The Archbishop is gone to the House of Lords."

"To the House of the Lord, you mean, my son,
"For in _my_ time at least there was but one;
Unless such many-_fold_ priests as these
"Seek, even in their LORD, pluralities!"[3]
"No time for gab," quoth the man in lace:
Then slamming the door in St. Jerome's face
With a curse to the single knockers all
Went to finish his port in the servants' hall,
And propose a toast (humanely meant
To include even Curates in its extent)
"To all as _serves_ the Establishment."


[1] So called from the proceedings of the Synod of Dort.

[2] Witness his well known pun on the name of his adversary Vigilantius,
whom he calls facetiously Dormitantius.

[3] The suspicion attached to some of the early Fathers of being Arians in
their doctrine would appear to derive some confirmation, from this
passage.






ST. JEROME ON EARTH.

SECOND VISIT.


    "This much I dare say, that, since _lording_ and loitering hath
    come up, preaching hath come down, contrary to the Apostles' times.
    For they preached and _lorded_ not; and now they _lord_ and
    preach not.... Ever since the Prelates were made Lords and Nobles, the
    plough standeth; there is no work done, people starve."
    --_Latimer, "Sermon of the Plough."_


"Once more," said Jerome, "I'll run up and see
How the Church goes on,"--and off set he.
Just then the packet-boat which trades
Betwixt our planet and the shades
Had arrived below with a freight so queer,
"My eyes!" said Jerome, "what have we here?"--
For he saw, when nearer he explored,
They'd a cargo of Bishops' wigs aboard.

"They are ghosts of wigs," said Charon, "all,
"Once worn by nobs Episcopal.[1]
"For folks on earth, who've got a store
"Of cast off things they'll want no more,
"Oft send them down, as gifts, you know,
"To a certain Gentleman here below.
"A sign of the times, I plainly see,"
Said the Saint to himself as, pondering, he
Sailed off in the death-boat gallantly.

Arrived on earth, quoth he, "No more
"I'll affect a body as before;
"For I think I'd best, in the company
"Of Spiritual Lords, a spirit be,
"And glide unseen from See to See."
But oh! to tell what scenes he saw,--
It was more than Rabelais's pen could draw.
For instance, he found Exeter,
Soul, body, inkstand, all in a stir,--
For love of God? for sake of King?
For good of people?--no such thing;
But to get for himself, by some new trick,
A shove to a better bishoprick.

He found that pious soul, Van Mildert,
Much with his money-bags bewildered;
Snubbing the Clerks of the Diocese,
Because the rogues showed restlessness
At having too little cash to touch,
While he so Christianly bears too much.
He found old Sarum's wits as gone
As his own beloved text in John,--[2]
Text he hath prosed so long upon,
That 'tis thought when askt, at the gate of heaven,
His name, he'll answer, "John, v. 7."

"But enough of Bishops I've had to-day,"
Said the weary Saint,--"I must away.
"Tho' I own I should like before I go
"To see for once (as I'm askt below
"If really such odd sights exist)
"A regular six-fold Pluralist."
Just then he heard a general cry--
"There's Doctor Hodgson galloping by!"
"Ay, that's the man," says the Saint, "to follow,"
And off he sets with a loud view-hello,
At Hodgson's heels, to catch if he can
A glimpse of this singular plural man.
But,--talk of Sir Boyle Roche's bird![3]
To compare him with Hodgson is absurd.
"Which way, sir, pray, is the doctor gone?"--
"He is now at his living at Hillingdon."--
"No, no,--you're out, by many a mile,
"He's away at his Deanery in Carlisle."--
"Pardon me, sir; but I understand
"He's gone to his living in Cumberland."--
"God bless me, no,--he can't be there;
"You must try St. George's, Hanover Square."

Thus all in vain the Saint inquired,
From living to living, mockt and tired;--
'Twas Hodgson here, 'twas Hodgson there,
'Twas Hodgson nowhere, everywhere;
Till fairly beat the Saint gave o'er
And flitted away to the Stygian shore,
To astonish the natives underground
With the comical things he on earth had found.


[1] The wig, which had so long formed an essential part of the dress of an
English bishop, was at this time beginning to be dispensed with.

[2] 1 John v. 7. A text which, though long given up by all the rest of the
orthodox world, is still pertinaciously adhered to by this Right Reverend
scholar.

[3] It was a saying of the well-known Sir Boyle, that "a man could not be
in two places at once, unless he was a bird."






THOUGHTS ON TAR BARRELS.

(VIDE DESCRIPTION OF A LATE FETE.)[1]

1832.


What a pleasing contrivance! how aptly devised
  'Twixt tar and magnolias to puzzle one's noses!
And how the tar-barrels must all be surprised
  To find themselves seated like "Love among roses!"

What a pity we can't, by precautions like these,
  Clear the air of that other still viler infection;
That radical pest, that old whiggish disease,
  Of which cases, true-blue, are in every direction.

Stead of barrels, let's light up an _Auto da Fe_
  Of a few good combustible Lords of "the Club;"
They would fume in a trice, the Whig cholera away,
  And there's Bucky would burn like a barrel of bub.

How Roden would blaze! and what rubbish throw out!
  A volcano of nonsense in active display;
While Vane, as a butt, amidst laughter, would spout
  The hot nothings he's full of, all night and all day.

And then, for a finish, there's Cumberland's Duke,--
  Good Lord, how his chin-tuft would crackle in air!
Unless (as is shrewdly surmised from his look)
  He's already bespoke for combustion elsewhere.


[1] The Marquis of Hertford's Fete.--From dread of cholera his Lordship
had ordered tar-barrels to be burned in every direction.






THE CONSULTATION.[1]


    "When they _do_ agree, their unanimity is
    wonderful. _The Critic_.


1833.


_Scene discovers Dr. Whig and Dr. Tory in consultation. Patient on the
floor between them_.

  _Dr. Whig_.--This wild Irish patient _does_ pester me so.
That what to do with him, I'm curst if I know.
I've _promist_ him anodynes--
  _Dr. Tory_. Anodynes!--Stuff.
Tie him down--gag him well--he'll be tranquil enough.
That's _my_ mode of practice.
  _Dr Whig_. True, quite in _your_ line,
But unluckily not much, till lately, in _mine_.
'Tis so painful--
  _Dr. Tory_.--Pooh, nonsense--ask Ude how he feels,
When, for Epicure feasts, he prepares his live eels,
By flinging them in, 'twixt the bars of the fire,
And letting them wriggle on there till they tire.
_He_, too, says "'tis painful"--"quite makes his heart bleed"--
But "Your eels are a vile, oleaginous breed."--
He would fain use them gently, but Cookery says "No,"
And--in short--eels were _born_ to be treated just so.[2]
'Tis the same with these Irish,--who're odder fish still,--
Your tender Whig heart shrinks from using them ill;
I myself in my youth, ere I came to get wise,
Used at some operations to blush to the eyes:--
But, in fact, my dear brother,--if I may make bold
To style you, as Peachum did Lockit, of old,--
We, Doctors, _must_ act with the firmness of Ude,
And, indifferent like him,--so the fish is _but_ stewed,--
_Must_ torture live Pats for the general good.
       [_Here patient groans and kicks a little_.]
  _Dr. Whig_.--But what, if one's patient's so devilish perverse,
That he _won't_ be thus tortured?
  _Dr. Tory_. Coerce, sir, coerce.
You're a juvenile performer, but once you begin,
You can't think how fast you may train your hand in:
And (_smiling_) who knows but old Tory may take to the shelf,
With the comforting thought that, in place and in pelf,
He's succeeded by one just as--bad as himself?
  _Dr. Whig_ (_looking flattered_).--
Why, to tell you the truth, I've a small matter here,
Which you helped me to make for my patient last year,--
       [_Goes to a cupboard and brings out a strait-waistcoat
        and gag_.]
And such rest I've enjoyed from his raving since then
That I've made up my mind he shall wear it again.
  _Dr. Tory_ (_embracing him_).--
Oh, charming!---My dear Doctor Whig, you're a treasure,
Next to torturing, _myself_, to help _you_ is a pleasure.
       [_Assisting Dr. Whig_.]
Give me leave--I've some practice in these mad machines;
There--tighter--the gag in the mouth, by all means.
Delightful!--all's snug--not a squeak need you fear,--
You may now put your anodynes off till next year.
       [_Scene closes_.]


[1] These verses, as well as some others that follow, were extorted from
me by that lamentable measure of the Whig ministry, the Irish Coercion
Act.

[2] This eminent artist, in the second edition of the work wherein he
propounds this mode of purifying his eels, professes himself much
concerned at the charge of inhumanity brought against his practice, but
still begs leave respectfully to repeat that it _is_ the only proper
mode of preparing eels for the table.






TO THE REV. CHARLES OVERTON,

CURATE OF ROMALDKIRK.

AUTHOR OF THE POETICAL PORTRAITURE OF THE CHURCH.

1833.


Sweet singer of Romaldkirk, thou who art reckoned,
By critics Episcopal, David the Second,[1]
If thus, as a Curate, so lofty your flight,
Only think, in a Rectory, how you _would_ write!
Once fairly inspired by the "Tithe-crowned Apollo,"
(Who beats, I confess it, our lay Phoebus hollow,
Having gotten, besides the old _Nine's_ inspiration,
The _Tenth_ of all eatable things in creation.)
There's nothing in fact that a poet like you,
So be-_nined_ and be-_tenthed_, couldn't easily do.

Round the lips of the sweet-tongued Athenian[2] they say,
While yet but a babe in his cradle he lay,
Wild honey-bees swarmed as presage to tell
Of the sweet-flowing words that thence afterwards fell.
Just so round our Overton's cradle, no doubt,
Tenth ducklings and chicks were seen flitting about;
Goose embryos, waiting their doomed decimation,
Came, shadowing forth his adult destination,
And small, sucking tithe-pigs, in musical droves,
Announced the Church poet whom Chester approves.
O Horace! when thou, in thy vision of yore,
Didst dream that a snowy-white plumage came o'er
Thy etherealized limbs, stealing downily on,
Till, by Fancy's strong spell, thou wert turned to a swan,
Little thought'st thou such fate could a poet befall,
Without any effort of fancy, at all;
Little thought'st thou the world would in Overton find
A bird, ready-made, somewhat different in kind,
But as perfect as Michaelmas' self could produce,
By gods yclept _anser_, by mortals a _goose_.


[1] "Your Lordship," says Mr. Overton, in the Dedication of his Poem to
the Bishop of Chester," has kindly expressed your persuasion that my Muse
will always be a 'Muse of sacred song and that it will be tuned as David's
was.'"

[2] Sophocles.






SCENE FROM A PLAY, ACTED AT OXFORD, CALLED "MATRICULATION."[1]


[Boy discovered at a table, with the Thirty-Nine Articles before him.--
Enter the Rt. Rev. Doctor Phillpots.]

_Doctor P_.--There, my lad, lie the
Articles--(_Boy begins to count them_) just thirty nine--
No occasion to count--you've now only to sign.
At Cambridge where folks are less High-church than we,
The whole Nine-and-Thirty are lumped into Three.
Let's run o'er the items;--there 'a Justification,
Predestination, and Supererogation--
Not forgetting Salvation and Creed Athanasian,
Till we reach, at last, Queen Bess's Ratification.
That is sufficient--now, sign--having read quite enough,
You "believe in the full and true meaning thereof?"

(_Boy stares_.)

Oh! a mere form of words, to make things smooth and brief,--
A commodious and short make-believe of belief,
Which our Church has drawn up in a form thus articular
To keep out in general all who're particular.
But what's the boy doing? what! reading all thro',
And my luncheon fast cooling!--this never will do.
_Boy_ (_poring over the Articles_).--
Here are points which--pray, Doctor, what's "Grace of Congruity?"
_Doctor P._ (_sharply_).--You'll find out, young sir, when
you've more ingenuity.
At present, by signing, you pledge yourself merely.
Whate'er it may be, to believe it sincerely,
Both in _dining_ and _signing_ we take the same plan,--
First, swallow all down, then digest--as we can.
_Boy_ (_still reading_).--I've to gulp, I see, St. Athanasius's
  Creed,
Which. I'm told, is a very tough morsel indeed;
As he damns--

  _Doctor P. (aside)_.--Ay, and so would _I_, willingly, too,
All confounded particular young boobies, like you.
This comes of Reforming!--all's o'er with our land,
When people won't stand what they can't _under_-stand;
Nor perceive that our ever-revered Thirty-Nine
Were made not for men to _believe_ but to _sign_.
              _Exit Dr. P. in a passion_.

[1] It appears that when a youth of fifteen went to be matriculated at
Oxford, he was required first to subscribe the Thirty-Nine Articles of
Religious Belief.






LATE TITHE CASE.


    _"sic vos non vobis."_


1833.


    "The Vicar of Birmingham desires me to state that, in consequence of
    the passing of a recent Act of Parliament, he is compelled to adopt
    measures which may by some be considered harsh or precipitate; but,
    _in duty to what he owes to his successors_, he feels bound to
    preserve the rights of the vicarage."
    --_Letter from Mr. S. Powell_, August 6.


No, _not_ for yourselves, ye reverend men,
Do you take one pig in every ten,
But for Holy Church's future heirs,
Who've an abstract right to that pig, as theirs;
The law supposing that such heirs male
Are already seized of the pig, in tail.
No, _not_ for himself hath Birmingham's priest
His "well-beloved" of their pennies fleeced:
But it is that, before his prescient eyes,
All future Vicars of Birmingham rise,
With their embryo daughters, nephews, nieces,
And 'tis for _them_ the poor he fleeces.
He heareth their voices, ages hence
Saying, "Take the pig"--"oh take the pence;"
The cries of little Vicarial dears,
The unborn Birminghamites, reach his ears;
And, did he resist that soft appeal,
He would _not_ like a true-born Vicar feel.
Thou, too, Lundy of Lackington!
A rector true, if e'er there was one,
Who, for sake of the Lundies of coming ages,
Gripest the tenths of laborer's wages.[1]
'Tis true, in the pockets of _thy_ small-clothes
The claimed "obvention"[2]of four-pence goes;
But its abstract spirit, unconfined,
Spreads to all future Rector-kind,
Warning them all to their rights to wake,
And rather to face the block, the stake,
Than give up their darling right _to take_.

One grain of musk, it is said, perfumes
(So subtle its spirit) a thousand rooms,
And a single four-pence, pocketed well,
Thro' a thousand rectors' lives will tell.
Then still continue, ye reverend souls,
And still as your rich Pactolus rolls,
Grasp every penny on every side,
From every wretch, to swell its tide:
Remembering still what the Law lays down,
In that pure poetic style of its own.
"If the parson _in esse_ submits to loss, he
"Inflicts the same on the parson _in posse_."


[1] Fourteen agricultural laborers (one of whom received so little as six
guineas for yearly wages, one eight, one nine, another ten guineas, and
the best paid of the whole not more than 18_l_. annually) were all, in the
course of the autumn of 1832, served with demands of tithe at the rate of
4_d_. in the 1_l_. sterling, on behalf of the Rev. F. Lundy, Rector of
Lackington, etc.--_The Times_, August, 1833.

[2] One of the various general terms under which oblations, tithes, etc.,
are comprised.






FOOLS' PARADISE.

DREAM THE FIRST.


I have been, like Puck, I have been, in a trice,
To a realm they call Fool's Paradise,
Lying N.N.E. of the Land of Sense,
And seldom blest with a glimmer thence.
But they wanted not in this happy place,
Where a light of its own gilds every face;
Or if some wear a shadowy brow,
'Tis the _wish_ to look wise,--not knowing _how_.
Self-glory glistens o'er all that's there,
The trees, the flowers have a jaunty air;
The well-bred wind in a whisper blows,
The snow, if it snows, is _couleur de rose_,
The falling founts in a titter fall,
And the sun looks simpering down on all.

Oh, 'tisn't in tongue or pen to trace
The scenes I saw in that joyous place.
There were Lords and Ladies sitting together,
In converse sweet, "What charming weather!--
"You'll all rejoice to hear, I'm sure,
"Lord Charles has got a good sinecure;
"And the Premier says, my youngest brother
"(Him in the Guards) shall have another.

"Isn't this very, _very_ gallant!--
"As for my poor old virgin aunt,
"Who has lost her all, poor thing, at whist,
"We must quarter _her_ on the Pension List."
Thus smoothly time in that Eden rolled;
It seemed like an Age of _real_ gold,
Where all who liked might have a slice,
So rich was that Fools' Paradise.

But the sport at which most time they spent,
Was a puppet-show, called Parliament
Performed by wooden Ciceros,
As large as life, who rose to prose,
While, hid behind them, lords and squires,
Who owned the puppets, pulled the wires;
And thought it the very best device
Of that most prosperous Paradise,
To make the vulgar pay thro' the nose
For them and their wooden Ciceros.

And many more such things I saw
In this Eden of Church and State and Law;
Nor e'er were known such pleasant folk
As those who had the _best_ of the joke.
There were Irish Rectors, such as resort
To Cheltenham yearly, to drink--port,
And bumper, "Long may the Church endure,
"May her cure of souls be a sinecure,
"And a score of Parsons to every soul
"A moderate allowance on the whole."
There were Heads of Colleges lying about,
From which the sense had all run out,
Even to the lowest classic lees,
Till nothing was left but _quantities_;
Which made them heads most fit to be
Stuck up on a University,
Which yearly hatches, in its schools,
Such flights of young Elysian fools.
Thus all went on, so snug and nice,
In this happiest possible Paradise.

But plain it was to see, alas!
That a downfall soon must come to pass.
For grief is a lot the good and wise
Don't quite so much monopolize,
But that ("lapt in Elysium" as they are)
Even blessed fools must have their share.
And so it happened:--but what befell,
In Dream the Second I mean to tell.






THE RECTOR AND HIS CURATE;

OR, ONE POUND TWO.


    "I trust we shall part as we met, in peace and charity. My last
    payment to you paid your salary up to the 1st of this month. Since
    that, I owe you for one month, which, being a long month, of
    thirty-one days, amounts, as near as I can calculate, to six pounds
    eight shillings. My steward returns you as a debtor to the amount of
    SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS FOR COX-ACRE-GROUND, which leaves some
    trifling balance in my favor."--_Letter of Dismissal from the Rev.
    Marcus Beresford to his Curate, the Rev. T. A. Lyons_.


The account is balanced--the bill drawn out,--
The debit and credit all right, no doubt--
The Rector rolling in wealth and state,
Owes to his Curate six pound eight;
The Curate, that _least_ well-fed of men,
Owes to his Rector seven pound ten,
Which maketh the balance clearly due
From Curate to Rector, one pound two.

Ah balance, on earth unfair, uneven!
But sure to be all set right in heaven,
Where bills like these will be checkt, some day,
And the balance settled the other way:
Where Lyons the curate's hard-wrung sum
Will back to his shade with interest come;
And Marcus, the rector, deep may rue
This tot, in his favor, of one pound two.






PADDY'S METAMORPHOSIS.

1833.


About fifty years since, in the days of our daddies,
  That plan was commenced which the wise now applaud,
Of shipping off Ireland's most turbulent Paddies,
  As good raw material for _settlers_, abroad.
Some West-India island, whose name I forget,
  Was the region then chosen for this scheme so romantic;
And such the success the first colony met,
  That a second, soon after, set sail o'er the Atlantic.

Behold them now safe at the long-lookt-for shore,
  Sailing in between banks that the Shannon might greet,
And thinking of friends whom, but two years before,
  They had sorrowed to lose, but would soon again meet.

And, hark! from the shore a glad welcome there came--
  "Arrah, Paddy from Cork, is it you, my sweet boy?"
While Pat stood astounded, to hear his own name
  Thus hailed by black devils, who capered for joy!

Can it possibly be?--half amazement--half doubt,
  Pat listens again--rubs his eyes and looks steady;
Then heaves a deep sigh, and in horror yells out,
  "Good Lord! only think,--black and curly already!"

Deceived by that well-mimickt brogue in his ears,
  Pat read his own doom in these wool-headed figures,
And thought, what a climate, in less than two years,
  To turn a whole cargo of Pats into niggers!

MORAL.

'Tis thus,--but alas! by a marvel more true
  Than is told in this rival of Ovid's best stories,--
Your Whigs, when in office a short year or two,
  By a _lusus naturae_, all turn into Tories.

And thus, when I hear them "strong measures" advise,
  Ere the seats that they sit on have time to get steady,
I say, while I listen, with tears in my eyes,
  "Good Lord! only think,--black and curly already!"






COCKER, ON CHURCH REFORM.

FOUNDED UPON SOME LATE CALCULATIONS.

1833.


Fine figures of speech let your orators follow,
Old Cocker has figures that beat them all hollow.
Tho' famed for his rules _Aristotle_ may be,
In but _half_ of this Sage any merit I see,
For, as honest Joe Hume says, the "_tottle_" for me!

For instance, while others discuss and debate,
It is thus about Bishops _I_ ratiocinate.

In England, where, spite of the infidel's laughter,
'Tis certain our souls are lookt _very_ well after,
Two Bishops can well (if judiciously sundered)
Of parishes manage two thousand two hundred.--
Said number of parishes, under said teachers,
Containing three millions of Protestant creatures,--
So that each of said Bishops full ably controls
One million and five hundred thousands of souls.

And now comes old Cocker. In Ireland we're told,
_Half_ a million includes the whole Protestant fold;
If, therefore, for three million souls, 'tis conceded
_Two_ proper-sized Bishops are all that is needed,
'Tis plain, for the Irish _half_ million who want 'em,
_One-third_ of _one_ Bishop is just the right quantum.
And thus, by old Cocker's sublime Rule of Three,
The Irish Church question's resolved to a T;
Keeping always that excellent maxim in view,
That, in saving men's souls, we must save money too.

Nay, if--as St. Roden complains is the case--
The half million of _soul_ is decreasing apace,
The demand, too, for _bishop_ will also fall off,
Till the _tithe_ of one, taken in kind be enough.
But, as fractions imply that we'd have to dissect,
And to cutting up Bishops I strongly object.
We've a small, fractious prelate whom well we could spare,
Who has just the same decimal worth, to a hair,
And, not to leave Ireland too much in the lurch.
We'll let her have Exeter, _sole_, as her Church.






LES HOMMES AUTOMATES.

1834.


    "We are persuaded that this our artificial man will not only walk and
    speak and perform most of the outward functions of animal life, but
    (being wound up once a week) will perhaps reason as well as most of
    your country parsons."--"_Memoirs of Martinus Scriblerus_,"
    chap. xii.


It being an object now to meet
With Parsons that don't want to eat,
Fit men to fill those Irish rectories,
Which soon will have but scant refectories,
It has been suggested,--lest that Church
Should all at once be left in the lurch
For want of reverend men endued
With this gift of never requiring food,--
To try, by way of experiment, whether
There couldn't be made of wood and leather,[1]
(Howe'er the notion may sound chimerical,)
Jointed figures, not _lay_,[2] but clerical,
Which, wound up carefully once a week,
Might just like parsons look and speak,
Nay even, if requisite, reason too,
As well as most Irish parsons do.

The experiment having succeeded quite,
(Whereat those Lords must much delight,
Who've shown, by stopping the Church's food,
They think it isn't for her spiritual good
To be served by parsons of flesh and blood,)
The Patentees of this new invention
Beg leave respectfully to mention,
They now are enabled to produce
An ample supply for present use,
Of these reverend pieces of machinery,
Ready for vicarage, rectory, deanery,
Or any such-like post of skill
That wood and leather are fit to fill.

N.B.--In places addicted to arson,
We can't recommend a wooden parson:
But if the Church any such appoints,
They'd better at least have iron joints.
In parts, not much by Protestants haunted,
A figure to _look at_'s all that's wanted--
A block in black, to eat and sleep,
Which (now that the eating's o'er) comes cheap.

P.S.--Should the Lords, by way of a treat,
Permit the clergy again to eat,
The Church will of course no longer need
Imitation-parsons that never feed;
And these _wood_ creatures of ours will sell
For secular purposes just as well--
Our Beresfords, turned to bludgeons stout,
May, 'stead of beating their own about,
Be knocking the brains of Papists out;
While our smooth O'Sullivans, by all means,
Should transmigrate into _turning_ machines.


[1] The materials of which those Nuremberg Savans, mentioned by
Scriblerus, constructed their artificial man.

[2] The wooden models used by painters are, it is well known, called "lay
figures".






HOW TO MAKE ONE'S SELF A PEER.

ACCORDING TO THE NEWEST RECEIPT AS DISCLOSED IN A LATE HERALDIC WORK,[1]

1834.


Choose some title that's dormant--the Peerage hath many--
Lord Baron of Shamdos sounds nobly as any.
Next, catch a dead cousin of said defunct Peer,
And marry him, off hand, in some given year,
To the daughter of somebody,--no matter who,--
Fig, the grocer himself, if you're hard run, will do;
For, the Medici _pills_ still in heraldry tell,
And why shouldn't _lollypops_ quarter as well?
Thus, having your couple, and one a lord's cousin,
Young materials for peers may be had by the dozen;
And 'tis hard if, inventing each small mother's son of 'em,
You can't somehow manage to prove _yourself_ one of 'em.

Should registers, deeds and such matters refractory,
Stand in the way of this lord-manufactory,
I've merely to hint, as a secret auricular,
One _grand_ rule of enterprise,--_don't_ be particular.
A man who once takes such a jump at nobility,
Must _not_ mince the matter, like folks of nihility,
But clear thick and thin with true lordly agility.

'Tis true, to a would-be descendant from Kings,
Parish-registers sometimes are troublesome things;
As oft, when the vision is near brought about,
Some goblin, in shape of a grocer, grins out;
Or some barber, perhaps, with my Lord mingles bloods,
And one's patent of peerage is left in the suds.

But there _are_ ways--when folks are resolved to be lords--
Of expurging even troublesome parish records.
What think ye of scissors? depend on't no heir
Of a Shamdos should go unsupplied with a pair,
As whate'er _else_ the learned in such lore may invent,
Your scissors does wonders in proving descent.
Yes, poets may sing of those terrible shears
With which Atropos snips off both bumpkins and peers,
But they're naught to that weapon which shines in the hands
Of some would-be Patricians, when proudly he stands
O'er the careless churchwarden's baptismal array,
And sweeps at each cut generations away.
By some babe of old times is his peerage resisted?

One snip,--and the urchin hath _never_ existed!
Does some marriage, in days near the Flood, interfere
With his one sublime object of being a Peer?
Quick the shears at once nullify bridegroom and bride,--
No such people have ever lived, married or died!

Such the newest receipt for those high minded elves,
Who've a fancy for making great lords of themselves.
Follow this, young aspirer who pant'st for a peerage,
Take S--m for thy model and B--z for thy steerage,
Do all and much worse than old Nicholas Flam does,
And--_who_ knows but you'll be Lord Baron of Shamdos?


[1] The claim to the barony of Chandos (if I recollect right) advanced by
the late Sir Egerinton Brydges.






THE DUKE IS THE LAD.


    Air.--"A master I have, and I am his man,
    Galloping dreary dun."
    "_Castle of Andalusia_."


The Duke is the lad to frighten a lass.
  Galloping, dreary duke;
  The Duke is the lad to frighten a lass,
  He's an ogre to meet, and the devil to pass,
      With his charger prancing,
      Grim eye glancing,
      Chin, like a Mufti,
      Grizzled and tufty,
    Galloping, dreary Duke.

Ye misses, beware of the neighborhood
  Of this galloping dreary Duke;
Avoid him, all who see no good
In being run o'er by a Prince of the Blood.
      For, surely, no nymph is
      Fond of a grim phiz.
      And of the married,
      Whole crowds have miscarried
  At sight of this dreary Duke.






EPISTLE

FROM ERASMUS ON EARTH TO CICERO IN THE SHADES.


Southampton.

As 'tis now, my dear Tully, some weeks since I started
By railroad for earth, having vowed ere we parted
To drop you a line by the Dead-Letter post,
Just to say how I thrive in my new line of ghost,
And how deucedly odd this live world all appears,
To a man who's been dead now for three hundred years,
I take up my pen, and with news of this earth
Hope to waken by turns both your spleen and your mirth.

In my way to these shores, taking Italy first,
Lest the change from Elysium too sudden should burst,
I forgot not to visit those haunts where of yore
You took lessons from Paetus in cookery's lore.
Turned aside from the calls of the rostrum and Muse,
To discuss the rich merits of _rotis_ and stews,
And preferred to all honors of triumph or trophy,
A supper on prawns with that rogue, little Sophy.

Having dwelt on such classical musings awhile,
I set off by a steam-boat for this happy isle,
(A conveyance _you_ ne'er, I think, sailed by, my Tully,
And therefore, _per_ next, I'll describe it more fully,)
Having heard on the way what distresses me greatly,
That England's o'errun by _idolaters_ lately,
Stark, staring adorers of wood and of stone,
Who will let neither stick, stock or statue alone.
Such the sad news I heard from a tall man in black,
Who from sports continental was hurrying back,
To look after his tithes;--seeing, doubtless, 'twould follow,
That just as of old your great idol, Apollo,
Devoured all the Tenths, so the idols in question,
These wood and stone gods, may have equal digestion,
And the idolatrous crew whom this Rector despises,
May eat up the tithe-pig which _he_ idolizes.

London.

'Tis all but too true--grim Idolatry reigns
In full pomp over England's lost cities and plains!
On arriving just now, as my first thought and care
Was as usual to seek out some near House of Prayer,
Some calm holy spot, fit for Christians to pray on,
I was shown to--what think you?--a downright Pantheon!

A grand, pillared temple with niches and halls,
Full of idols and gods, which they nickname St. Paul's;--
Tho' 'tis clearly the place where the idolatrous crew
Whom the Rector complained of, their dark rites pursue;
And, 'mong all the "strange gods" Abr'ham's father carved out,[1]
That he ever carv'd _stranger_ than these I much doubt.

  Were it even, my dear TULLY, your Hebes and Graces,
And such pretty things, that usurpt the Saints' places,
I shouldn't much mind,--for in this classic dome
Such folks from Olympus would feel quite at home.
But the gods they've got here!--such a queer omnium gatherum
Of misbegot things that no poet would father 'em;--
Britannias in light summer-wear for the skies,--
Old Thames turned to stone, to his no small surprise,--
Father Nile, too,--a portrait, (in spite of what's said,
That no mortal e'er yet got a glimpse of his _head_,)
And a Ganges which India would think somewhat fat for't,
Unless 'twas some full-grown Director had sat for't;--
Not to mention the _et caeteras_ of Genii and Sphinxes,
Fame, Victory, and other such semi-clad minxes;--
Sea Captains,[2]--the idols here most idolized;
And of whom some, alas! might too well be comprized
Among ready-made Saints, as they died _cannonized_;
With a multitude more of odd cockneyfied deities,
Shrined in such pomp that quite shocking to see it 'tis;
Nor know I what better the Rector could do
Than to shrine there his own beloved quadruped too;
As most surely a tithe-pig, whate'er the world thinks, is
A much fitter beast for a church than a Sphinx is.

  But I'm called off to dinner--grace just has been said,
And my host waits for nobody, living or dead.


[1] Joshua xxiv 2.

[2] Captains Mosse, Riou etc.






LINES ON THE DEPARTURE OF LORD CASTLEREAGH
AND STEWART FOR THE CONTINENT.[1]


    _at Paris[2] et Fratres, et qui rapure sub illis.
    vix tenuere manus (scis hoc, Menelae) nefandas_.
    OVID. _Metam. lib_. xiii. v. 202.


Go, Brothers in wisdom--go, bright pair of Peers,
  And my Cupid and Fame fan you both with their pinions!
The _one_, the best lover we have--_of his years_,
  And the other Prime Statesman of Britain's dominions.

Go, Hero of Chancery, blest with the smile
  Of the Misses that love and the monarchs that prize thee;
Forget Mrs. Angelo Taylor awhile,
  And all tailors but him who so well _dandifies_ thee.

Never mind how thy juniors in gallantry scoff,
  Never heed how perverse affidavits may thwart thee,
But show the young Misses thou'rt scholar enough
  To translate "_Amor Fortis_" a love, _about forty_!

And sure 'tis no wonder, when, fresh as young Mars,
  From the battle you came, with the Orders you'd earned in't,
That sweet Lady Fanny should cry out "_My stars_!"
  And forget that the _Moon_, too, was some way concerned in't.

For not the great Regent himself has endured
  (Tho' I've seen him with badges and orders all shine,
Till he lookt like a house that was _over_ insured)
  A much heavier burden of glories than thine.

And 'tis plain, when a wealthy young lady so mad is,
  Or _any_ young ladies can so go astray,
As to marry old Dandies that might be their daddies,
  The _stars_ are in fault, my Lord Stewart, not they!

Thou, too, t'other brother, thou Tully of Tories,
  Thou _Malaprop_ Cicero, over whose lips
Such a smooth rigmarole about; "monarchs," and "glories,"
  And "_nullidge_," and "features," like syllabub slips.

Go, haste, at the Congress pursue thy vocation
  Of adding fresh sums to this National Debt of ours,
Leaguing with Kings, who for mere recreation
  Break promises, fast as your Lordship breaks metaphors.

Fare ye well, fare ye well, bright Pair of Peers,
  And may Cupid and Fame fan you both with their pinions!
The one, the best lover we have--_of his years_,
And the other, Prime Statesman of Britain's dominions.


[1] This and the following squib, which must have been written about the
year 1815-16, have been by some oversight misplaced.

[2] Ovid is mistaken in saying that it was "at Paris" these rapacious
transactions took place--we should read "at Vienna."






TO THE SHIP IN WHICH LORD CASTLEREAGH SAILED FOR THE CONTINENT.

_Imitated from Horace, lib. i, ode 3_.


So may my Lady's prayers prevail,
  And Canning's too, and _lucid_ Bragge's,
And Eldon beg a favoring gale
  From Eolus, that _older_ Bags,
To speed thee on thy destined way,
Oh ship, that bearest our Castlereagh,
Our gracious Regent's better half
  And _therefore_ quarter of a King--
(As Van or any other calf
  May find without much figuring).
Waft him, oh ye kindly breezes,
  Waft this Lord of place and pelf,
Any where his Lordship pleases,
  Tho' 'twere to Old Nick himself!

Oh, what a face of brass was his.
Who first at Congress showed his phiz--
To sign away the Rights of Man
  To Russian threats and Austrian juggle;
And leave the sinking African
  To fall without one saving struggle--
'Mong ministers from North and South,
  To show his lack of shame and sense,
And hoist the sign of "Bull and Mouth"
  For blunders and for eloquence!

In vain we wish our _Secs_, at home
  To mind their papers, desks, and shelves,
If silly _Secs_, abroad _will_ roam
  And make such noodles of themselves.

But such hath always been the case--
For matchless impudence of face,
There's nothing like your Tory race!
First, Pitt, the chosen of England, taught her
A taste for famine, fire and slaughter.
Then came the Doctor, for our ease,
With Eldons, Chathams, Hawksburies,
And other deadly maladies.
When each in turn had run their rigs,
Necessity brought in the Whigs:

And oh! I blush, I blush to say,
  When these, in turn, were put to flight, too,
Illustrious TEMPLE flew away
  With _lots of pens he had no right to_.[1]
In short, what _will_ not mortal man do?
  And now, that--strife and bloodshed past--
We've done on earth what harm we can do,
  We gravely take to heaven at last
And think its favoring smile to purchase
(Oh Lord, good Lord!) by--building churches!


[1] This alludes to the 1200_l_. worth of stationery, which his Lordship
is said to have ordered, when on the point of _vacating_ his place.






SKETCH OF THE FIRST ACT OF A NEW ROMANTIC DRAMA.


"And now," quoth the goddess, in accents jocose,
"Having got good materials, I'll brew such a dose
"Of Double X mischief as, mortals shall say,
"They've not known its equal for many a long day."
Here she winkt to her subaltern imps to be steady,
And all wagged their fire-tipt tails and stood ready.

"So, now for the ingredients:--first, hand me that bishop;"
Whereupon, a whole bevy of imps run to fish up
From out a large reservoir wherein they pen 'em
The blackest of all its black dabblers in venom;
And wrapping him up (lest the virus should ooze,
And one "drop of the immortal"[1] Right Rev.[2] they might lose)
In the sheets of his own speeches, charges, reviews,
Pop him into the caldron, while loudly a burst
From the by-standers welcomes ingredient the first!

"Now fetch the Ex-Chancellor," muttered the dame--
"He who's called after Harry the Older, by name."
"The Ex-Chancellor!" echoed her imps, the whole crew of 'em--
"Why talk of _one_ Ex, when your Mischief has _two_ of 'em?"
"True, true," said the hag, looking arch at her elves,
"And a double-_Ex_ dose they compose, in themselves."
This joke, the sly meaning of which was seen lucidly,
Set all the devils a laughing most deucedly.
So, in went the pair, and (what none thought surprising)
Showed talents for sinking as great as for rising;
While not a grim phiz in that realm but was lighted
With joy to see spirits so twin-like united--
Or (plainly to speak) two such birds of a feather,
In one mess of venom thus spitted together.
Here a flashy imp rose--some connection, no doubt,
Of the young lord in question--and, scowling about,
"Hoped his fiery friend, Stanley, would not be left out;
"As no schoolboy unwhipt, the whole world must agree,
"Loved mischief, _pure_ mischief, more dearly than he."

But, no--the wise hag wouldn't hear of the whipster;
Not merely because, as a shrew, he eclipst her,
And nature had given him, to keep him still young,
Much tongue in his head and no head in his tongue;
But because she well knew that, for change ever ready,
He'd not even to mischief keep properly steady:
That soon even the _wrong_ side would cease to delight,
And, for want of a change, he must swerve to the _right_;
While, on _each_, so at random his missiles he threw,
That the side he attackt was most safe, of the two.--
This ingredient was therefore put by on the shelf,
There to bubble, a bitter, hot mess, by itself.
"And now," quoth the hag, as her caldron she eyed.
And the tidbits so friendlily rankling inside,
"There wants but some seasoning;--so, come, ere I stew 'em,
"By way of a relish we'll throw in John Tuam.'
"In cooking up mischief, there's no flesh or fish
"Like your meddling High Priest, to add zest to the dish."
Thus saying, she pops in the Irish Grand Lama--
Which great event ends the First Act of the Drama.


[1] To lose no drop of the immortal man.

[2] The present Bishop of Exeter.






ANIMAL MAGNETISM.


Tho' famed was Mesmer, in his day,
Nor less so, in ours, is Dupotet,
To say nothing of all the wonders done
By that wizard, Dr. Elliotson,
When, standing as if the gods to invoke, he
Up waves his arm, and--down drops Okey![1]
Tho' strange these things, to mind and sense,
  If you wish still stranger things to see--
If you wish to know the power immense
Of the true magnetic influence,
  Just go to her Majesty's Treasury,
And learn the wonders working there--
And I'll be hanged if you don't stare!
Talk of your animal magnetists,
And that wave of the hand no soul resists,
Not all its witcheries can compete
With the friendly beckon towards Downing Street,
Which a Premier gives to one who wishes
To taste of the Treasury loaves and fishes.
It actually lifts the lucky elf,
Thus acted upon, _above_ himself;--
He jumps to a state of _clairvoyance_,
And is placeman, statesman, all, at once!

These effects, observe (with which I begin),
Take place when the patient's motioned _in_;
Far different of course the mode of affection,
When the wave of the hand's in the _out_ direction;
The effects being then extremely unpleasant,
As is seen in the case of Lord Brougham, at present;
In whom this sort of manipulation,
Has lately produced such inflammation,
Attended with constant irritation,
That, in short--not to mince his situation--
It has workt in the man a transformation
That puzzles all human calculation!
Ever since the fatal day which saw
That "pass" performed on this Lord of Law--
A pass potential, none can doubt,
As it sent Harry Brougham to the right about--
The condition in which the patient has been
Is a thing quite awful to be seen.
Not that a casual eye could scan
  This wondrous change by outward survey;
It being, in fact, the _interior_ man
  That's turned completely topsy-turvy:--
Like a case that lately, in reading o'er 'em,
I found in the _Acta Eruditorum_,
Of a man in whose inside, when disclosed,
The whole order of things was found transposed;
By a _lusus naturae_, strange to see,
The liver placed where the heart should be,
And the _spleen_ (like Brougham's, since laid on the shelf)
As diseased and as much _out of place_ as himself.

In short, 'tis a case for consultation,
If e'er there was one, in this thinking nation;
And therefore I humbly beg to propose,
That those _savans_ who mean, as the rumor goes,
To sit on Miss Okey's wonderful case,
Should also Lord Parry's case embrace;
And inform us, in _both_ these patients' states,
Which _ism_ it is that predominates,
Whether magnetism and somnambulism,
Or, simply and solely, mountebankism.


[1] The name of the heroine of the performances at the North London
Hospital.






THE SONG OF THE BOX.


Let History boast of her Romans and Spartans,
And tell how they stood against tyranny's shock;
They were all, I confess, in _my_ eye, Betty Martins
  Compared to George Grote and his wonderful Box.

Ask, where Liberty now has her seat?--Oh, it isn't
  By Delaware's banks or on Switzerland's rocks;--
Like an imp in some conjuror's bottle imprisoned,
  She's slyly shut up in Grote's wonderful Box.

How snug!--'stead of floating thro' ether's dominions,
  Blown _this_ way and _that_, by the "_populi vox_,"
To fold thus in silence her sinecure pinions,
  And go fast asleep in Grote's wonderful Box.

Time was, when free speech was the life-breath of freedom--
  So thought once the Seldens, the Hampdens, the Lockes;
But mute be _our_ troops, when to ambush we lead 'em,
  "For Mum" is the word with us Knights of the Box.

Pure, exquisite Box! no corruption can soil it;
  There's Otto of Rose in each breath it unlocks;
While Grote is the "Betty," that serves at the toilet,
  And breathes all Arabia around from his Box.

'Tis a singular fact, that the famed Hugo Grotius
  (A namesake of Grote's--being both of Dutch stocks),
Like Grote, too, a genius profound as precocious,
  Was also, like him, much renowned for a Box;--

An immortal old clothes-box, in which the great Grotius
  When suffering in prison for views heterodox,
Was packt up incog. spite of jailers ferocious,[1]
  And sent to his wife,[2] carriage free, in a Box!

But the fame of old Hugo now rests on the shelf,
  Since a rival hath risen that all parallel mocks;--
_That_ Grotius ingloriously saved but himself,
  While _ours_ saves the whole British realm by a Box!

And oh! when, at last, even this greatest of Grotes
  Must bend to the Power that at every door knocks,
May he drop in the urn like his own "silent votes,"
  And the tomb of his rest be a large Ballot-Box.

While long at his shrine, both from county and city,
  Shall pilgrims triennially gather in flocks,
And sing, while they whimper, the appropriate ditty,
  "Oh breathe not his _name_, let it sleep--in the Box."


[1] For the particulars of this escape of Grotius from the Castle of
Louvenstein, by means of a box (only three feet and a half long, it is
said) in which books used to be occasionally sent to him and foul linen
returned, see any of the Biographical Dictionaries.

[2] This is not quite according to the facts of the case; his wife having
been the contriver of the stratagem, and remained in the prison herself to
give him time for escape.






ANNOUNCEMENT OF A NEW THALABA.

ADDRESSED TO ROBERT SOUTHEY, ESQ.


When erst, my Southey, thy tuneful tongue
The terrible tale of Thalaba sung--
Of him, the Destroyer, doomed to rout
That grim divan of conjurors out,
Whose dwelling dark, as legends say,
Beneath the roots of the ocean lay,
(Fit place for deep ones, such as they,)
How little thou knewest, dear Dr. Southey,
Altho' bright genius all allow thee,
That, some years thence, thy wondering eyes
Should see a second Thalaba rise--
As ripe for ruinous rigs as thine,
Tho' his havoc lie in a different line,
And should find this new, improved Destroyer
Beneath the wig of a Yankee lawyer;
A sort of an "alien," _alias_ man,
Whose country or party guess who can,
Being Cockney half, half Jonathan;
And his life, to make the thing completer,
Being all in the genuine Thalaba metre,
Loose and irregular as thy feet are;--
First, into Whig Pindarics rambling,
Then in low Tory doggrel scrambling;
Now _love_ his theme, now _Church_ his glory
(At once both Tory and ama-tory),
Now in the Old Bailey-_lay_ meandering,
Now in soft _couplet_ style philandering;
And, lastly, in lame Alexandrine,
Dragging his wounded length along,
When scourged by Holland's silken thong.

In short, dear Bob, Destroyer the Second
May fairly a match for the First be reckoned;
Save that _your_ Thalaba's talent lay
In sweeping old conjurors clean away,
While ours at aldermen deals his blows,
(Who no great conjurors are, God knows,)
Lays Corporations, by wholesale, level,
Sends Acts of Parliament to the devil,
Bullies the whole Milesian race--
Seven millions of Paddies, face to face;
And, seizing that magic wand, himself,
Which erst thy conjurors left on the shelf,
Transforms the boys of the Boyne and Liffey
All into _foreigners_, in a jiffy--
Aliens, outcasts, every soul of 'em,
Born but for whips and chains, the whole of 'em?

Never in short did parallel
Betwixt two heroes _gee_ so well;
And among the points in which they fit,
There's one, dear Bob, I can't omit.
That hacking, hectoring blade of thine
Dealt much in the _Domdaniel_ line;
And 'tis but rendering justice due,
To say that ours and his Tory crew
_Damn Daniel_ most devoutly too.






RIVAL TOPICS.[1]

AN EXTRAVAGANZA.


Oh Wellington and Stephenson,
  Oh morn and evening papers,
_Times_, _Herald_, _Courier_, _Globe_, and _Sun_,
When will ye cease our ears to stun
  With these two heroes' capers?
Still "Stephenson" and "Wellington,"
  The everlasting two!--
Still doomed, from rise to set of sun,
To hear what mischief one has done,
  And t'other means to do:--
What bills the banker past to friends,
  But never meant to pay;
What Bills the other wight intends,
  As honest, in their way;--
Bills, payable at distant sight,
  Beyond the Grecian kalends,
When all good deeds will come to light,
When Wellington will do what's right,
  And Rowland pay his balance.

To catch the banker all have sought,
  But still the rogue unhurt is;
While t'other juggler--who'd have thought?
Tho' slippery long, has just been caught
  By old Archbishop Curtis;--
And, such the power of papal crook,
  The crosier scarce had quivered
About his ears, when, lo! the Duke
  Was of a Bull delivered!
Sir Richard Birnie doth decide
  That Rowland "must be mad,"
In private coach, with crest, to ride,
  When chaises could be had.
And t'other hero, all agree,
  St. Luke's will soon arrive at,
If thus he shows off publicly,
  When he might pass in private.
Oh Wellington, oh Stephenson,
  Ye ever-boring pair,
Where'er I sit, or stand, or run,
  Ye haunt me everywhere.
Tho' Job had patience tough enough,
  Such duplicates would try it;
Till one's turned out and t'other off,
  We Shan' have peace or quiet.
But small's the chance that Law affords--
  Such folks are daily let off;
And, 'twixt the old Bailey and the Lords,
  They both, I fear, will get off.


[1] The date of this squib must have been, I think, about 1828-9.






THE BOY STATESMAN.

BY A TORY.


    "That boy will be the death of me."
    _Matthews at Home_.


Ah, Tories dear, our ruin is near,
  With Stanley to help us, we can't but fall;
Already a warning voice I hear,
Like the late Charles Matthews' croak in my ear,
  "That boy--that boy'll be the death of you all."

He will, God help us!--not even Scriblerius
  In the "Art of Sinking" his match could be;
And our case is growing exceeding serious,
  For, all being in the same boat as he,
  If down my Lord goes, down go we,
  Lord Baron Stanley and Company,
As deep in Oblivion's swamp below
As such "Masters Shallow," well could go;
And where we shall all both low and high,
Embalmed in mud, as forgotten lie
As already doth Graham of Netherby!
But that boy, that boy!--there's a tale I know,
Which in talking of him comes a_propos_.
Sir Thomas More had an only son,
And a foolish lad was that only one,
  And Sir Thomas said one day to his wife,
"My dear, I can't but wish you joy.
"For you prayed for a boy, and you now have a boy,
"Who'll continue a boy to the end of his life."

Even such is our own distressing lot,
With the ever-young statesman we have got;
Nay even still worse; for Master More
Wasn't more a youth than he'd been before,
While _ours_ such power of boyhood shows,
That the older he gets the more juvenile he grows,
And at what extreme old age he'll close
His schoolboy course, heaven only knows;--
Some century hence, should he reach so far,
  And ourselves to witness it heaven condemn,
We shall find him a sort of _cub_ Old Parr,
  A whipper-snapper Methusalem;
Nay, even should he make still longer stay of it,
The boy'll want _judgment_, even to the day of it!
Meanwhile, 'tis a serious, sad infliction;
  And day and night with awe I recall
The late Mr. Matthews' solemn prediction,
  "That boy'll be the death, the death of you all."






LETTER

FROM LARRY O'BRANIGAN TO THE REV. MURTHAGH O'MULLIGAN.


Arrah, where were _you_, Murthagh, that beautiful day?--
  Or how came it your riverence was laid on the shelf,
When that poor craythur, Bobby--as _you_ were away--
  Had to make _twice_ as big a Tomfool of _himself_.

Troth, it wasn't at all civil to lave in the lurch
  A boy so deserving your tindhr'est affection:--
Too such iligant Siamase twins of the Church,
  As Bob and yourself, ne'er should cut the connection.

If thus in two different directions you pull,
  'Faith, they'll swear that yourself and your riverend brother
Are like those quare foxes, in Gregory's Bull,
  Whose tails were joined _one_ way, while they lookt
_another_![1]

Och blest be he, whosomdever he be,
  That helpt soft Magee to that Bull of a Letther!
Not even my own self, tho' I sometimes make free
  At such bull-manufacture, could make him a betther.

To be sure, when a lad takes to _forgin_', this way,
  'Tis a thrick he's much timpted to carry on gayly;
Till, at last, his "injanious devices,"[2]
  Show him up, not at Exether Hall, but the Ould Bailey.

That parsons should forge thus appears mighty odd,
  And (as if somethin' "odd" in their _names_, too, must be,)
_One_ forger, of ould, was a riverend Dod,
  "While a riverend Todd's now his match, to a T.[3]

But, no matther _who_ did it all blessin's betide him,
  For dishin' up Bob, in a manner so nate;
And there wanted but _you_, Murthagh 'vourneen, beside him,
  To make the whole grand dish of _bull_-calf complate.


[1] "You will increase the enmity with which they are regarded by their
associates in heresy, thus tying these foxes by the tails, that their
faces may tend in opposite directions."--Bob's _Bull_ read, at Exeter
Hall, July 14.

[2] "An ingenious device of my learned friend."--Bob's _Letter to
Standard_.

[3] Had I consulted only my own wishes, I should not have allowed this
hasty at tack on Dr. Todd to have made its appearance in this Collection;
being now fully convinced that the charge brought against that reverend
gentleman of intending to pass off as genuine his famous mock Papal Letter
was altogether unfounded. Finding it to be the wish, however, of my
reverend friend--as I am now glad to be permitted to call him--that both
the wrong and the reparation, the Ode and, the Palinode, should be thus
placed in juxtaposition, I have thought it but due to him, to comply with
his request.






MUSINGS OF AN UNREFORMED PEER.


Of all the odd plans of this monstrously queer age,
The oddest is that of reforming the peerage;--
Just as if we, great dons, with a title and star,
Did not get on exceedingly well as we are,
And perform all the functions of noodles by birth
As completely as any born noodles on earth.

How _acres_ descend, is in law-books displayed,
But we as _wise_acres descend, ready made;
And by right of our rank in Debrett's nomenclature,
Are all of us born legislators by nature;--
Like ducklings to water instinctively taking,
So we with like quackery take to lawmaking;
And God forbid any reform should come o'er us,
To make us more wise than our sires were before us.

The Egyptians of old the same policy knew--
If your sire was a cook, you must be a cook too:
Thus making, from father to son, a good trade of it,
Poisoners _by right_ (so no more could be said of it),
The cooks like our lordships a pretty mess made of it;
While, famed for _conservative_ stomachs, the Egyptians
Without a wry face bolted all the prescriptions.

It is true, we've among us some peers of the past,
Who keep pace with the present most awfully fast--
Fruits that ripen beneath the new light now arising
With speed that to _us_, old conserves, is surprising.
Conserves, in whom--potted, for grandmamma uses--
'Twould puzzle a sunbeam to find any juices.
'Tis true too. I fear, midst the general movement,
Even _our_ House, God help it, is doomed to improvement,
And all its live furniture, nobly descended
But sadly worn out, must be sent to be mended.
With _movables_ 'mong us, like Brougham and like Durham,
No wonder even _fixtures_ should learn to bestir 'em;
And distant, ye gods, be that terrible day,
When--as playful Old Nick, for his pastime, they say,
Flies off with old houses, sometimes, in a storm--
So _ours_ may be whipt off, some night, by Reform;
And as up, like Loretto's famed house,[1] thro' the air,
Not angels, but devils, our lordships shall bear,
Grim, radical phizzes, unused to the sky,
Shall flit round, like cherubs, to wish us "good-by,"
While perched up on clouds little imps of plebeians,
Small Grotes and O'Connells, shall sing Io Paeans.


[1] The _Casa Santa_, supposed to have been carried by angels through
the air from Galilee to Italy.






THE REVEREND PAMPHLETEER.

A ROMANTIC BALLAD.


Oh, have you heard what hapt of late?
  If not, come lend an ear,
While sad I state the piteous fate
  Of the Reverend Pamphleteer.

All praised his skilful jockeyship,
  Loud rung the Tory cheer,
While away, away, with spur and whip,
  Went the Reverend Pamphleteer.

The nag he rode--how _could_ it err?
  'Twas the same that took, last year,
That wonderful jump to Exeter
  With the Reverend Pamphleteer.

Set a beggar on horseback, wise men say,
  The course he will take is clear:
And in _that_ direction lay the way
  Of the Reverend Pamphleteer,

"Stop, stop," said Truth, but vain her cry--
  Left far away in the rear,
She heard but the usual gay "Good-by"
  From her faithless Pamphleteer.

You may talk of the jumps of Homer's gods,
  When cantering o'er our sphere--
I'd back for a _bounce_, 'gainst any odds,
  This Reverend Pamphleteer.

But ah! what tumbles a jockey hath!
  In the midst of his career,
A file of the _Times_ lay right in the path
  Of the headlong Pamphleteer.

Whether he tript or shyed thereat,
  Doth not so clear appear:
But down he came, as his sermons flat--
 This Reverend Pamphleteer!

Lord King himself could scarce desire
  To see a spiritual Peer
Fall much more dead, in the dirt and mire,
  Than did this Pamphleteer.

Yet pitying parsons many a day
  Shall visit his silent bier,
And, thinking the while of Stanhope, say
  "Poor dear old Pamphleteer!

"He has finisht at last his busy span,
  "And now _lies coolly_ here--
"As often he did in life, good man,
  "Good, Reverend Pamphleteer!"






RECENT DIALOGUE.

1825.


A Bishop and a bold dragoon,
  Both heroes in their way,
Did thus, of late, one afternoon,
  Unto each other say:--
"Dear bishop," quoth the brave huzzar,
  "As nobody denies
"That you a wise logician are,
  "And I am--otherwise,
"'Tis fit that in this question, we
  "Stick each to his own art--
"That _yours_ should be the sophistry,
  "And _mine_ the _fighting_ part.
"My creed, I need not tell you, is
  "Like that of Wellington,
"To whom no harlot comes amiss,
  "Save her of Babylon;
"And when we're at a loss for words,
  "If laughing reasoners flout us,
"For lack of sense we'll draw our swords--
  "The sole thing sharp about us."--

"Dear bold dragoon," the bishop said,
  "'Tis true for war thou art meant;
"And reasoning--bless that dandy head!
  "Is not in thy department.
"So leave the argument to me--
  "And, when my holy labor
"Hath lit the fires of bigotry,
  "Thou'lt poke them with thy sabre.
"From pulpit and from sentrybox,
  "We'll make our joint attacks,
"I at the head of my _Cassocks_,
  "And you, of your _Cossacks_.
"So here's your health, my brave huzzar,
  "My exquisite old fighter--
"Success to bigotry and war,
  "The musket and the mitre!"
Thus prayed the minister of heaven--
  While York, just entering then,
Snored out (as if some _Clerk_ had given
  His nose the cue) "Amen."






THE WELLINGTON SPA.


    "And drink _oblivion_ to our woes."
    Anna Matilda.


1829.


Talk no more of your Cheltenham and Harrowgate springs,
  'Tis from _Lethe_ we now our potations must draw;
Yon _Lethe_'s a cure for--all possible things,
  And the doctors have named it the Wellington Spa.

Other physical waters but cure you in part;
  _One_ cobbles your gout--_t'other_ mends your digestion--
Some settle your stomach, but _this_--bless your heart!--
  It will settle for ever your Catholic Question.

Unlike too the potions in fashion at present,
  This Wellington nostrum, restoring by stealth,
So purges the memory of all that's unpleasant,
  That patients _forget_ themselves into rude health.
For instance, the inventor--his having once said
  "He should think himself mad if at _any one's_ call,
"He became what he is"--is so purged from his head
  That he now doesn't think he's a madman at all.
Of course, for your memories of very long standing--
  Old chronic diseases that date back undaunted
To Brian Boroo and Fitz-Stephens' first landing--
  A devil of a dose of the _Lethe_ is wanted.

But even Irish patients can hardly regret
  An oblivion so much in their own native style,
So conveniently planned that, whate'er they forget,
  They may go on remembering it still all the while!






A CHARACTERLESS

1834.


Half Whig, half Tory, like those mid-way things,
'Twixt bird and beast, that by mistake have wings;
A mongrel Stateman, 'twixt two factions nurst,
Who, of the faults of each, combines the worst--
The Tory's loftiness, the Whigling's sneer,
The leveller's rashness, and the bigot's fear:
The thirst for meddling, restless still to show
How Freedom's clock, repaired by Whigs, will go;
The alarm when others, more sincere than they,
Advance the hands to the true time of day.

By Mother Church, high-fed and haughty dame,
The boy was dandled, in his dawn of fame;
Listening, she smiled, and blest the flippant tongue
On which the fate of unborn tithe-pigs hung.
Ah! who shall paint the grandam's grim dismay,
When loose Reform enticed her boy away;
When shockt she heard him ape the rabble's tone,
And in Old Sarum's fate foredoom her own!
Groaning she cried, while tears rolled down her cheeks,
"Poor, glib-tongued youth, he means not what he speaks.
"Like oil at top, these Whig professions flow,
"But, pure as lymph, runs Toryism below.
"Alas! that tongue should start thus, in the race,
"Ere mind can reach and regulate its pace!--
"For, once outstript by tongue, poor, lagging mind,
"At every step, still further limps behind.
"But, bless the boy!--whate'er his wandering be,
"Still turns his heart to Toryism and me.
"Like those odd shapes, portrayed in Dante's lay.
"With heads fixt on, the wrong and backward way,
"His feet and eyes pursue a diverse track,
"While _those_ march onward, _these_ look fondly back."
And well she knew him--well foresaw the day,
Which now hath come, when snatched from Whigs away
The self-same changeling drops the mask he wore,
And rests, restored, in granny's arms once more.

But whither now, mixt brood of modern light
And ancient darkness, canst thou bend thy flight?
Tried by both factions and to neither true,
Feared by the _old_ school, laught at by the _new_;
For _this_ too feeble and for _that_ too rash,
_This_ wanting more of fire, _that_ less of flash,
Lone shalt thou stand, in isolation cold,
Betwixt two worlds, the new one and the old,
A small and "vext Bermoothes," which the eye
Of venturous seaman sees--and passes by.






A GHOST STORY.

To THE AIR OF "UNFORTUNATE MISS BAILEY."

1835.


Not long in bed had Lyndhurst lain,
  When, as his lamp burned dimly,
The ghosts of corporate bodies slain,[1]
  Stood by his bedside grimly.
Dead aldermen who once could feast,
  But now, themselves, are fed on,
And skeletons of mayors deceased,
  This doleful chorus led on:--
        Oh Lord Lyndhurst,
        "Unmerciful Lord Lyndhurst,
          "Corpses we,
          "All burkt by thee,
        "Unmerciful Lord Lyndhurst!"

"Avaunt, ye frights!" his Lordship cried,
  "Ye look most glum and whitely."
"Ah, Lyndhurst dear!" the frights replied,
  "You've used us unpolitely.
"And now, ungrateful man! to drive
  "Dead bodies from your door so,
"Who quite corrupt enough, alive,
  "You've made by death still more so.
        "Oh, Ex-Chancellor,
      "Destructive Ex-Chancellor,
        "See thy work,
        "Thou second Burke,
      "Destructive Ex-Chancellor!"

Bold Lyndhurst then, whom naught could keep
  Awake or surely _that_ would,
Cried "Curse you all"--fell fast asleep--
  And dreamt of "Small _v_. Attwood."
While, shockt, the bodies flew downstairs,
  But courteous in their panic
Precedence gave to ghosts of mayors,
  And corpses aldermanic,
      Crying, "Oh, Lord Lyndhurst,
      "That terrible Lord Lyndhurst,
        "Not Old Scratch
        "Himself could match
      "That terrible Lord Lyndhurst."


[1] Referring to the line taken by Lord Lyndhurst, on the question of
Municipal Reform.






THOUGHTS ON THE LATE DESTRUCTIVE PROPOSITIONS OF THE TORIES.[1]

BY A COMMON-COUNCILMAN.

1835.


I sat me down in my easy chair,
  To read, as usual, the morning papers;
But--who shall describe my look of despair,
  When I came to Lefroy's "destructive" capers!
That _he_--that, of all live men, Lefroy
Should join in the cry "Destroy, destroy!"
Who, even when a babe, as I've heard said,
On Orange conserve was chiefly fed,
And never, till now, a movement made
That wasn't manfully retrograde!
Only think--to sweep from the light of day
Mayors, maces, criers and wigs away;
To annihilate--never to rise again--
A whole generation of aldermen,
Nor leave them even the accustomed tolls,
To keep together their bodies and souls!--
At a time too when snug posts and places
  Are falling away from us one by one,
Crash--crash--like the mummy-cases
  Belzoni, in Egypt, sat upon,
Wherein lay pickled, in state sublime,
Conservatives of the ancient time;--
To choose such a moment to overset
The few snug nuisances left us yet;
To add to the ruin that round us reigns,
By knocking out mayors' and town-clerks' brains;
By dooming all corporate bodies to fall,
Till they leave at last no bodies at all--
Naught but the ghosts of by-gone glory,
Wrecks of a world that once was Tory!--
Where pensive criers, like owls unblest,
  Robbed of their roosts, shall still hoot o'er them:
  Nor _mayors_ shall know where to seek a _nest_,
  Till Gaily Knight shall _find_ one for them;--
Till mayors and kings, with none to rue 'em,
  Shall perish all in one common plague;
And the _sovereigns_ of Belfast and Tuam
  Must join their brother, Charles Dix, at Prague.

Thus mused I, in my chair, alone,
(As above described) till dozy grown,
And nodding assent to my own opinions,
I found myself borne to sleep's dominions,
Where, lo! before my dreaming eyes,
A new House of Commons appeared to rise,
Whose living contents, to fancy's survey,
Seemed to me all turned topsy-turvy--
A jumble of polypi--nobody knew
Which was the head or which the queue.
_Here_, Inglis, turned to a sansculotte,
Was dancing the hays with Hume and Grote;
_There_, ripe for riot, Recorder Shaw
Was learning from Roebuck "Caira:"
While Stanley and Graham, as _poissarde_ wenches,
Screamed "_a-bas_!" from the Tory benches;
And Peel and O'Connell, cheek by jowl,
Were dancing an Irish carmagnole.

The Lord preserve us!--if dreams come true,
What _is_ this hapless realm to do?


[1] These verses were written in reference to the Bill brought in at this
time, for the reform of Corporations, and the sweeping amendments proposed
by Lord Lyndhurst and other Tory Peers, in order to obstruct the measure.






ANTICIPATED MEETING OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION IN THE YEAR 1836.

1836


After some observations from Dr. M'Grig
On that fossil reliquium called Petrified Wig,
Or _Perruquolithus_--a specimen rare
Of those wigs made for antediluvian wear,
Which, it seems, stood the Flood without turning a hair--
Mr. Tomkins rose up, and requested attention
To facts no less wondrous which he had to mention.

Some large fossil creatures had lately been found,
Of a species no longer now seen above ground,
But the same (as to Tomkins most clearly appears)
With those animals, lost now for hundreds of years,
Which our ancestors used to call "Bishops" and "Peers,"
But which Tomkins more erudite names has bestowed on,
Having called the Peer fossil the _Aris_-tocratodon,[1]
And, finding much food under t'other one's thorax,
Has christened that creature the Episcopus Vorax.

Lest the _savantes_ and dandies should think this all fable,
Mr. Tomkins most kindly produced, on the table,
A sample of each of these species of creatures,
Both tolerably human, in structure and features,
Except that the Episcopus seems, Lord deliver us!
To've been carnivorous as well as granivorous;
And Tomkins, on searching its stomach, found there
Large lumps, such as no modern stomach could bear,
Of a substance called Tithe, upon which, as 'tis said,
The whole _Genus Clericum_ formerly fed;
And which having lately himself decompounded,
Just to see what 'twas made of, he actually found it
Composed of all possible cookable things
That e'er tript upon trotters or soared upon wings--
All products of earth, both gramineous, herbaceous,
Hordeaceous, fabaceous and eke farinaceous,
All clubbing their quotas, to glut the oesophagus
Of this ever greedy and grasping Tithophagus.[2]
"Admire," exclaimed Tomkins. "the kind dispensation
"By Providence shed on this much-favored nation,
"In sweeping so ravenous a race from the earth,
"That might else have occasioned a general dearth--
"And thus burying 'em, deep as even Joe Hume would sink 'em,
"With the Ichthyosaurus and Paloeorynchum,
"And other queer _ci-devant_ things, under ground--
"Not forgetting that fossilized youth,[3] so renowned,
"Who lived just to witness the Deluge--was gratified
"Much by the sight, and has since been found _stratified_!"

This picturesque touch--quite in Tomkins's way--
Called forth from the _savantes_ a general hurrah;
While inquiries among them, went rapidly round,
As to where this young stratified man could be found.
The "learned Theban's" discourse next as livelily flowed on,
To sketch t'other wonder, the _Aris_tocratodon--
An animal, differing from most human creatures
Not so much in speech, inward structure or features,
As in having a certain excrescence, T. said,
Which in form of a coronet grew from its head,
And devolved to its heirs, when the creature was dead;
Nor mattered it, while this heirloom was transmitted,
How unfit were the _heads_, so the _coronet_ fitted.

He then mentioned a strange zooelogical fact,
Whose announcement appeared much applause to attract.
In France, said the learned professor, this race
Had so noxious become, in some centuries' space,
From their numbers and strength, that the land was o'errun with 'em,
Every one's question being, "What's to be done with em?"
When, lo! certain knowing ones--_savans_, mayhap,
Who, like Buckland's deep followers, understood _trap_,[4]
Slyly hinted that naught upon earth was so good
For _Aris_tocratodons, when rampant and rude,
As to stop or curtail their allowance of food.
This expedient was tried and a proof it affords
Of the effect that short commons will have upon lords;
For this whole race of bipeds, one fine summer's morn,
Shed their coronets, just as a deer sheds his horn,
And the moment these gewgaws fell off, they became
Quite a new sort of creature--so harmless and tame,
That zooelogists might, for the first time, maintain 'em
To be near akin to the _genius humanum_,
And the experiment, tried so successfully then,
Should be kept in remembrance when wanted again.


[1] A term formed on the model of the Mastodon, etc.

[2] The zooelogical term for a tithe-eater.

[3] The man found by Scheuchzer, and supposed by him to have witnessed the
Deluge ("_homo diluvii testis_"), but who turned out, I am sorry to
say, to be merely a great lizard.

[4] Particularly the formation called _Transition_ Trap.

       *       *       *       *       *






SONG OF THE CHURCH.

No. 1.

LEAVE ME ALONE.

A PASTORAL BALLAD.


    "We are ever standing on the defensive. All that we say to them is,
    '_leave us alone_.' The Established Church is part and parcel of
    the constitution of this country. You are bound to conform to this
    constitution. We ask of you nothing more:--_let us alone_."
    --Letter in _The Times_, Nov. 1838.


1838.


Come, list to my pastoral tones,
  In clover my shepherds I keep;
My stalls are well furnisht with drones,
  Whose preaching invites one to sleep.
At my _spirit_ let infidels scoff,
  So they leave but the _substance_ my own;
For in sooth I'm extremely well off
  If the world will but let me alone.

Dissenters are grumblers, we know;--
  Tho' excellent men in their way,
They never like things to be _so_,
  Let things be however they may.
But dissenting's a trick I detest;
  And besides 'tis an axiom well known,
The creed that's best paid is the best,
  If the _un_paid would let it alone.

To me, I own, very surprising
  Your Newmans and Puseys all seem,
Who start first with rationalizing,
  Then jump to the other extreme.
Far better, 'twixt nonsense and sense,
  A nice _half_-way concern, like our own,
Where piety's mixt up with pence,
  And the latter are _ne'er_ left alone.

Of all our tormentors, the Press is
  The one that most tears us to bits;
And now, Mrs. Woolfrey's "excesses"
  Have thrown all its imps into fits.
The devils have been at us, for weeks,
  And there's no saying when they'll have done;--
Oh dear! how I wish Mr. Breeks
  Had left Mrs. Woolfrey alone!

If any need pray for the dead,
  'Tis those to whom post-obits fall;
Since wisely hath Solomon said,
  'Tis "money that answereth all."
But ours be the patrons who _live_;-
  For, once in their glebe they are thrown,
The dead have no living to give,
  And therefore we leave them alone.

Tho' in morals we may not excel,
  Such perfection is rare to be had;
A good life is, of course, very well,
  But good living is also-not bad.
And when, to feed earth-worms, I go.
Let this epitaph stare from my stone,
"Here lies the Right Rev. so and so;
  "Pass, stranger, and--leave him alone."






EPISTLE FROM HENRY OF EXETER TO JOHN OF TUAM.


Dear John, as I know, like our brother of London,
You've sipt of all knowledge, both sacred and mundane,
No doubt, in some ancient Joe Miller, you've read
What Cato, that cunning old Roman, once said--
That he ne'er saw two reverend sooth-say ers meet,
Let it be where it might, in the shrine or the street,
Without wondering the rogues, mid their solemn grimaces,
Didn't burst out a laughing in each other's faces.
What Cato then meant, tho' 'tis so long ago,
Even we in the present times pretty well know;
Having soothsayers also, who--sooth to say, John--
Are no better in some points than those of days gone,
And a pair of whom, meeting (between you and me),
Might laugh in their sleeves, too--all lawn tho' they be.

But this, by the way--my intention being chiefly
In this, my first letter, to hint to you briefly,
That, seeing how fond you of _Tuum_[1] must be,
While _Meum's_ at all times the main point with me,
We scarce could do better than form an alliance,
To set these sad Anti-Church times at defiance:
You, John, recollect, being still to embark,
With no share in the firm but your title and _mark_;
Or even should you feel in your grandeur inclined
To call yourself Pope, why, I shouldn't much mind;
While _my_ church as usual holds fast by your Tuum,
And every one else's, to make it all Suum.

Thus allied, I've no doubt we shall nicely agree,
As no twins can be liker, in most points, than we;
Both, specimens choice of that mixt sort of beast,
(See Rev. xiii. I) a political priest:
Both mettlesome _chargers_, both brisk pamphleteers,
Ripe and ready for all that sets men by the ears;
And I, at least one, who would scorn to stick longer
By any given cause than I found it the stronger,
And who, smooth in my turnings, as if on a swivel,
When the tone ecclesiastic won't do, try the _civil_.

In short (not to bore you, even _jure divino_)
We've the same cause in common, John--all but the rhino;
And that vulgar surplus, whate'er it may be,
As you're not used to cash, John, you'd best leave to me.
And so, without form--as the postman won't tarry--
I'm, dear Jack of Tuain,
  Yours,
    EXETER HARRY.


[1] So spelled in those ancient versicles which John, we understand,
frequently chants:--
  "Had every one _Suum_,
  You wouldn't have _Tuum_,
  But I should have _Meum_,
  And sing _Te Deum_."






SONG OF OLD PUCK.


    "And those things do best please me,
    That befall preposterously."
    PUCK Junior, _Midsummer Night's Dream_.


Who wants old Puck? for here am I,
A mongrel imp, 'twixt earth and sky,
Ready alike to crawl or fly;
Now in the mud, now in the air,
And, so 'tis for mischief, reckless where.

As to my knowledge, there's no end to't,
For, where I haven't it, I pretend to't:
And, 'stead of taking a learned degree
At some dull university,
Puck found it handier to commence
With a certain share of impudence,
Which passes one off as learned and clever,
Beyond all other degrees whatever;
And enables a man of lively sconce
To be Master of _all_ the Arts at once.
No matter what the science may be--
Ethics, Physics, Theology,
Mathematics, Hydrostatics,
Aerostatics or Pneumatics--
Whatever it be, I take my luck,
'Tis all the same to ancient Puck;
Whose head's so full of all sorts of wares,
That a brother imp, old Smugden, swears
If I had but of _law_ a little smattering,
I'd then be _perfect_--which is flattering.

My skill as a linguist all must know
Who met me abroad some months ago;
(And heard me _abroad_ exceedingly,
In the moods and tenses of _parlez vous_)
When, as old Chambaud's shade stood mute,
I spoke such French to the Institute
As puzzled those learned Thebans much,
To know if 'twas Sanscrit or High Dutch,
And _might_ have past with the unobserving
As one of the unknown tongues of Irving.
As to my talent for ubiquity,
There's nothing like it in all antiquity.
Like Mungo (my peculiar care)
"I'm here, I'm dere, I'm ebery where."

If any one's wanted to take the chair
Upon any subject, any where,
Just look around, and--Puck is there!
When slaughter's at hand, your bird of prey
Is never known to be out of the way:
And wherever mischief's to be got,
There's Puck _instanter_, on the spot.

Only find me in negus and applause,
And I'm your man for _any_ cause.
If _wrong_ the cause, the more my delight;
But I don't object to it, even when _right_,
If I only can vex some old friend by't;
There's Durham, for instance;--to worry _him_
Fills up my cup of bliss to the brim!

(NOTE BY THE EDITOR.)

Those who are anxious to run a muck
Can't do better than join with Puck.
They'll find him _bon diable_--spite of his phiz--
And, in fact, his great ambition is,
While playing old Puck in first-rate style,
To be _thought_ Robin Good-fellow all the while.






POLICE REPORTS.

CASE OF IMPOSTURE.


Among other stray flashmen disposed of, this week,
  Was a youngster named Stanley, genteelly connected,
Who has lately been passing off coins as antique,
  Which have proved to be _sham_ ones, tho' long unsuspected.

The ancients, our readers need hardly be told,
  Had a coin they called "Talents," for wholesale demands;
And 'twas some of said coinage this youth was so bold
  As to fancy he'd got, God knows how, in his hands.

People took him, however, like fools, at his word;
  And these talents (all prized at his own valuation,)
Were bid for, with eagerness even more absurd
  Than has often distinguisht this great thinking nation.

Talk of wonders one now and then sees advertised,
  "Black swans"--"Queen Anne farthings"--or even "a child's caul"--
Much and justly as all these rare objects are prized,
  "Stanley's talents" outdid them--swans, farthings and all!

At length some mistrust of this coin got abroad;
  Even quondam believers began much to doubt of it;
Some rung it, some rubbed it, suspecting a fraud--
  And the hard rubs it got rather took the shine out of it.

Others, wishing to break the poor prodigy's fall,
  Said 'twas known well to all who had studied the matter,
That the Greeks had not only _great_ talents but _small_,
  And those found on the youngster were clearly _the latter_.

While others who viewed the grave farce with a grin--
  Seeing counterfeits pass thus for coinage so massy,
By way of a hint to the dolts taken in,
  Appropriately quoted Budaeus "de _Asse_."

In short, the whole sham by degrees was found out,
  And this coin which they chose by such fine names to call,
Proved a mere lackered article--showy, no doubt,
  But, ye gods! not the true Attic Talent at all.

As the impostor was still young enough to repent,
  And, besides, had some claims to a grandee connection,
Their Worships--considerate for once--only sent
  The young Thimblerig off to the House of Correction.






REFLECTIONS.

ADDRESSED TO THE AUTHOR OF THE ARTICLE OF THE CHURCH IN THE LAST NUMBER OF
_The Quarterly Review_.


I'm quite of your mind;--tho' these Pats cry aloud
  That they've got "too much Church," 'tis all nonsense and stuff;
For Church is like Love, of which Figaro vowed
  That even _too much_ of it's not quite enough.

Ay! dose them with parsons, 'twill cure all their ills;--
  Copy Morrison's mode when from pill-box undaunted he
Pours thro' the patient his black-coated pills,
  Nor cares what their quality, so there's but quantity.

I verily think 'twould be worth England's while
  To consider, for Paddy's own benefit, whether
'Twould not be as well to give up the green isle
  To the care, wear and tear of the Church altogether.

The Irish are well used to treatment so pleasant;
  The harlot Church gave them to Henry Plantagenet,[1]
And now if King William would make them a present
  To t'other chaste lady--ye Saints, just imagine it!

Chief Secs., Lord-Lieutenants, Commanders-in-chief,
  Might then all be culled from the episcopal benches;
While colonels in black would afford some relief
  From the hue that reminds one of the old scarlet wench's.

Think how fierce at a _charge_ (being practised therein)
  The Right Reverend Brigadier Phillpotts would slash on!
How General Blomfield, thro' thick and thro' thin,
  To the end of the chapter (or chapters) would dash on!

For in one point alone do the amply fed race
  Of bishops to beggars similitude bear--
That, set them on horseback, in full steeple chase,
  And they'll ride, if not pulled up in time--you know where.

But, bless you! in Ireland, that matters not much,
  Where affairs have for centuries gone the same way;
And a good stanch Conservative's system is such
  That he'd back even Beelzebub's long-founded sway.

I am therefore, dear _Quarterly_, quite of your mind;--
  Church, Church, in all shapes, into Erin let's pour:
And the more she rejecteth our medicine so kind.
  The more let's repeat it--"Black dose, as before."

Let Coercion, that peace-maker, go hand in hand
  With demure-eyed Conversion, fit sister and brother;
And, covering with prisons and churches the land,
  All that won't _go_ to _one_, we'll put _into_ the other.

For the sole, leading maxim of us who're inclined
  To rule over Ireland, not well but religiously,
Is to treat her like ladies who've just been confined
  (Or who _ought_ to be so), and to _church_ her prodigiously.


[1] Grant of Ireland to Henry II. by Pope Adrian.






NEW GRAND EXHIBITION OF MODELS OF THE TWO HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT.


Come, step in, gentlefolks, here ye may view
  An exact and natural representation
(Like Siburn's Model of Waterloo[1])
  Of the Lords and Commons of this here nation.

There they are--all cut out in cork--
  The "Collective Wisdom" wondrous to see;
My eyes! when all them heads are at work,
  What a vastly weighty consarn it must be.

As for the "wisdom,"--_that_ may come anon;
  Tho', to say truth, we sometimes see
(And I find the phenomenon no uncommon 'un)
  A man who's M.P. with a head that's M.T.

Our Lords are _rather_ too small, 'tis true;
  But they do well enough for Cabinet shelves;
And, besides,--_what's_ a man with creeturs to do
  That make such _werry_ small figures themselves?

There--don't touch those lords, my pretty dears--(_Aside_.)
  Curse the children!--this comes of reforming a nation:
Those meddling young brats have so damaged my peers,
  I must lay in more cork for a new creation.

Them yonder's our bishops--"to whom much is given,"
  And who're ready to take as much more as you please:
The seers of old time saw visions of heaven,
  But these holy seers see nothing but Sees.

Like old Atlas[2](the chap, in 