hich pastured near and nearer to their death
Round my day-lair; or underneath the stars
I roamed for prey, savage, insatiable,
Sniffing the paths for track of man and deer.
Amid the beasts that were my fellows then,
Met in deep jungle or by reedy jheel,
A tigress, comeliest of the forest, set
The males at war; her hide was lit with gold,
Black-broidered like the veil Yasodhara
Wore for me; hot the strife waged in that wood
With tooth and claw, while underneath a neem
The fair beast watched us bleed, thus fiercely wooed.
And I remember, at the end she came
Snarling past this and that torn forest-lord
Which I had conquered, and with fawning jaws
Licked my quick-heaving flank, and with me went
Into the wild with proud steps, amorously.
The wheel of birth and death turns low and high."

     Therefore the maid was given unto the Prince
A willing spoil; and when the stars were good--
Mesha, the Red Ram, being Lord of heaven--
The marriage feast was kept, as Sakyas use,
The golden gadi set, the carpet spread,
The wedding garlands hung, the arm-threads tied,
The sweet cake broke, the rice and attar thrown,
The two straws floated on the reddened milk,
Which, coming close, betokened "love till death;"
The seven steps taken thrice around the fire,
The gifts bestowed on holy men, the alms
And temple offerings made, the mantras sung,
The garments of the bride and bridegroom tied.
Then the grey father spake: "Worshipful Prince,
She that was ours henceforth is only thine;
Be good to her, who hath her life in thee."
Wherewith they brought home sweet Yasodhara,
With songs and trumpets, to the Prince's arms,
And love was all in all.

                       Yet not to love
Alone trusted the King; love's prison-house
Stately and beautiful he bade them build,
So that in all the earth no marvel was
Like Vishramvan, the Prince's pleasure-place.
Midway in those wide palace-grounds there rose
A verdant hill whose base Rohini bathed,
Murmuring adown from Himalay's broad feet,
To bear its tribute into Gunga's waves.
Southward a growth of tamarind trees and sal,
Thick set with pale sky-coloured ganthi flowers,
Shut out the world, save if the city's hum
Came on the wind no harsher than when bees
Hum out of sight in thickets.  Northward soared
The stainless ramps of huge Hamala's wall,
Ranged in white ranks against the blue-untrod
Infinite, wonderful--whose uplands vast,
And lifted universe of crest and crag,
Shoulder and shelf, green slope and icy horn,
Riven ravine, and splintered precipice
Led climbing thought higher and higher, until
It seemed to stand in heaven and speak with gods.
Beneath the snows dark forests spread, sharp laced
With leaping cataracts and veiled with clouds
Lower grew rose-oaks and the great fir groves
Where echoed pheasant's call and panther's cry
Clatter of wild sheep on the stones, and scream
Of circling eagles: under these the plain
Gleamed like a praying-carpet at the foot
Of those divinest altars.  'Fronting this
The builders set the bright pavilion up,
'Fair-planted on the terraced hill, with towers
On either flank and pillared cloisters round.
Its beams were carved with stories of old time--
Radha and Krishna and the sylvan girls--
Sita and Hanuman and Draupadi;
And on the middle porch God Ganesha,
With disc and hook--to bring wisdom and wealth--
Propitious sate, wreathing his sidelong trunk.
By winding ways of garden and of court
The inner gate was reached, of marble wrought,
White with pink veins; the lintel lazuli,
The threshold alabaster, and the doors
Sandalwood, cut in pictured panelling;
Whereby to lofty halls and shadowy bowers
Passed the delighted foot, on stately stairs,
Through latticed galleries, 'neath painted roofs
And clustering columns, where cool fountains--fringed
With lotus and nelumbo--danced, and fish
Gleamed through their crystal, scarlet, gold, and blue.
Great-eyed gazelles in sunny alcoves browsed
The blown red roses; birds of rainbow wing
Fluttered among the palms; doves, green and grey,
Built their safe nests on gilded cornices;
Over the shining pavements peacocks drew
The splendours of their trains, sedately watched
By milk-white herons and the small house-owls.
The plum-necked parrots swung from fruit to fruit;
The yellow sunbirds whirred from bloom to bloom,
The timid lizards on the lattice basked
Fearless, the squirrels ran to feed from hand,
For all was peace: the shy black snake, that gives
Fortune to households, sunned his sleepy coils
Under the moon-flowers, where the musk-deer played,
And brown-eyed monkeys chattered to the crows.
And all this house of love was peopled fair
With sweet attendance, so that in each part
With lovely sights were gentle faces found,
Soft speech and willing service, each one glad
To gladden, pleased at pleasure, proud to obey;
Till life glided beguiled, like a smooth stream
Banked by perpetual flowers, Yasodhara
Queen of the enchanting Court.

                           But innermost,
Beyond the richness of those hundred halls,
A secret chamber lurked, where skill had spent
All lovely fantasies to lull the mind.
The entrance of it was a cloistered square--
Roofed by the sky, and in the midst a tank--
Of milky marble built, and laid with slabs
Of milk-white marble; bordered round the tank
And on the steps, and all along the frieze
With tender inlaid work of agate-stones.
Cool as to tread in summer-time on snows
It was to loiter there; the sunbeams dropped
Their gold, and, passing into porch and niche,
Softened to shadows, silvery, pale, and dim,
As if the very Day paused and grew Eve.
In love and silence at that bower's gate;
For there beyond the gate the chamber was,
Beautiful, sweet; a wonder of the world!
Soft light from perfumed lamps through windows fell
Of nakre and stained stars of lucent film
On golden cloths outspread, and silken beds,
And heavy splendour of the purdah's fringe,
Lifted to take only the loveliest in.
Here, whether it was night or day none knew,
For always streamed that softened light, more bright
Than sunrise, but as tender as the eve's;
And always breathed sweet airs, more joy-giving
Than morning's, but as cool as midnight's breath;
And night and day lutes sighed, and night and day
Delicious foods were spread, and dewy fruits,
Sherbets new chilled with snows of Himalay,
And sweetmeats made of subtle daintiness,
With sweet tree-milk in its own ivory cup.
And night and day served there a chosen band
Of nautch girls, cup-bearers, and cymballers,
Delicate, dark-browed ministers of love,
Who fanned the sleeping eyes of the happy Prince,
And when he waked, led back his thoughts to bliss
With music whispering through the blooms, and charm
Of amorous songs and dreamy dances, linked
By chime of ankle-bells and wave of arms
And silver vina-strings; while essences
Of musk and champak and the blue haze spread
From burning spices soothed his soul again
To drowse by sweet Yasodhara; and thus
Siddartha lived forgetting.

                          Furthermore,
The King commanded that within those walls
No mention should be made of death or age,
Sorrow, or pain, or sickness.  If one drooped
In the lovely Court--her dark glance dim, her feet
Faint in the dance--the guiltless criminal
Passed forth an exile from that Paradise,
Lest he should see and suffer at her woe.
Bright-eyed intendants watched to execute
Sentence on such as spake of the harsh world
Without, where aches and plagues were, tears
     and fears,
And wail of mourners, and grim fume of pyres.
`T was treason if a thread of silver strayed
In tress of singing-girl or nautch-dancer;
And every dawn the dying rose was plucked,
The dead leaves hid, all evil sights removed
For said the King, "If he shall pass his youth
Far from such things as move to wistfulness,
And brooding on the empty eggs of thought,
The shadow of this fate, too vast for man,
May fade, belike, and I shall see him grow
To that great stature of fair sovereignty
When he shall rule all lands--if he will rule--
The King of kings and glory of his time."

     Wherefore, around that pleasant prison house
Where love was gaoler and delights its bars,
But far removed from sight--the King bade build
A massive wall, and in the wall a gate
With brazen folding-doors, which but to roll
Back on their hinges asked a hundred arms;
Also the noise of that prodigious gate
Opening was heard full half a yojana.
And inside this another gate he made,
And yet within another--through the three
Must one pass if he quit that pleasure-house.
Three mighty gates there were, bolted and barred,
And over each was set a faithful watch;
And the King's order said, "Suffer no man
To pass the gates, though he should be the Prince
This on your lives--even though it be my son."




Book The Third



In which calm home of happy life and love
Ligged our Lord Buddha, knowing not of woe,
Nor want, nor pain, nor plague, nor age, nor death,
Save as when sleepers roam dim seas in dreams,
And land awearied on the shores of day,
Bringing strange merchandise from that black voyage.
Thus ofttimes when he lay with gentle head
Lulled on the dark breasts of Yasodhara,
Her fond hands fanning slow his sleeping lids,
He would start up and cry, "My world!  Oh, world!
I hear!  I know!  I come!"  And she would ask,
"What ails my Lord?" with large eyes terrorstruck;
For at such times the pity in his look
Was awful, and his visage like a god's.
Then would he smile again to stay her tears,
And bid the vinas sound; but once they set
A stringed gourd on the sill, there where the wind
Could linger o'er its notes and play at will--
Wild music makes the wind on silver strings--
And those who lay around heard only that;
But Prince Siddartha heard the Devas play,
And to his ears they sang such words as these:--

We are the voices of the wandering wind,
Which moan for rest and rest can never find;
Lo! as the wind is so is mortal life,
A moan, a sigh, a sob, a storm, a strife.

Wherefore and whence we are ye cannot know,
Nor where life springs nor whither life doth go;
We are as ye are, ghosts from the inane,
What pleasure have we of our changeful pain?

What pleasure hast thou of thy changeless bliss?
Nay, if love lasted, there were joy in this;
But life's way is the wind's way, all these things
Are but brief voices breathed on shifting strings.

O Maya's son!  because we roam the earth
Moan we upon these strings; we make no mirth,
So many woes we see in many lands,
So many streaming eyes and wringing hands.

Yet mock we while we wail, for, could they know,
This life they cling to is but empty show;
'Twere all as well to bid a cloud to stand,
Or hold a running river with the hand.

But thou that art to save, thine hour is nigh!
The sad world waileth in its misery,
The blind world stumbleth on its round of pain;
Rise, Maya's child! wake! slumber not again!

We are the voices of the wandering wind
Wander thou, too, O Prince, thy rest to find;
Leave love for love of lovers, for woe's sake
Quit state for sorrow, and deliverance make.

So sigh we, passing o'er the silver strings,
To thee who know'st not yet of earthly things;
So say we; mocking, as we pass away,
These lovely shadows wherewith thou dost play.

     Thereafter it befell he sate at eve
Amid his beauteous Court, holding the hand
Of sweet Yasodhara, and some maid told--
With breaks of music when her rich voice dropped--
An ancient tale to speed the hour of dusk,
Of love, and of a magic horse, and lands
Wonderful, distant, where pale peoples dwelled
And where the sun at night sank into seas.
Then spake he, sighing, "Chitra brings me back.
The wind's song in the strings with that fair tale.
Give her, Yasodhara, thy pearl for thanks.
But thou, my pearl! is there so wide a world?
Is there a land which sees the great sun roll
Into the waves, and are there hearts like ours,
Countless, unknown, not happy--it may be--
Whom we might succour if we knew of them?
Ofttimes I marvel, as the Lord of day
Treads from the east his kingly road of gold,
Who first on the world's edge hath hailed his beam,
The children of the morning; oftentimes,
Even in thine arms and on thy breasts, bright wife,
Sore have I panted, at the sun's decline,
To pass with him into that crimson west
And see the peoples of the evening.
There must be many we should love--how else?
Now have I in this hour an ache, at last,
Thy soft lips cannot kiss away: oh, girl!
O Chitra! you that know of fairyland!
Where tether they that swift steed of the tale?
My palace for one day upon his back,
To ride and ride and see the spread of the earth!
Nay, if I had yon callow vulture's plumes--
The carrion heir of wider realms than mine--
How would I stretch for topmost Himalay,
Light where the rose-gleam lingers on those snows,
And strain my gaze with searching what is round!
Why have I never seen and never sought?
Tell me what lies beyond our brazen gates."

     Then one replied, "The city first, fair Prince!
The temples, and the gardens, and the groves,
And then the fields, and afterwards fresh fields,
With nullahs, maidans, jungle, koss on koss;
And next King Bimbasara's realm, and then
The vast flat world, with crores on crores of folk."
"Good," said Siddartha, "let the word be sent
That Channa yoke my chariot--at noon
Tomorrow I shall ride and see beyond."

     Whereof they told the King: "Our Lord, thy son,
Wills that his chariot be yoked at noon,
That he may ride abroad and see mankind."

     "Yea!" spake the careful King, "'tis time he see!
But let the criers go about and bid
My city deck itself, so there be met
No noisome sight; and let none blind or maimed,
None that is sick or stricken deep in years,
No leper, and no feeble folk come forth."
Therefore the stones were swept, and up and down
The water-carriers sprinkled all the streets
From spirting skins, the housewives scattered fresh
Red powder on their thresholds, strung new wreaths,
And trimmed the tulsi-bush before their doors.
The paintings on the walls were heightened up
With liberal brush, the trees set thick with flags,
The idols gilded; in the four-went ways
Suryadeva and the great gods shone
'Mid shrines of leaves; so that the city seemed
A capital of some enchanted land.
Also the criers passed, with drum and gong,
Proclaiming loudly, "Ho! all citizens,
The King commands that there be seen today
No evil sight: let no one blind or maimed,
None that is sick or stricken deep in years,
No leper, and no feeble folk go forth.
Let none, too, burn his dead nor bring them out
Till nightfall.  Thus Suddhodana commands."

     So all was comely and the houses trim
Throughout Kapilavastu, while the Prince
Came forth in painted car, which two steers drew,
Snow-white, with swinging dewlaps and huge humps
Wrinkled against the carved and lacquered yoke.
Goodly it was to mark the people's joy
Greeting their Prince; and glad.  Siddartha waxed
At sight of all those liege and friendly folk
Bright-clad and laughing as if life were good.
"Fair is the world," he said, "it likes me well!
And light and kind these men that are not kings,
And sweet my sisters here, who toil and tend;
What have I done for these to make them thus?
Why, if I love them, should those children know?
I pray take up yon pretty Sakya boy
Who flung us flowers, and let him ride with me.
How good it is to reign in realms like this!
How simple pleasure is, if these be pleased
Because I come abroad!  How many things
I need not if such little households hold
Enough to make our city full of smiles!
Drive, Channa! through the gates, and let me see
More of this gracious world I have not known."

     So passed they through the gates, a joyous crowd
Thronging about the wheels, whereof some ran
Before the oxen, throwing wreaths, some stroked
Their silken flanks, some brought them rice and cakes,
All crying, "Jai! jai! for our noble Prince!"
Thus all the path was kept with gladsome looks
And filled with fair sights--for the King's word was
That such should be--when midway in the road,
Slow tottering from the hovel where he hid,
Crept forth a wretch in rags, haggard and foul,
An old, old man, whose shrivelled skin, suntanned,
Clung like a beast's hide to his fleshless bones.
Bent was his back with load of many days,
His eyepits red with rust of ancient tears,
His dim orbs blear with rheum, his toothless jaws
Wagging with palsy and the fright to see
So many and such joy.  One skinny hand
Clutched a worn staff to prop his quavering limbs,
And one was pressed upon the ridge of ribs
Whence came in gasps the heavy painful breath.
"Alms!" moaned he, "give, good people! for I die
Tomorrow or the next day!" then the cough
Choked him, but still he stretched his palm, and stood
Blinking, and groaning 'mid his spasms, "Alms!"
Then those around had wrenched his feeble feet
Aside, and thrust him from the road again,
Saying, "The Prince! dost see? get to thy lair!"
But that Siddartha cried, "Let be! let be!
Channa! what thing is this who seems a man,
Yet surely only seems, being so bowed,
So miserable, so horrible, so sad?
Are men born sometimes thus?  What meaneth he
Moaning 'tomorrow or next day I die?'
Finds he no food that so his bones jut forth?
What woe hath happened to this piteous one?"
Then answer made the charioteer, "Sweet Prince!
This is no other than an aged man.
Some fourscore years ago his back was straight,
His eye bright, and his body goodly: now
The thievish years have sucked his sap away,
Pillaged his strength and filched his will and wit;
His lamp has lost its oil, the wick burns black;
What life he keeps is one poor lingering spark
Which flickers for the finish: such is age;
Why should your Highness heed?"
Then spake the Prince
"But shall this come to others, or to all,
Or is it rare that one should be as he?"
"Most noble," answered Channa, "even as he,
Will all these grow if they shall live so long."
"But," quoth the Prince, "if I shall live as long
Shall I be thus; and if Yasodhara
Live fourscore years, is this old age for her,
Jalini, little Hasta, Gautami,
And Gunga, and the others?"  "Yea, great Sir!"
The charioteer replied.  Then spake the Prince
"Turn back, and drive me to my house again!
I have seen that I did not think to see."

     Which pondering, to his beauteous Court returned
Wistful Siddartha, sad of mien and mood;
Nor tasted he the white cakes nor the fruits
Spread for the evening feast, nor once looked up
While the best palace-dancers strove to charm
Nor spake--save one sad thing--when wofully
Yasodhara sank to his feet and wept,
Sighing, "Hath not my Lord comfort in me?"
"Ah, Sweet!" he said, "such comfort that my soul
Aches, thinking it must end, for it will end,
And we shall both grow old, Yasodhara!
Loveless, unlovely, weak, and old, and bowed.
Nay, though we locked up love and life with lips
So close that night and day our breaths grew one
Time would thrust in between to filch away
My passion and thy grace, as black Night steals
The rose-gleams from you peak, which fade to grey
And are not seen to fade.  This have I found,
And all my heart is darkened with its dread,
And all my heart is fixed to think how Love
Might save its sweetness from the slayer, Time,
Who makes men old."  So through that night he sate
Sleepless, uncomforted.

                    And all that night
The King Suddhodana dreamed troublous dreams.
The first fear of his vision was a flag
Broad, glorious, glistening with a golden sun,
The mark of Indra; but a strong wind blew,
Rending its folds divine, and dashing it
Into the dust; whereat a concourse came
Of shadowy Ones, who took the spoiled silk up
And bore it eastward from the city gates.
The second fear was ten huge elephants,
With silver tusks and feet that shook the earth,
Trampling the southern road in mighty march;
And he who sate upon the foremost beast
Was the King's son--the others followed him.
The third fear of the vision was a car,
Shining with blinding light, which four steeds drew,
Snorting white smoke and champing fiery foam;
And in the car the Prince Siddhartha sate.
The fourth fear was a wheel which turned and turned,
With nave of burning gold and jewelled spokes,
And strange things written on the binding tire,
Which seemed both fire and music as it whirled.
The fifth fear was a mighty drum, set down
Midway between the city and the hills,
On which the Prince beat with an iron mace,
So that the sound pealed like a thunderstorm,
Rolling around the sky and far away.
The sixth fear was a tower, which rose and rose
High o'er the city till its stately head
Shone crowned with clouds, and on the top the Prince
Stood, scattering from both hands, this way and that,
Gems of most lovely light, as if it rained
Jacynths and rubies; and the whole world came,
Striving to seize those treasures as they fell
Towards the four quarters.  But the seventh fear was
A noise of wailing, and behold six men
Who wept and gnashed their teeth, and laid their palms
Upon their mouths, walking disconsolate.

     These seven fears made the vision of his sleep,
But none of all his wisest dream-readers
Could tell their meaning.  Then the King was wroth,
Saying, "There cometh evil to my house,
And none of ye have wit to help me know
What the great gods portend sending me this."
So in the city men went sorrowful
Because the King had dreamed seven signs of fear
Which none could read; but to the gate there came
An aged man, in robe of deer-skin clad,
By guise a hermit, known to none; he cried,
"Bring me before the King, for I can read
The vision of his sleep"; who, when he heard
The sevenfold mysteries of the midnight dream,
Bowed reverent and said: "O Maharaj!
I hail this favoured House, whence shall arise
A wider-reaching splendour than the sun's!
Lo! all these seven fears are seven joys,
Whereof the first, where thou didst see a flag--
Broad, glorious, gilt with Indra's badge--cast down
And carried out, did signify the end
Of old faiths and beginning of the new,
For there is change with gods not less than men,
And as the days pass kalpas pass at length.
The ten great elephants that shook the earth
The ten great gifts of wisdom signify,
In strength whereof the Prince shall quit his state
And shake the world with passage of the Truth.
The four flame-breathing horses of the car
Are those four fearless virtues which shall bring
Thy son from doubt and gloom to gladsome light;
The wheel that turned with nave of burning gold
Was that most precious Wheel of perfect Law
Which he shall turn in sight of all the world.
The mighty drum whereon the Prince did beat,
Till the sound filled all lands, doth signify
The thunder of the preaching of the Word
Which he shall preach; the tower that grew to heaven
The growing of the Gospel of this Buddh
Sets forth; and those rare jewels scattered thence
The untold treasures are of that good Law
To gods and men dear and desirable.
Such is the interpretation of the tower;
But for those six men weeping with shut mouths,
They are the six chief teachers whom thy son
Shall, with bright truth and speech unanswerable,
Convince of foolishness.  O King! rejoice;
The fortune of my Lord the Prince is more
Than kingdoms, and his hermit-rags will be
Beyond fine cloths of gold.  This was thy dream!
And in seven nights and days these things shall fall."
So spake the holy man, and lowly made
The eight prostrations, touching thrice the ground;
Then turned and passed; but when the King bade send

     A rich gift after him, the messengers
Brought word, "We came to where he entered in
At Chandra's temple, but within was none
Save a grey owl which fluttered from the shrine."
The gods come sometimes thus.

                       But the sad King
Marvelled, and gave command that new delights
Be compassed to enthrall Siddartha's heart
Amid those dancers of his pleasure-house,
Also he set at all the brazen doors
A doubled guard.

               Yet who shall shut out Fate?

     For once again the spirit of the Prince
Was moved to see this world beyond his gates,
This life of man, so pleasant if its waves
Ran not to waste and woful finishing
In Time's dry sands.  "I pray you let me view
Our city as it is," such was his prayer
To King Suddhodana.  "Your Majesty
In tender heed hath warned the folk before
To put away ill things and common sights,
And make their faces glad to gladden me,
And all the causeways gay; yet have I learned
This is not daily life, and if I stand
Nearest, my father, to the realm and thee,
Fain would I know the people and the streets,
Their simple usual ways, and workday deeds,
And lives which those men live who are not kings.
Give me good leave, dear Lord, to pass unknown
Beyond my happy gardens; I shall come
The more contented to their peace again,
Or wiser, father, if not well content.
Therefore, I pray thee, let me go at will
Tomorrow, with my servants, through the streets."
And the King said, among his Ministers
"Belike this second flight may mend the first.
Note how the falcon starts at every sight
New from his hood, but what a quiet eye
Cometh of freedom; let my son see all,
And bid them bring me tidings of his mind."

     Thus on the morrow, when the noon was come,
The Prince and Channa passed beyond the gates,
Which opened to the signet of the King,
Yet knew not they who rolled the great doors back
It was the King's son in that merchant's robe,
And in the clerkly dress his charioteer.
Forth fared they by the common way afoot,
Mingling with all the Sakya citizens,
Seeing the glad and sad things of the town:
The painted streets alive with hum of noon,
The traders cross-legged 'mid their spice and grain,
The buyers with their money in the cloth,
The war of words to cheapen this or that,
The shout to clear the road, the huge stone wheels,
The strong slow oxen and their rustling loads,
The singing bearers with the palanquins,
The broad-necked hamals sweating in the sun,
The housewives bearing water from the well
With balanced chatties, and athwart their hips
The black-eyed babes; the fly-swarmed sweetmeat shops,
The weaver at his loom, the cotton-bow
Twangling, the millstones grinding meal, the dogs
Prowling for orts, the skilful armourer
With tong and hammer linking shirts of mail,
The blacksmith with a mattock and a spear
Reddening together in his coals, the school
Where round their Guru, in a grave half-moon,
The Sakya children sang the mantra through,
And learned the greater and the lesser gods;
The dyers stretching waistcloths in the sun
Wet from the vats--orange, and rose, and green;
The soldiers clanking past with swords and shields,
The camel-drivers rocking on the humps,
The Brahman proud, the martial Kshatriya,
The humble toiling Sudra; here a throng
Gathered to watch some chattering snake-tamer
Wind round his wrist the living jewellery
Of asp and nag, or charm the hooded death
To angry dance with drone of beaded gourd;
There a long line of drums and horns, which went,
With steeds gay painted and silk canopies,
To bring the young bride home; and here a wife
Stealing with cakes and garlands to the god
To pray her husband's safe return from trade,
Or beg a boy next birth; hard by the booths
Where the sweat potters beat the noisy brass
For lamps and lotas; thence, by temple walls
And gateways, to the river and the bridge
Under the city walls.

                           These had they passed
When from the roadside moaned a mournful voice,
"Help, masters! lift me to my feet; oh, help!
Or I shall die before I reach my house!"
A stricken wretch it was, whose quivering frame,
Caught by some deadly plague, lay in the dust
Writhing, with fiery purple blotches specked;
The chill sweat beaded on his brow, his mouth
Was dragged awry with twichings of sore pain,
The wild eyes swam with inward agony.
Gasping, he clutched the grass to rise, and rose
Half-way, then sank, with quaking feeble limbs
And scream of terror, crying, "Ah, the pain!
Good people, help!" whereon Siddartha ran,
Lifted the woful man with tender hands,
With sweet looks laid the sick head on his knee,
And while his soft touch comforted the wretch,
Asked: "Brother, what is ill with thee? what harm
Hath fallen? wherefore canst thou not arise?
Why is it, Channa, that he pants and moans,
And gasps to speak and sighs so pitiful?"
Then spake the charioteer: "Great Prince! this man
Is smitten with some pest; his elements
Are all confounded; in his veins the blood,
Which ran a wholesome river, leaps and boils
A fiery flood; his heart, which kept good time,
Beats like an ill-played drum-skin, quick and slow;
His sinews slacken like a bow-string slipped;
The strength is gone from ham, and loin, and neck,
And all the grace and joy of manhood fled;
This is a sick man with the fit upon him.
See how be plucks and plucks to seize his grief,
And rolls his bloodshot orbs and grinds his teeth,
And draws his breath as if 'twere choking smoke.
Lo! now he would be dead, but shall not die
Until the plague hath had its work in him,
Killing the nerves which die before the life;
Then, when his strings have cracked with agony
And all his bones are empty of the sense
To ache, the plague will quit and light elsewhere.
Oh, sir! it is not good to hold him so!
The harm may pass, and strike thee, even thee."
But spake the Prince, still comforting the man,
"And are there others, are there many thus?
Or might it be to me as now with him?"
"Great Lord!" answered the charioteer, "this comes
In many forms to all men; griefs and wounds,
Sickness and tetters, palsies, leprosies,
Hot fevers, watery wastings, issues, blains
Befall all flesh and enter everywhere."
"Come such ills unobserved?" the Prince inquired.
And Channa said: "Like the sly snake they come
That stings unseen; like the striped murderer,
Who waits to spring from the Karunda bush,
Hiding beside the jungle path; or like
The lightning, striking these and sparing those,
As chance may send."

                   "Then all men live in fear?"
"So live they, Prince!"

                 "And none can say, `I sleep
Happy and whole tonight, and so shall wake'?"
"None say it."

"And the end of many aches,
Which come unseen, and will come when they come,
Is this, a broken body and sad mind,
And so old age?"

                   "Yea, if men last as long."

"But if they cannot bear their agonies,
Or if they will not bear, and seek a term;
Or if they bear, and be, as this man is,
Too weak except for groans, and so still live,
And growing old, grow older, then what end?"

"They die, Prince."

                 "Die?"

        "Yea, at the last comes death,
In whatsoever way, whatever hour.
Some few grow old, most suffer and fall sick,
But all must die--behold, where comes the Dead!"

Then did Siddartha raise his eyes, and see
Fast pacing towards the river brink a band
Of wailing people, foremost one who swung
An earthen bowl with lighted coals, behind
The kinsmen shorn, with mourning marks, ungirt,
Crying aloud, "O Rama, Rama, hear!
Call upon Rama, brothers"; next the bier,
Knit of four poles with bamboos interlaced,
Whereon lay, stark and stiff, feet foremost, lean,
Chapfallen, sightless, hollow-flanked, a-grin,
Sprinkled with red and yellow dust--the Dead,
Whom at the four-went ways they turned head first,
And crying "Rama, Rama!" carried on
To where a pile was reared beside the stream;
Thereon they laid him, building fuel up--
Good sleep hath one that slumbers on that bed!
He shall not wake for cold albeit he lies
Naked to all the airs--for soon they set
The red flame to the corners four, which crept,
And licked, and flickered, finding out his flesh
And feeding on it with swift hissing tongues,
And crackle of parched skin, and snap of joint;
Till the fat smoke thinned and the ashes sank
Scarlet and grey, with here and there a bone
White midst the grey--the total of the man.

     Then spake the Prince, "Is this the end which comes
To all who live?"

               "This is the end that comes
To all," quoth Channa; "he upon the pyre--
Whose remnants are so petty that the crows
Caw hungrily, then quit the fruitless feast--
Ate, drank, laughed, loved, and lived, and liked
     life well.
Then came--who knows?--some gust of junglewind,
A stumble on the path, a taint in the tank,
A snake's nip, half a span of angry steel,
A chill, a fishbone, or a falling tile,
And life was over and the man is dead.
No appetites, no pleasures, and no pains
Hath such; the kiss upon his lips is nought,
The fire-scorch nought; he smelleth not his flesh
A-roast, nor yet the sandal and the spice
They burn; the taste is emptied from his mouth,
The hearing of his ears is clogged, the sight
Is blinded in his eyes; those whom he loved
Wail desolate, for even that must go,
The body, which was lamp unto the life,
Or worms will have a horrid feast of it.
Here is the common destiny of flesh.
The high and low, the good and bad, must die,
And then, 't is taught, begin anew and live
Somewhere, somehow,--who knows?--and so again
The pangs, the parting, and the lighted pile--
Such is man's round."

                  But lo! Siddartha turned
Eyes gleaming with divine tears to the sky,
Eyes lit with heavenly pity to the earth;
From sky to earth he looked, from earth to sky,
As if his spirit sought in lonely flight
Some far-off vision, linking this and that,
Lost, past, but searchable, but seen, but known.
Then cried he, while his lifted countenance
Glowed with the burning passion of a love
Unspeakable, the ardour of a hope
Boundless, insatiate: "Oh! suffering world,
Oh! known and unknown of my common flesh,
Caught in this common net of death and woe,
And life which binds to both!  I see, I feel
The vastness of the agony of earth,
The vainness of its joys, the mockery
Of all its best, the anguish of its worst;
Since pleasures end in pain, and youth in age,
And love in loss, and life in hateful death,
And death in unknown lives, which will but yoke
Men to their wheel again to whirl the round
Of false delights and woes that are not false.
Me too this lure hath cheated, so it seemed
Lovely to live, and life a sunlit stream
For ever flowing in a changeless peace;
Whereas the foolish ripple of the flood
Dances so lightly down by bloom and lawn
Only to pour its crystal quicklier
Into the foul salt sea.  The veil is rent
Which blinded me!  I am as all these men
Who cry upon their gods and are not heard
Or are not heeded--yet there must be aid!
For them and me and all there must be help!
Perchance the gods have need of help themselves
Being so feeble that when sad lips cry
They cannot save!  I would not let one cry
Whom I could save!  How can it be that Brahm
Would make a world and keep it miserable,
Since, if all-powerful, he leaves it so,
He is not good, and if not powerful,
He is not God?--Channa! lead home again!
It is enough I mine eyes have seen enough!"

      Which when the King heard, at the gates he set
A triple guard, and bade no man should pass
By day or night, issuing or entering in,
Until the days were numbered of that dream.




Book The Fourth



But when the days were numbered, then befell
The parting of our Lord--which was to be--
Whereby came wailing in the Golden Home,
Woe to the King and sorrow o'er the land,
But for all flesh deliverance, and that Law
Which whoso hears, the same shall make him free.

     Softly the Indian night sinks on the plains
At full moon in the month of Chaitra Shud,
When mangoes redden and the asoka buds
Sweeten the breeze, and Rama's birthday comes,
And all the fields are glad and all the towns.
Softly that night fell over Vishramvan,
Fragrant with blooms and jewelled thick with stars,
And cool with mountain airs sighing adown
From snow-flats on Himala high-outspread;
For the moon swung above the eastern peaks,
Climbing the spangled vault, and lighting clear
Robini's ripples and the hills and plains,
And all the sleeping land, and near at hand
Silvering those roof-tops of the pleasure-house,
Where nothing stirred nor sign of watching was,
Save at the outer gates, whose warders cried
Mudra, the watchword, and the countersign
Angana, and the watch-drums beat a round;
Whereat the earth lay still, except for call
Of prowling jackals, and the ceaseless trill
Of crickets on the garden grounds.

                                  Within--
Where the moon glittered through the laceworked stone,
Lighting the walls of pearl-shell and the floors
Paved with veined marble--softly fell her beams
On such rare company of Indian girls,
It seemed some chamber sweet in Paradise
Where Devis rested.  All the chosen ones
Of Prince Siddartha's pleasure-home were there,
The brightest and most faithful of the Court,
Each form so lovely in the peace of sleep,
That you had said "This is the pearl of all!"
Save that beside her or beyond her lay
Fairer and fairer, till the pleasured gaze
Roamed o'er that feast of beauty as it roams
From gem to gem in some great goldsmith-work,
Caught by each colour till the next is seen.
With careless grace they lay, their soft brown limbs
Part hidden, part revealed; their glossy hair
Bound back with gold or flowers, or flowing loose
In black waves down the shapely nape and neck.
Lulled into pleasant dreams by happy toils,
They slept, no wearier than jewelled birds
Which sing and love all day, then under wing
Fold head till morn bids sing and love again.
Lamps of chased silver swinging from the roof
In silver chains, and fed with perfumed oils,
Made with the moonbeams tender lights and shades,
Whereby were seen the perfect lines of grace,
The bosom's placid heave, the soft stained palms
Drooping or clasped, the faces fair and dark,
The great arched brows, the parted lips, the teeth
Like pearls a merchant picks to make a string,
The satin-lidded eyes, with lashes dropped
Sweeping the delicate cheeks, the rounded wrists
The smooth small feet with bells and bangles decked,
Tinkling low music where some sleeper moved,
Breaking her smiling dream of some new dance
Praised by the Prince, some magic ring to find,
Some fairy love-gift.  Here one lay full-length,
Her vina by her cheek, and in its strings
The little fingers still all interlaced
As when the last notes of her light song played
Those radiant eyes to sleep and sealed her own.
Another slumbered folding in her arms
A desert-antelope, its slender head
Buried with back-sloped horns between her breasts
Soft nestling; it was eating--when both drowsed--
Red roses, and her loosening hand still held
A rose half-mumbled, while a rose-leaf curled
Between the deer's lips.  Here two friends had dozed
Together, wearing mogra-buds, which bound
Their sister-sweetness in a starry chain,
Linking them limb to limb and heart to heart,
One pillowed on the blossoms, one on her.
Another, ere she slept, was stringing stones
To make a necklet--agate, onyx, sard,
Coral, and moonstone--round her wrist it gleamed
A coil of splendid colour, while she held,
Unthreaded yet, the bead to close it up
Green turkis, carved with golden gods and scripts.
Lulled by the cadence of the garden stream,
Thus lay they on the clustered carpets, each
A girlish rose with shut leaves, waiting dawn
To open and make daylight beautiful.
This was the antechamber of the Prince;
But at the purdah's fringe the sweetest slept--
Gunga and Gotami--chief ministers
In that still house of love.

                        The purdah hung,
Crimson and blue, with broidered threads of gold,
Across a portal carved in sandal-wood,
Whence by three steps the way was to the bower
Of inmost splendour, and the marriage-couch
Set on a dais soft with silver cloths,
Where the foot fell as though it trod on piles
Of neem-blooms.  All the walls, were plates of pearl,
Cut shapely from the shells of Lanka's wave;
And o'er the alabaster roof there ran
Rich inlayings of lotus and of bird,
Wrought in skilled work of lazulite and jade,
Jacynth and jasper; woven round the dome,
And down the sides, and all about the frames
Wherein were set the fretted lattices,
Through which there breathed, with moonlight and
     cool airs,
Scents from the shell-flowers and the jasmine sprays;
Not bringing thither grace or tenderness
Sweeter than shed from those fair presences
Within the place--the beauteous Sakya Prince,
And hers, the stately, bright Yasodhara.

     Half risen from her soft nest at his side,
The chuddah fallen to her waist, her brow
Laid in both palms, the lovely Princess leaned
With heaving bosom and fast falling tears.
Thrice with her lips she touched Siddartha's hand,
And at the third kiss moaned: "Awake, my Lord!
Give me the comfort of thy speech!"  Then he--
"What is with thee, O my life?" but still
She moaned anew before the words would come;
Then spake: "'Alas, my Prince!  I sank to sleep
Most happy, for the babe I bear of thee
Quickened this eve, and at my heart there beat
That double pulse of life and joy and love
Whose happy music lulled me, but--aho!--
In slumber I beheld three sights of dread,
With thought whereof my heart is throbbing yet.
I saw a white bull with wide branching horns,
A lord of pastures, pacing through the streets,
Bearing upon his front a gem which shone
As if some star had dropped to glitter there,
Or like the kantha-stone the great Snake keeps
To make bright daylight underneath the earth.
Slow through the streets toward the gates he paced,
And none could stay him, though there came a voice
From Indra's temple, 'If ye stay him not,
The glory of the city goeth forth.
Yet none could stay him.  Then I wept aloud,
And locked my arms about his neck, and strove,
And bade them bar the gates; but that ox-king
Bellowed, and, lightly tossing free his crest,
Broke from my clasp, and bursting through the bars,
Trampled the warders down and passed away.
The neat strange dream was this: Four Presences
Splendid with shining eyes, so beautiful
They seemed the Regents of the Earth who dwell
On Mount Sumeru, lighting from the sky
With retinue of countless heavenly ones,
Swift swept unto our city, where I saw
The golden flag of Indra on the gate
Flutter and fall; and lo! there rose instead
A glorious banner, all the folds whereof
Rippled with flashing fire of rubies sewn
Thick on the silver threads, the rays wherefrom
Set forth new words and weighty sentences
Whose message made all living creatures glad;
And from the east the wind of sunrise blew
With tender waft, opening those jewelled scrolls
So that all flesh might read; and wondrous blooms
Plucked in what clime I know not-fell in showers,
Coloured as none are coloured in our groves."

     Then spake the Prince: "All this, my Lotus-flower!
Was good to see."

          "Ay, Lord," the Princess said,
"Save that it ended with a voice of fear
Crying, `The time is nigh! the time is nigh!'
Thereat the third dream came; for when I sought
Thy side, sweet Lord! ah, on our bed there lay
An unpressed pillow and an empty robe--
Nothing of thee but those!---nothing of thee,
Who art my life and light, my king, my world!
And sleeping still I rose, and sleeping saw
Thy belt of pearls, tied here below my breasts,
Change to a stinging snake; my ankle-rings
Fall off, my golden bangles part and fall;
The jasmines in my hair wither to dust;
While this our bridal-couch sank to the ground,
And something rent the crimson purdah down;
Then far away I heard the white bull low,
And far away the embroidered banner flap,
And once again that cry, 'The time is come!'
But with that cry--which shakes my spirit still--
I woke!  O Prince! what may such visions mean
Except I die, or--worse than any death--
Thou shouldst forsake me or be taken?"

                          Sweet
As the last smile of sunset was the look
Siddartha bent upon his weeping wife.
"Comfort thee, dear!" he said, "if comfort lives
In changeless love; for though thy dreams may be
Shadows of things to come, and though the gods
Are shaken in their seats, and though the world
Stands nigh, perchance, to know some way of help,
Yet, whatsoever fall to thee and me,
Be sure I loved and love Yasodhara.
Thou knowest how I muse these many moons,
Seeking to save the sad earth I have seen;
And when the time comes, that which will be will.
But if my soul yearns sore for souls unknown,
And if I grieve for griefs which are not mine,
Judge how my high-winged thoughts must hover here
O'er all these lives that share and sweeten mine
So dear! and thine the dearest, gentlest, best,
And nearest.  Ah, thou mother of my babe!
Whose body mixed with mine for this fair hope,
When most my spirit wanders, ranging round
The lands and seas--as full of ruth for men
As the far-flying dove is full of ruth
For her twin nestlings--ever it has come
Home with glad wing and passionate plumes to thee,
Who art the sweetness of my kind best seen,
The utmost of their good, the tenderest
Of all their tenderness, mine most of all.
Therefore, whatever after this betide,
Bethink thee of that lordly bull which lowed,
That jewelled banner in thy dreams which waved
Its folds departing, and of this be sure,
Always I loved and always love thee well,
And what I sought for all sought most for thee.
But thou, take comfort; and, if sorrow falls,
Take comfort still in deeming there may be
A way of peace on earth by woes of ours;
And have with this embrace what faithful love
Can think of thanks or frame for benison--
Too little, seeing love's strong self is weak--
Yet kiss me on the mouth, and drink these words
From heart to heart therewith, that thou mayst know--
What others will not--that I loved thee most
Because I loved so well all living souls.
Now, Princess! rest, for I will rise and watch."

     Then in her tears she slept, but sleeping sighed--
As if that vision passed again--"The time!
The time is come!"  Whereat Siddartha turned,
And, lo! the moon shone by the Crab! the stars
In that same silver order long foretold
Stood ranged to say: "This is the night!--choose thou
The way of greatness or the way of good
To reign a King of kings, or wander lone,
Crownless and homeless, that the world be helped."
Moreover, with the whispers of the gloom
Came to his ears again that warning song,
As when the Devas spoke upon the wind:
And surely gods were round about the place
Watching our Lord, who watched the shining stars.

     "I will depart," he spake; "the hour is come!
Thy tender lips, dear sleeper, summon me
To that which saves the earth but sunders us;
And in the silence of yon sky I read
My fated message flashing.  Unto this
Came I, and unto this all nights and days
Have led me; for I will not have that crown
Which may be mine: I lay aside those realms
Which wait the gleaming of my naked sword
My chariot shall not roll with bloody wheels
From victory to victory, till earth
Wears the red record of my name.  I choose
To tread its paths with patient, stainless feet,
Making its dust my bed, its loneliest wastes
My dwelling, and its meanest things my mates:
Clad in no prouder garb than outcasts wear,
Fed with no meats save what the charitable
Give of their will, sheltered by no more pomp
Than the dim cave lends or the jungle-bush,
This will I do because the woful cry
Of life and all flesh living cometh up
Into my ears, and all my soul is full
Of pity for the sickness of this world;
Which I will heal, if healing may be found
By uttermost renouncing and strong strife.
For which of all the great and lesser gods
Have power or pity?  Who hath seen them--who?
What have they wrought to help their worshippers?
How hath it steaded man to pray, and pay
Tithes of the corn and oil, to chant the charms,
To slay the shrieking sacrifice, to rear
The stately fane, to feed the priests, and call
On Vishnu, Shiva, Surya, who save
None--not the worthiest--from the griefs that teach
Those litanies of flattery and fear
Ascending day by day, like wasted smoke?
Hath any of my brothers 'scaped thereby
The aches of life, the stings of love and loss,
The fiery fever and the ague-shake,
The slow, dull sinking into withered age,
The horrible dark death--and what beyond
Waits--till the whirling wheel comes up again,
And new lives bring new sorrows to be borne,
New generations for the new desires
Which have their end in the old mockeries?
Hath any of my tender sisters found
Fruit of the fast or harvest of the hymn,
Or bought one pang the less at bearing-time
For white curds offered and trim tulsi-leaves?
Nay; it may be some of the gods are good
And evil some, but all in action weak;
Both pitiful and pitiless, and both
As men are--bound upon this wheel of change,
Knowing the former and the after lives.
For so our scriptures truly seem to teach,
That--once, and wheresoe'er, and whence begun--
Life runs its rounds of living, climbing up
From mote, and gnat, and worm, reptile, and fish,
Bird and shagged beast, man, demon, Deva, God,
To clod and mote again; so are we kin
To all that is; and thus, if one might save
Man from his curse, the whole wide world should share
The lightened horror of this ignorance
Whose shadow is chill fear, and cruelty
Its bitter pastime.  Yea, if one might save!
And means must be!  There must be refuge!"

           "Men
Perished in winter-winds till one smote fire
From flint-stones coldly hiding what they held,
The red spark treasured from the kindling sun.
They gorged on flesh like wolves, till one sowed corn,
Which grew a weed, yet makes the life of man;
They mowed and babbled till some tongue struck speech,
And patient fingers framed the lettered sound.
What good gift have my brothers but it came
From search and strife and loving sacrifice?
If one, then, being great and fortunate,
Rich, dowered with health and ease, from birth designed
To rule--if he would rule--a King of kings;
If one, not tired with life's long day, but glad
I' the freshness of its morning, one not cloyed
With love's delicious feasts, but hungry still;
If one not worn and wrinkled, sadly sage,
But joyous in the glory and the grace
That mix with evils here, and free to choose
Earth's loveliest at his will: one even as I,
Who ache not, lack not, grieve not, save with griefs
Which are not mine, except as I am man;--
If such a one, having so much to give,
Gave all, laying it down for love of men.
And thenceforth spent himself to search for truth,
Wringing the secret of deliverance forth,
Whether it lurk in hells or hide in heavens,
Or hover, unrevealed, nigh unto all:
Surely at last, far off, sometime, somewhere,
The veil would lift for his deep-searching eyes,
The road would open for his painful feet,
That should be won for which he lost the world,
And Death might find him conqueror of death.
This will I do, who have a realm to lose,
Because I love my realm, because my heart
Beats with each throb of all the hearts that ache,
Known and unknown, these that are mine and those
Which shall be mine, a thousand million more
Saved by this sacrifice I offer now.
Oh, summoning stars!  Oh, mournful earth
For thee and thine I lay aside my youth,
My throne, my joys, my golden days, my nights,
My happy palace--and thine arms, sweet Queen!
Harder to put aside than all the rest!
Yet thee, too, I shall save, saving this earth;
And that which stirs within thy tender womb,
My child, the hidden blossom of our loves,
Whom if I wait to bless my mind will fail.
Wife! child! father! and people! ye must share
A little while the anguish of this hour
That light may break and all flesh learn the Law.
Now am I fixed, and now I will depart,
Never to come again till what I seek
Be found--if fervent search and strife avail."

     So with his brow he touched her feet, and bent
The farewell of fond eyes, unutterable,
Upon her sleeping face, still wet with tears;
And thrice around the bed in reverence,
As though it were an altar, softly stepped
With clasped hands laid upon his beating heart,
"For never," spake he, "lie I there again!"
And thrice he made to go, but thrice came back,
So strong her beauty was, so large his love
Then, o'er his head drawing his cloth, he turned
And raised the purdah's edge.

                There drooped, close-hushed,
In such sealed sleep as water-lilies know,
The lovely garden of his Indian girls;
Those twin dark-petalled lotus-buds of all--
Gunga and Gotami--on either side,
And those, their silk-leaved sisterhood, beyond.
"Pleasant ye are to me, sweet friends!" he said,
"And dear to leave; yet if I leave ye not
What else will come to all of us save eld
Without assuage and death without avail?
Lo! as ye lie asleep so must ye lie
A-dead; and when the rose dies where are gone
Its scent and splendour? when the lamp is drained
Whither is fled the flame? Press heavy, Night!
Upon their down-dropped lids and seal their lips,
That no tear stay me and no faithful voice.
For all the brighter that these made my life,
The bitterer it is that they and I,
And all, should live as trees do--so much spring,
Such and such rains and frosts, such wintertimes,
And then dead leaves, with maybe spring again,
Or axe-stroke at the root.  This will not I,
Whose life here was a god's!--this would not I,
Though all my days were godlike, while men moan
Under their darkness.  Therefore farewell, friends!
While life is good to give, I give, and go
To seek deliverance and that unknown Light!"

      Then, lightly treading where those sleepers lay,
Into the night Siddartha passed: its eyes,
The watchful stars, looked love on him: its breath,
The wandering wind, kissed his robe's fluttered fringe;
The garden-blossoms, folded for the dawn,
Opened their velvet hearts to waft him scents
From pink and purple censers: o'er the land,
From Himalay unto the Indian Sea,
A tremor spread, as if earth's soul beneath
Stirred with an unknown hope; and holy books--
Which tell the story of our Lord--say, too,
That rich celestial musics thrilled the air
From hosts on hosts of shining ones, who thronged
Eastward and westward, making bright the night
Northward and southward, making glad the ground.
Also those four dread Regents of the Earth,
Descending at the doorway, two by two,--
With their bright legions of Invisibles
In arms of sapphire, silver, gold, and pearl--
Watched with joined hands the Indian Prince, who stood,
His tearful eyes raised to the stars, and lips
Close-set with purpose of prodigious love.

     Then strode he forth into the gloom and cried,
"Channa, awake! and bring out Kantaka!"

     "What would my Lord?" the charioteer replied--
Slow-rising from his place beside the gate
"To ride at night when all the ways are dark?"

     "Speak low," Siddartha said, "and bring my horse,
For now the hour is come when I should quit
This golden prison where my heart lives caged
To find the truth; which henceforth I will seek,
For all men's sake, until the truth be found."

     "Alas! dear Prince," answered the charioteer,
"Spake then for nought those wise and holy men
Who cast the stars and bade us wait the time
When King Suddhodana's great son should rule
Realms upon realms, and be a Lord of lords?
Wilt thou ride hence and let the rich world slip
Out of thy grasp, to hold a beggar's bowl?
Wilt thou go forth into the friendless waste
That hast this Paradise of pleasures here?"

     The Prince made answer: "Unto this I came,
And not for thrones: the kingdom that I crave
Is more than many realms, and all things pass
To change and death.  Bring me forth Kantaka!"

     "Most honored," spake again the charioteer,

     "Bethink thee of their woe whose bliss thou art--
How shalt thou help them, first undoing them?"

     Siddartha answered: "Friend, that love is false
Which clings to love for selfish sweets of love;
But I, who love these more than joys of mine--
Yea, more than joy of theirs--depart to save
Them and all flesh, if utmost love avail.
Go, bring me Kantaka!"

                              Then Channa said,
"Master, I go!" and forthwith, mournfully,
Unto the stall he passed, and from the rack
Took down the silver bit and bridle-chains,
Breast-cord and curb, and knitted fast the straps,
And linked the hooks, and led out Kantaka
Whom tethering to the ring, he combed and dressed,
Stroking the snowy coat to silken gloss;
Next on the steed he laid the numdah square,
Fitted the saddle-cloth across, and set
The saddle fair, drew tight the jewelled girths,
Buckled the breech-bands and the martingale,
And made fall both the stirrups of worked gold.
Then over all he cast a golden net,
With tassels of seed-pearl and silken strings,
And led the great horse to the palace door,
Where stood the Prince; but when he saw his Lord,
Right glad he waxed and joyously he neighed,
Spreading his scarlet nostrils; and the books
Write, "Surely all had heard Kantaka's neigh,
And that strong trampling of his iron heels,
Save that the Devas laid their unseen wings
Over their ears and kept the sleepers deaf."

     Fondly Siddartha drew the proud head down,
Patted the shining neck, and said, "Be still,
White Kantaka! be still, and bear me now
The farthest journey ever rider rode;
For this night take I horse to find the truth,
And where my quest will end yet know I not,
Save that it shall not end until I find.
Therefore tonight, good steed, be fierce and bold!
Let nothing stay thee, though a thousand blades
Deny the road! let neither wall nor moat
Forbid our flight! Look! if I touch thy flank
And cry, `On, Kantaka! I let whirlwinds lag
Behind thy course!  Be fire and air, my horse!
To stead thy Lord, so shalt thou share with him
The greatness of this deed which helps the world;
For therefore ride I, not for men alone,
But for all things which, speechless, share our pain
And have no hope, nor wit to ask for hope.
Now, therefore, bear thy master valorously!"

     Then to the saddle lightly leaping, he
Touched the arched crest, and Kantaka sprang forth
With armed hoofs sparkling on the stones and ring
Of champing bit; but none did hear that sound,
For that the Suddha Devas, gathering near,
Plucked the red mohra-flowers and strewed them thick
Under his tread, while hands invisible
Muffled the ringing bit and bridle chains.
Moreover, it is written when they came
Upon the pavement near the inner gates,
The Yakshas of the air laid magic cloths
Under the stallion's feet, so that he went
Softly and still.

             But when they reached the gate
Of tripled brass--which hardly fivescore men
Served to unbar and open--lo! the doors
Rolled back all silently, though one might hear
In daytime two koss off the thunderous roar
Of those grim hinges and unwieldy plates.

     Also the middle and the outer gates
Unfolded each their monstrous portals thus
In silence as Siddartha and his steed
Drew near; while underneath their shadow lay.
Silent as dead men, all those chosen guards--
The lance and sword let fall, the shields unbraced,
Captains and soldiers--for there came a wind,
Drowsier than blows o'er Malwa's fields of sleep
Before the Prince's path, which, being breathed,
Lulled every sense aswoon: and so he passed
Free from the palace.

                   When the morning star
Stood half a spear's length from the eastern rim,
And o'er the earth the breath of morning sighed
Rippling Anoma's wave, the border-stream,
Then drew he rein, and leaped to earth and kissed
White Kantaka betwixt the ears, and spake
Full sweet to Channa: "This which thou hast done
Shall bring thee good and bring all creatures good.
Be sure I love thee always for thy love.
Lead back my horse and take my crest-pearl here,
My princely robes, which henceforth stead me not,
My jewelled sword-belt and my sword, and these
The long locks by its bright edge severed thus
From off my brows.  Give the King all, and say
Siddartha prays forget him till he come
Ten times a prince, with royal wisdom won
From lonely searchings and the strife for light;
Where, if I conquer, lo! all earth is mine--
Mine by chief service!--tell him--mine by love!
Since there is hope for man only in man,
And none hath sought for this as I will seek,
Who cast away my world to save my world."




Book the Fifth



Round Rajagriha five fair hills arose,
Guarding King Bimbasara's sylvan town;
Baibhara, green with lemon-grass and palms;
Bipulla, at whose foot thin Sarsuti
Steals with warm ripple; shadowy Tapovan,
Whose steaming pools mirror black rocks, which ooze
Sovereign earth-butter from their rugged roofs;
South-east the vulture-peak Sailagiri;
And eastward Ratnagiri, hill of gems.
A winding track, paven with footworn slabs,
Leads thee by safflower fields and bamboo tufts
Under dark mangoes and the jujube-trees,
Past milk-white veins of rock and jasper crags,
Low cliff and flats of jungle-flowers, to where
The shoulder of that mountain, sloping west,
O'erhangs a cave with wild figs canopied.
Lo! thou who comest thither, bare thy feet
And bow thy head! for all this spacious earth
Hath not a spot more dear and hallowed.
Here Lord Buddha sate the scorching summers through,
The driving rains, the chilly dawns and eves;
Wearing for all men's sakes the yellow robe,
Eating in beggar's guise the scanty meal
Chance-gathered from the charitable; at night
Crouched on the grass, homeless, alone; while yelped
The sleepless jackals round his cave, or coughs
Of famished tiger from the thicket broke.
By day and night here dwelt the World-honoured,
Subduing that fair body born for bliss
With fast and frequent watch and search intense
Of silent meditation, so prolonged
That ofttimes while he mused--as motionless
As the fixed rock his seat--the squirrel leaped
Upon his knee, the timid quail led forth
Her brood between his feet, and blue doves pecked
The rice-grains from the bowl beside his hand.

     Thus would he muse from noontide--when the land
Shimmered with heat, and walls and temples danced
In the reeking air--till sunset, noting not
The blazing globe roll down, nor evening glide,
Purple and swift, across the softened fields;
Nor the still coming of the stars, nor throb
Of drum-skins in the busy town, nor screech
Of owl and night jar; wholly wrapt from self
In keen unraveling of the threads of thought
And steadfast pacing of life's labyrinths.
Thus would he sit till midnight hushed the world,
Save where the beasts of darkness in the brake
Crept and cried out, as fear and hatred cry,
As lust and avarice and anger creep
In the black jungles of man's ignorance.
Then slept he for what space the fleet moon asks
To swim a tenth part of her cloudy sea;
But rose ere the false-dawn, and stood again
Wistful on some dark platform of his hill,
Watching the sleeping earth with ardent eyes
And thoughts embracing all its living things,
While o'er the waving fields that murmur moved
Which is the kiss of Morn waking the lands,
And in the east that miracle of Day
Gathered and grew: at first a dusk so dim
Night seems still unaware of whispered dawn,
But soon--before the jungle-cock crows twice--
A white verge clear, a widening, brightening white,
High as the herald-star, which fades in floods
Of silver, warming into pale gold, caught
By topmost clouds, and flaming on their rims
To fervent golden glow, flushed from the brink
With saffron, scarlet, crimson, amethyst;
Whereat the sky burns splendid to the blue,
And, robed in raiment of glad light, the
Song Of Life and Glory cometh!

                         Then our Lord,
After the manner of a Rishi, hailed
The rising orb, and went--ablutions made--
Down by the winding path unto the town;
And in the fashion of a Rishi passed
From street to street, with begging-bowl in hand,
Gathering the little pittance of his needs.
Soon was it filled, for all the townsmen cried,
"Take of our store, great sir!" and "Take of ours!"
Marking his godlike face and eyes enwrapt;
And mothers, when they saw our Lord go by,
Would bid their children fall to kiss his feet,
And lift his robe's hem to their brows, or run
To fill his jar, and fetch him milk and cakes.
And ofttimes as he paced, gentle and slow,
Radiant with heavenly pity, lost in care
For those he knew not, save as fellow lives,
The dark surprised eyes of some Indian maid
Would dwell in sudden love and worship deep
On that majestic form, as if she saw
Her dreams of tenderest thought made true, and grace
Fairer than mortal fire her breast.  But he
Passed onward with the bowl and yellow robe,
By mild speech paying all those gifts of hearts,
Wending his way back to the solitudes
To sit upon his hill with holy men,
And hear and ask of wisdom and its roads.

     Midway on Ratnagiri's groves of calm,
Beyond the city, but below the caves,
Lodged such as hold the body foe to soul,
And flesh a beast which men must chain and tame
With bitter pains, till sense of pain is killed,
And tortured nerves vex torturer no more--
Yogis and Brahmacharis, Bhikshus, all--
A gaunt and mournful band, dwelling apart.
Some day and night had stood with lifted arms,
Till--drained of blood and withered by disease
Their slowly-wasting joints and stiffened limbs
Jutted from sapless shoulders like dead forks
     from forest trunks.
Others had clenched their hands
So long and with so fierce a fortitude,
The claw-like nails grew through the festered palm.
Some walked on sandals spiked; some with sharp flints
Gashed breast and brow and thigh, scarred these
     with fire,
Threaded their flesh with jungle thorns and spits,
Besmeared with mud and ashes, crouching foul
In rags of dead men wrapped about their loins.
Certain there were inhabited the spots
Where death pyres smouldered, cowering defiled
With corpses for their company, and kites
Screaming around them o'er the funeral-spoils;
Certain who cried five hundred times a day
The names of Shiva, wound with darting snakes
About their sun-tanned necks and hollow flanks,
One palsied foot drawn up against the ham.
So gathered they, a grievous company;
Crowns blistered by the blazing heat, eyes bleared,
Sinews and muscles shrivelled, visages
Haggard and wan as slain men's, five days dead;
Here crouched one in the dust who noon by noon
Meted a thousand grains of millet out,
Ate it with famished patience, seed by seed,
And so starved on; there one who bruised his pulse
With bitter leaves lest palate should be pleased;
And next, a miserable saint self-maimed,
Eyeless and tongueless, sexless, crippled, deaf;
The body by the mind being thus stripped
For glory of much suffering, and the bliss
Which they shall win--say holy books--whose woe
Shames gods that send us woe, and makes men gods
Stronger to suffer than hell is to harm.

     Whom sadly eyeing spake our Lord to one,
Chief of the woe-begones: "Much-suffering sir
These many moons I dwell upon the hill--
Who am a seeker of the Truth--and see
My brothers here, and thee, so piteously
Self-anguished; wherefore add ye ills to life
Which is so evil?"

                Answer made the sage
"'T is written if a man shall mortify
His flesh, till pain be grown the life he lives
And death voluptuous rest, such woes shall purge
Sin's dross away, and the soul, purified,
Soar from the furnace of its sorrow, winged
For glorious spheres and splendour past all thought."

     "Yon cloud which floats in heaven," the Prince replied,
"Wreathed like gold cloth around your Indra's throne,
Rose thither from the tempest-driven sea;
But it must fall again in tearful drops,
Trickling through rough and painful water-ways
By cleft and nullah and the muddy flood,
To Gunga and the sea, wherefrom it sprang.
Know'st thou, my brother, if it be not thus,
After their many pains, with saints in bliss?
Since that which rises falls, and that which buys
Is spent; and if ye buy heaven with your blood
In hell's hard market, when the bargain's through
The toil begins again!"

                           "It may begin,"
The hermit moaned.  "Alas! we know not this,
Nor surely anything; yet after night
Day comes, and after turmoil peace, and we
Hate this accursed flesh which clogs the soul
That fain would rise; so, for the sake of soul,
We stake brief agonies in game with Gods
To gain the larger joys."

                          "Yet if they last
A myriad years," he said, "they fade at length,
Those joys; or if not, is there then some life
Below, above, beyond, so unlike life it will not change?
Speak! do your Gods endure
For ever, brothers?"

                      "Nay," the Yogis said,
"Only great Brahm endures: the Gods but live."

     Then spake Lord Buddha: "Will ye, being wise,
As ye seem holy and strong-hearted ones,
Throw these sore dice, which are your groans and moans,
For gains which may be dreams, and must have end?
Will ye, for love of soul, so loathe your flesh,
So scourge and maim it, that it shall not serve
To bear the spirit on, searching for home,
But founder on the track before nightfall,
Like willing steed o'er-spurred?  Will ye, sad sirs,
Dismantle and dismember this fair house,
Where we have come to dwell by painful pasts;
Whose windows give us light--the little light
Whereby we gaze abroad to know if dawn
Will break, and whither winds the better road?"

     Then cried they, "We have chosen this for road
And tread it, Rajaputra, till the close--
Though all its stones were fire--in trust of death.
Speak, if thou know'st a way more excellent;
If not, peace go with thee!"

                Onward he passed,
Exceeding sorrowful, seeing how men
Fear so to die they are afraid to fear,
Lust so to live they dare not love their life,
But plague it with fierce penances, belike
To please the Gods who grudge pleasure to man;
Belike to balk hell by self-kindled hells;
Belike in holy madness, hoping soul
May break the better through their wasted flesh.
"Oh, flowerets of the field!" Siddartha said,
"Who turn your tender faces to the sun--
Glad of the light, and grateful with sweet breath
Of fragrance and these robes of reverence donned
Silver and gold and purple--none of ye
Miss perfect living, none of ye despoil
Your happy beauty.  O, ye palms, which rise
Eager to pierce the sky and drink the wind
Blown from Malaya and the cool blue seas,
What secret know ye that ye grow content,
From time of tender shoot to time of fruit,
Murmuring such sun-songs from your feathered crowns?
Ye, too, who dwell so merry in the trees--
Quick-darting parrots, bee-birds, bulbuls, doves--
None of ye hate your life, none of ye deem
To strain to better by foregoing needs!
But man, who slays ye--being lord--is wise,
And wisdom, nursed on blood, cometh thus forth
In self-tormentings!"

                  While the Master spake
Blew down the mount the dust of pattering feet,
White goats and black sheep winding slow their way,
With many a lingering nibble at the tufts,
And wanderings from the path, where water gleamed
Or wild figs hung.  But always as they strayed
The herdsman cried, or slung his sling, and kept
The silly crowd still moving to the plain.
A ewe with couplets in the flock there was.
Some hurt had lamed one lamb, which toiled behind
Bleeding, while in the front its fellow skipped,
And the vexed dam hither and thither ran,
Fearful to lose this little one or that;
Which when our Lord did mark, full tenderly
He took the limping lamb upon his neck,
Saying: "Poor woolly mother, be at peace!
Whither thou goest I will bear thy care;
'T were all as good to ease one beast of grief
As sit and watch the sorrows of the world
In yonder caverns with the priests who pray."

     "But," spake he to the herdsmen, "wherefore, friends,
Drive ye the flocks adown under high noon,
Since 't is at evening that men fold their sheep?"

     And answer gave the peasants: "We are sent
To fetch a sacrifice of goats five score,
And five score sheep, the which our Lord the King
Slayeth this night in worship of his gods."

     Then said the Master, "I will also go."
So paced he patiently, bearing the lamb
Beside the herdsmen in the dust and sun,
The wistful ewe low-bleating at his feet.

     Whom, when they came unto the river-side,
A woman--dove-eyed, young, with tearful face
And lifted hands--saluted, bending low
"Lord! thou art he," she said, "who yesterday
Had pity on me in the fig-grove here,
Where I live lone and reared my child; but he
Straying amid the blossoms found a snake,
Which twined about his wrist, while he did laugh
And tease the quick forked tongue and opened mouth
Of that cold playmate.  But, alas! ere long
He turned so pale and still, I could not think
Why he should cease to play, and let my breast
Fall from his lips.  And one said, 'He is sick
Of poison'; and another, 'He will die.'
But I, who could not lose my precious boy,
Prayed of them physic, which might bring the light
Back to his eyes; it was so very small
That kiss-mark of the serpent, and I think
It could not hate him, gracious as he was,
Nor hurt him in his sport.  And some one said,
'There is a holy man upon the hill
Lo! now he passeth in the yellow robe
Ask of the Rishi if there be a cure
For that which ails thy son.'  Whereon I came
Trembling to thee, whose brow is like a god's,
And wept and drew the face cloth from my babe,
Praying thee tell what simples might be good.
And thou, great sir, did'st spurn me not, but gaze
With gentle eyes and touch with patient hand;
Then draw the face cloth back, saying to me,
'Yea, little sister, there is that might heal
Thee first, and him, if thou couldst fetch the thing;
For they who seek physicians bring to them
What is ordained.  Therefore, I pray thee, find
Black mustard-seed, a tola; only mark
Thou take it not from any hand or house
Where father, mother, child, or slave hath died;
It shall be well if thou canst find such seed.'
Thus didst thou speak, my Lord!"

                   The Master smiled
Exceeding tenderly.  "Yea, I spake thus,
Dear Kisagotami!  But didst thou find The seed?"

       "I went, Lord, clasping to my breast
The babe, grown colder, asking at each hut--
Here in the jungle and towards the town--
'I pray you, give me mustard, of your grace,
A tola-black'; and each who had it gave,
For all the poor are piteous to the poor;
But when I asked, 'In my friend's household here
Hath any peradventure ever died
Husband or wife, or child, or slave?' they said:
'O sister! what is this you ask? the dead
Are very many, and the living few!'
So with sad thanks I gave the mustard back,
And prayed of others; but the others said,
Here is the seed, but we have lost our slave.'
'Here is the seed, but our good man is dead!'
'Here is some seed, but he that sowed it died
Between the rain-time and the harvesting!'
Ah, sir!  I could not find a single house
Where there was mustard-seed and none had died!
Therefore I left my child--who would not suck
Nor smile--beneath the wild vines by the stream,
To seek thy face and kiss thy feet, and pray
Where I might find this seed and find no death,
If now, indeed, my baby be not dead,
As I do fear, and as they said to me."

     "My sister! thou hast found," the Master said,
"Searching for what none finds--that bitter balm
I had to give thee.  He thou lovest slept
Dead on thy bosom yesterday: today
Thou know'st the whole wide world weeps with thy woe
The grief which all hearts share grows less for one.
Lo!  I would pour my blood if it could stay
Thy tears and win the secret of that curse
Which makes sweet love our anguish, and which drives
O'er flowers and pastures to the sacrifice
As these dumb beasts are driven--men their lords.
I seek that secret: bury thou thy child!"

     So entered they the city side by side,
The herdsmen and the Prince, what time the sun
Gilded slow Sona's distant stream, and threw
Long shadows down the street and through the gate
Where the King's men kept watch.  But when they saw
Our Lord bearing the lamb, the guards stood back,
The market-people drew their wains aside,
In the bazaar buyers and sellers stayed
The war of tongues to gaze on that mild face;
The smith, with lifted hammer in his hand,
Forgot to strike; the weaver left his web,
The scribe his scroll, the money-changer lost
His count of cowries; from the unwatched rice
Shiva's white bull fed free; the wasted milk
Ran o'er the lota while the milkers watched
The passage of our Lord moving so meek,
With yet so beautiful a majesty.
But most the women gathering in the doors
Asked: "Who is this that brings the sacrifice,
So graceful and peace-giving as he goes?
What is his caste? whence hath he eyes so sweet?
Can he be Sakra or the Devaraj?"
And others said, "It is the holy man
Who dwelleth with the Rishis on the hill."
But the Lord paced, in meditation lost,
Thinking, "Alas! for all my sheep which have
No shepherd; wandering in the night with none
To guide them; bleating blindly towards the knife
Of Death, as these dumb beasts which are their kin."

     Then some one told the King, "There cometh here
A holy hermit, bringing down the flock
Which thou didst bid to crown the sacrifice."

     The King stood in his hall of offering.
On either hand, the white-robed Brahmans ranged
Muttered their mantras, feeding still the fire
Which roared upon the midmost altar.  There
From scented woods flickered bright tongues of flame,
Hissing and curling as they licked the gifts
Of ghee and spices and the soma juice,
The joy of Iudra.  Round about the pile
A slow, thick, scarlet streamlet smoked and ran,
Sucked by the sand, but ever rolling down,
The blood of bleating victims.  One such lay,
A spotted goat, long-horned, its head bound back
With munja grass; at its stretched throat the knife
Pressed by a priest, who murmured: "This, dread gods,
Of many yajnas cometh as the crown
From Bimbasara: take ye joy to see
The spirted blood, and pleasure in the scent
Of rich flesh roasting 'mid the fragrant flames;
Let the King's sins be laid upon this goat,
And let the fire consume them burning it,
For now I strike."

                      But Buddha softly said,
"Let him not strike, great King!" and therewith loosed
The victim's bonds, none staying him, so great
His presence was.  Then, craving leave, he spake
Of life, which all can take but none can give,
Life, which all creatures love and strive to keep,
Wonderful, dear and pleasant unto each,
Even to the meanest; yea, a boon to all
Where pity is, for pity makes the world
Soft to the weak and noble for the strong.
Unto the dumb lips of his flock he lent
Sad pleading words, showing how man, who prays
For mercy to the gods, is merciless,
Being as god to those; albeit all life
Is linked and kin, and what we slay have given
Meek tribute of the milk and wool, and set
Fast trust upon the hands which murder them.
Also he spake of what the holy books
Do surely teach, how that at death some sink
To bird and beast, and these rise up to man
In wanderings of the spark which grows purged flame.
So were the sacrifice new sin, if so
The fated passage of a soul be stayed.
Nor, spake he, shall one wash his spirit clean
By blood; nor gladden gods, being good, with blood;
Nor bribe them, being evil; nay, nor lay
Upon the brow of innocent bound beasts
One hair's weight of that answer all must give
For all things done amiss or wrongfully,
Alone, each for himself, reckoning with that
The fixed arithmic of the universe,
Which meteth good for good and ill for ill,
Measure for measure, unto deeds, words, thoughts;
Watchful, aware, implacable, unmoved;
Making all futures fruits of all the pasts.
Thus spake he, breathing words so piteous
With such high lordliness of ruth and right,
The priests drew back their garments o'er the hands
Crimsoned with slaughter, and the King came near,
Standing with clasped palms reverencing Buddh;
While still our Lord went on, teaching how fair
This earth were if all living things be linked
In friendliness, and common use of foods
Bloodless and pure; the golden grain, bright fruits,
Sweet herbs which grow for all, the waters wan,
Sufficient drinks and meats.  Which when these heard,
The might of gentleness so conquered them,
The priests themselves scattered their altar-flames
And flung away the steel of sacrifice;
And through the land next day passed a decree
Proclaimed by criers, and in this wise graved
On rock and column: "Thus the King's will is:
There hath been slaughter for the sacrifice,
And slaying for the meat, but henceforth none
Shall spill the blood of life nor taste of flesh,
Seeing that knowledge grows, and life is one,
And mercy cometh to the merciful."
So ran the edict, and from those days forth
Sweet peace hath spread between all living kind,
Man and the beasts which serve him, and the birds,
On all those banks of Gunga where our Lord
Taught with his saintly pity and soft speech.

     For aye so piteous was the Master's heart
To all that breathe this breath of fleeting life,
Yoked in one fellowship of joys and pains,
That it is written in the holy books
How, in an ancient age--when Buddha wore
A Brahman's form, dwelling upon the rock
Named Munda, by the village of Dalidd--
Drought withered all the land: the young rice died
Ere it could hide a quail; in forest glades
A fierce sun sucked the pools; grasses and herbs
Sickened, and all the woodland creatures fled
Scattering for sustenance.  At such a time,
Between the hot walls of a nullah, stretched
On naked stones, our Lord spied, as he passed,
A starving tigress.  Hunger in her orbs
Glared with green flame; her dry tongue lolled a span
Beyond the gasping jaws and shrivelled jowl;
Her painted hide hung wrinkled on her ribs,
As when between the rafters sinks a thatch
Rotten with rains; and at the poor lean dugs
Two cubs, whining with famine, tugged and sucked,
Mumbling those milkless teats which rendered nought,
While she, their gaunt dam, licked full motherly
The clamorous twins, yielding her flank to them
With moaning throat, and love stronger than want,
Softening the first of that wild cry wherewith
She laid her famished muzzle to the sand
And roared a savage thunder-peal of woe.
Seeing which bitter strait, and heeding nought
Save the immense compassion of a Buddh,
Our Lord bethought, "There is no other way
To help this murdress of the woods but one.
By sunset these will die, having no meat:
There is no living heart will pity her,
Bloody with ravin, lean for lack of blood.
Lo! if I feed her, who shall lose but I,
And how can love lose doing of its kind
Even to the uttermost?"  So saying, Buddh
Silently laid aside sandals and staff,
His sacred thread, turban, and cloth, and came
Forth from behind the milk-bush on the sand,
Saying, "Ho! mother, here is meat for thee!"
Whereat the perishing beast yelped hoarse and shrill,
Sprang from her cubs, and, hurling to the earth
That willing victim, had her feast of him
With all the crooked daggers of her claws
Rending his flesh, and all her yellow fangs
Bathed in his blood: the great cat's burning breath
Mixed with the last sigh of such fearless love.

     Thus large the Master's heart was long ago,
Not only now, when with his gracious ruth
He bade cease cruel worship of the gods.
And much King Bimbasara prayed our Lord--
Learning his royal birth and holy search--
To tarry in that city, saying oft
"Thy princely state may not abide such fasts;
Thy hands were made for sceptres, not for alms.
Sojourn with me, who have no son to rule,
And teach my kingdom wisdom, till I die,
Lodged in my palace with a beauteous bride."
But ever spake Siddartha, of set mind
"These things I had, most noble King, and left,
Seeking the Truth; which still I seek, and shall;
Not to be stayed though Sakra's palace ope'd
Its doors of pearl and Devis wooed me in.
I go to build the Kingdom of the Law, journeying to
Gaya and the forest shades,
Where, as I think, the light will come to me;
For nowise here among the Rishis comes
That light, nor from the Shasters, nor from fasts
Borne till the body faints, starved by the soul.
Yet there is light to reach and truth to win;
And surely, O true Friend, if I attain
I will return and quit thy love."

                            Thereat
Thrice round the Prince King Bimbasara paced,
Reverently bending to the Master's feet,
And bade him speed.  So passed our Lord away
Towards Uravilva, not yet comforted,
And wan of face, and weak with six years' quest.
But they upon the hill and in the grove--
Alara, Udra, and the ascetics five--
Had stayed him, saying all was written clear
In holy Shasters, and that none might win
Higher than Sruti and than Smriti--nay,
Not the chief saints!--for how should mortal man
Be wiser than the Jnana-Kand, which tells
How Brahm is bodiless and actionless,
Passionless, calm, unqualified, unchanged,
Pure life, pure thought, pure joy?  Or how should man
Its better than the Karmma-Kand, which shows
How he may strip passion and action off,
Break from the bond of self, and so, unsphered,
Be God, and melt into the vast divine,
Flying from false to true, from wars of sense
To peace eternal, where the silence lives?

     But the prince heard them, not yet comforted.




Book The Sixth



Thou who wouldst see where dawned the light at last,
North-westwards from the "Thousand Gardens" go
By Gunga's valley till thy steps be set
On the green hills where those twin streamlets spring
Nilajan and Mohana; follow them,
Winding beneath broad-leaved mahua-trees,
'Mid thickets of the sansar and the bir,
Till on the plain the shining sisters meet
In Phalgu's bed, flowing by rocky banks
To Gaya and the red Barabar hills.
Hard by that river spreads a thorny waste,
Uruwelaya named in ancient days,
With sandhills broken; on its verge a wood
Waves sea-green plumes and tassels 'thwart the sky,
With undergrowth wherethrough a still flood steals,
Dappled with lotus-blossoms, blue and white,
And peopled with quick fish and tortoises.
Near it the village of Senani reared
Its roofs of grass, nestled amid the palms,
Peaceful with simple folk and pastoral toils.

     There in the sylvan solitudes once more
Lord Buddha lived, musing the woes of men,
The ways of fate, the doctrines of the books,
The lessons of the creatures of the brake,
The secrets of the silence whence all come,
The secrets of the gloom whereto all go,
The life which lies between, like that arch flung
From cloud to cloud across the sky, which hath
Mists for its masonry and vapoury piers,
Melting to void again which was so fair
With sapphire hues, garnet, and chrysoprase.
Moon after moon our Lord sate in the wood,
So meditating these that he forgot
Ofttimes the hour of food, rising from thoughts
Prolonged beyond the sunrise and the noon
To see his bowl unfilled, and eat perforce
Of wild fruit fallen from the boughs o'erhead,
Shaken to earth by chattering ape or plucked
By purple parokeet.  Therefore his grace
Faded; his body, worn by stress of soul,
Lost day by day the marks, thirty and two,
Which testify the Buddha.  Scarce that leaf,
Fluttering so dry and withered to his feet
From off the sal-branch, bore less likeliness
Of spring's soft greenery than he of him
Who was the princely flower of all his land.

     And once at such a time the o'erwrought Prince
Fell to the earth in deadly swoon, all spent,
Even as one slain, who hath no longer breath
Nor any stir of blood; so wan he was,
So motionless.  But there came by that way
A shepherd-boy, who saw Siddartha lie
With lids fast-closed, and lines of nameless pain
Fixed on his lips--the fiery noonday sun
Beating upon his head--who, plucking boughs
From wild rose-apple trees, knitted them thick
Into a bower to shade the sacred face.
Also he poured upon the Master's lips
Drops of warm milk, pressed from his she-goat's bag,
Lest, being of low caste, he do wrong to one
So high and holy seeming.  But the books
Tell how the jambu-branches, planted thus,
Shot with quick life in wealth of leaf and flower
And glowing fruitage interlaced and close,
So that the bower grew like a tent of silk
Pitched for a king at hunting, decked with studs
Of silver-work and bosses of red gold.
And the boy worshipped, deeming him some God;
But our Lord, gaining breath, arose and asked
Milk in the shepherd's lots.  "Ah, my Lord,
I cannot give thee," quoth the lad; "thou seest
I am a Sudra, and my touch defiles!"
Then the World-honoured spake: "Pity and need
Make all flesh kin.  There is no caste in blood,
Which runneth of one hue, nor caste in tears,
Which trickle salt with all; neither comes man
To birth with tilka-mark stamped on the brow,
Nor sacred thread on neck.  Who doth right deeds
Is twice-born, and who doeth ill deeds vile.
Give me to drink, my brother; when I come
Unto my quest it shall be good for thee."
Thereat the peasant's heart was glad, and gave.

     And on another day there passed that road
A band of tinselled, girls, the nautch-dancers
Of Indra's temple in the town, with those
Who made their music--one that beat a drum
Set round with peacock-feathers, one that blew
The piping bansuli, and one that twitched
A three-string sitar.  Lightly tripped they down
From ledge to ledge and through the chequered paths
To some gay festival, the silver bells
Chiming soft peals about the small brown feet,
Armlets and wrist-rings tattling answer shrill;
While he that bore the sitar thrummed and twanged
His threads of brass, and she beside him sang--

"Fair goes the dancing when the sitar's tuned;
Tune us the sitar neither low nor high,
And we will dance away the hearts of men.

"The string o'erstretched breaks, and the music flies,
The string o'erslack is dumb, and music dies;
Tune us the sitar neither low nor high."

"So sang the nautch-girl to the pipe and wires,
Fluttering like some vain, painted butterfly
From glade to glade along the forest path,
Nor dreamed her light words echoed on the ear
Of him, that holy man, who sate so rapt
Under the fig-tree by the path.  But Buddh
Lifted his great brow as the wantons passed,
And spake: 'The foolish ofttimes teach the wise;
I strain too much this string of life, belike,
Meaning to make such music as shall save.
Mine eyes are dim now that they see the truth,
My strength is waned now that my need is most;
Would that I had such help as man must have,
For I shall die, whose life was all men's hope.'"

     Now, by that river dwelt a landholder
Pious and rich, master of many herds,
A goodly chief, the friend of all the poor;
And from his house the village drew its name--
"Senani."  Pleasant and in peace he lived,
Having for wife Sujata, loveliest
Of all the dark-eyed daughters of the plain;
Gentle and true, simple and kind was she,
Noble of mien, with gracious speech to all
And gladsome looks--a pearl of womanhood--
Passing calm years of household happiness
Beside her lord in that still Indian home,
Save that no male child blessed their wedded love.
Wherefore with many prayers she had besought
Lukshmi, and many nights at full-moon gone
Round the great Lingam, nine times nine, with gifts
Of rice and jasmine wreaths and sandal oil,
Praying a boy; also Sujata vowed--
If this should be--an offering of food
Unto the Wood-God, plenteous, delicate,
Set in a bowl of gold under his tree,
Such as the lips of Devs may taste and take.
And this had been: for there was born to her
A beauteous boy, now three months old, who lay
Between Sujata's breasts, while she did pace
With grateful footsteps to the Wood-God's shrine,
One arm clasping her crimson sari close
To wrap the babe, that jewel of her joys,
The other lifted high in comely curve
To steady on her head the bowl and dish
Which held the dainty victuals for the God.

     But Radha, sent before to sweep the ground
And tie the scarlet threads around the tree,
Came eager, crying, "Ah, dear Mistress! look!
There is the Wood-God sitting in his place,
Revealed, with folded hands upon his knees.
See how the light shines round about his brow!
How mild and great he seems, with heavenly eyes!
Good fortune is it thus to meet the gods."

     So,--thinking him divine,--Sujata drew
Tremblingly nigh, and kissed the earth and said,
With sweet face bent: "Would that the Holy One
Inhabiting his grove, Giver of good,
Merciful unto me his handmaiden,
Vouchsafing now his presence, might accept
These our poor gifts of snowy curds, fresh made,
With milk as white as new-carved ivory!"

     Therewith into the golden bowl she poured
The curds and milk, and on the hands of Buddh
Dropped attar from a crystal flask-distilled
Out of the hearts of roses; and he ate,
Speaking no word, while the glad mother stood
In reverence apart.  But of that meal
So wondrous was the virtue that our Lord
Felt strength and life return as though the nights
Of watching and the days of fast had passed
In dream, as though the spirit with the flesh
Shared that fine meat and plumed its wings anew,
Like some delighted bird at sudden streams
Weary with flight o'er endless wastes of sand,
Which laves the desert dust from neck and crest--
And more Sujata worshipped, seeing our Lord
Grow fairer and his countenance more bright:
"Art thou indeed the God?" she lowly asked,
"And hath my gift found favour?"

     But Buddh said, "What is it thou dost bring me?"

                      "Holy one!"
Answered Sujata, "from our droves I took
Milk of a hundred mothers newly-calved,
And with that milk I fed fifty white cows,
And with their milk twenty-and-five, and then
With theirs twelve more, and yet again with theirs
The six noblest and best of all our herds,
That yield I boiled with sandal and fine spice
In silver lotas, adding rice, well grown
From chosen seed, set in new-broken ground,
So picked that every grain was like a pearl.
This did I of true heart, because I vowed,
Under thy tree, if I should bear a boy
I would make offering for my joy, and now
I have my son and all my life is bliss!"

     Softly our Lord drew down the crimson fold,
And, laying on the little head those hands
Which help the world, he said: "Long be thy bliss!
And lightly fall on him the load of life!
For thou hast holpen me who am no God,
But one thy Brother; heretofore a Prince
And now a wanderer, seeking night and day
These six hard years that light which somewhere shines
To lighten all men's darkness, if they knew!
And I shall find the light; yea, now it dawned
Glorious and helpful, when my weak flesh failed
Which this pure food, fair Sister, hath restored,
Drawn manifold through lives to quicken life
As life itself passes by many births
To happier heights and purging off of sins.
Yet dost thou truly find it sweet enough
Only to live?  Can life and love suffice?"

     Answered Sujata: "Worshipful! my heart
Is little, and a little rain will fill
The lily's cup which hardly moists the field.
It is enough for me to feel life's sun
Shine in my lord's grace and my baby's smile,
Making the loving summer of our home.
Pleasant my days pass filled with household cares
From sunrise when I wake to praise the gods,
And give forth grain, and trim the tulsi-plant,
And set my handmaids to their tasks, till noon
When my lord lays his head upon my lap
Lulled by soft songs and wavings of the fan;
And so to supper-time at quiet eve,
When by his side I stand and serve the cakes.
Then the stars light their silver lamps for sleep,
After the temple and the talk with friends.
How should I not be happy, blest so much,
And bearing him this boy whose tiny hand
Shall lead his soul to Swerga, if it need?
For holy books teach when a man shall plant
Trees for the travelers' shade, and dig a well
For the folks' comfort, and beget a son,
It shall be good for such after their death;
And what the books say, that I humbly take,
Being not wiser than those great of old
Who spake with gods, and knew the hymns and charms,
And all the ways of virtue and of peace.
Also I think that good must come of good
And ill of evil--surely--unto all--
In every place and time--seeing sweet fruit
Groweth from wholesome roots, and bitter things
From poison-stocks; yea, seeing, too, how spite
Breeds hate, and kindness friends, and patience peace
Even while we live; and when 't is willed we die
Shall there not be as good a `Then' as `Now'?
Haply much better! since one grain of rice
Shoots a green feather gemmed with fifty pearls,
And all the starry champak's white and gold
Lurks in those little, naked, grey spring-buds.
Ah, Sir! I know there might be woes to bear
Would lay fond Patience with her face in dust;
If this my babe pass first I think my heart
Would break--almost I hope my heart would break!
That I might clasp him dead and wait my lord
In whatsoever world holds faithful wives--
Duteous, attending till his hour should come.
But if Death called Senani, I should mount
The pile and lay that dear head in my lap,
My daily way, rejoicing when the torch
Lit the quick flame and rolled the choking smoke.
For it is written if an Indian wife
Die so, her love shall give her husband's soul
For every hair upon her head a crore
Of years in Swerga.  Therefore fear I not.
And therefore, Holy Sir! my life is glad,
Nowise forgetting yet those other lives
Painful and poor, wicked and miserable,
Whereon the gods grant pity! but for me,
What good I see humbly I seek to do,
And live obedient to the law, in trust
That what will come, and must come, shall come well."

     Then spake our Lord: "Thou teachest them who teach,
Wiser than wisdom in thy simple lore.
Be thou content to know not, knowing thus
Thy way of right and duty: grow, thou flower
With thy sweet kind in peaceful shade--the light
Of Truth's high noon is not for tender leaves
Which must spread broad in other suns and lift
In later lives a crowned head to the sky.
Thou who hast worshipped me, I worship thee!
Excellent heart! learned unknowingly,
As the dove is which flieth home by love.
In thee is seen why there is hope for man
And where we hold the wheel of life at will.
Peace go with thee, and comfort all thy days!
As thou accomplishest, may I achieve!
He whom thou thoughtest God bids thee wish this."

     "May'st thou achieve," she said, with earnest eyes
Bent on her babe, who reached its tender hands
To Buddh--knowing, belike, as children know,
More than we deem, and reverencing our Lord;
But he arose--made strong with that pure meat--
And bent his footsteps where a great Tree grew,
The Bodhi-tree (thenceforward in all years
Never to fade, and ever to be kept
In homage of the world), beneath whose leaves
It was ordained that Truth should come to Buddh
Which now the Master knew; wherefore he went
With measured pace, steadfast, majestical,
Unto the Tree of Wisdom.  Oh, ye Worlds!
Rejoice! our Lord wended unto the Tree!

     Whom--as he passed into its ample shade,
Cloistered with columned dropping stems, and roofed
With vaults of glistening green--the conscious earth
Worshipped with waving grass and sudden flush
Of flowers about his feet.  The forest-boughs
Bent down to shade him; from the river sighed
Cool wafts of wind laden with lotus-scents
Breathed by the water-gods.  Large wondering eyes
Of woodland creatures--panther, boar, and deer--
At peace that eve, gazed on his face benign
From cave and thicket.  From its cold cleft wound
The mottled deadly snake, dancing its hood
In honour of our Lord; bright butterflies
Fluttered their vans, azure and green and gold,
To be his fan-bearers; the fierce kite dropped
Its prey and screamed; the striped palm-squirrel raced
From stem to stem to see; the weaver-bird
Chirped from her swinging nest; the lizard ran;
The koil sang her hymn; the doves flocked round;
Even the creeping things were 'ware and glad.
Voices of earth and air joined in one song,
Which unto ears that hear said: "Lord and Friend!
Lover and Saviour!  Thou who hast subdued
Angers and prides, desires and fears and doubts,
Thou that for each and all hast given thyself,
Pass to the Tree!  The sad world blesseth thee
Who art the Buddh that shall assuage her woes.
Pass, Hailed and Honoured! strive thy last for us,
King and high Conqueror! thine hour is come;
This is the Night the ages waited for!"

     Then fell the night even as our Master sate
Under that Tree.  But he who is the Prince
Of Darkness, Mara--knowing this was Buddh
Who should deliver men, and now the hour
When he should find the Truth and save the worlds--
Gave unto all his evil powers command.
Wherefore there trooped from every deepest pit
The fiends who war with Wisdom and the Light,
Arati, Trishna, Raga, and their crew
Of passions, horrors, ignorances, lusts.
The brood of gloom and dread; all hating Buddh,
Seeking to shake his mind; nor knoweth one,
Not even the wisest, how those fiends of Hell
Battled that night to keep the Truth from Buddh:
Sometimes with terrors of the tempest, blasts
Of demon-armies clouding all the wind,
With thunder, and with blinding lightning flung
In jagged javelins of purple wrath
From splitting skies; sometimes with wiles and words
Fair-sounding, 'mid hushed leaves and softened airs
From shapes of witching beauty; wanton songs,
Whispers of love; sometimes with royal allures
Of proffered rule; sometimes with mocking doubts,
Making truth vain.  But whether these befell
Without and visible, or whether Buddh
Strove with fell spirits in his inmost heart,
Judge ye:--I write what ancient books have writ.

     The ten chief Sins came--Mara's mighty ones,
Angels of evil--Attavada first,
The Sin of Self, who in the Universe
As in a mirror sees her fond face shown,
And crying "I" would have the world say "I,"
And all things perish so if she endure.
"If thou be'st Buddh," she said, "let others grope
Lightless; it is enough that thou art Thou
Changelessly; rise and take the bliss of gods
Who change not, heed not, strive not."
But Buddh spake,
"The right in thee is base, the wrong a curse;
Cheat such as love themselves."  Then came wan Doubt,
He that denies--the mocking Sin--and this
Hissed in the Master's ear: "All things are shows,
And vain the knowledge of their vanity;
Thou dost but chase the shadow of thyself;
Rise and go hence, there is no better way
Than patient scorn, nor any help for man,
Nor any staying of his whirling wheel."
But quoth our Lord, "Thou hast no part with me,
False Visikitcha, subtlest of man's foes."
And third came she who gives dark creeds their power,
Silabbat-paramasa, sorceress,
Draped fair in many lands as lowly Faith,
But ever juggling souls with rites and prayers;
The keeper of those keys which lock up Hells
And open Heavens.  "Wilt thou dare," she said,
"Put by our sacred books, dethrone our gods,
Unpeople all the temples, shaking down
That law which feeds the priests and props the realms?"
But Buddha answered, "What thou bidd'st me keep
Is form which passes, but the free Truth stands;
Get thee unto thy darkness."  Next there drew
Gallantly nigh a braver Tempter, he,
Kama, the King of passions, who hath sway
Over the gods themselves, lord of all loves,
Ruler of Pleasure's realm.  Laughing he came
Unto the Tree, bearing his bow of gold
Wreathed with red blooms, and arrows of desire
Pointed with five-tongued delicate flame which stings
The heart it smites sharper than poisoned barb.
And round him came into that lonely place
Bands of bright shapes with heavenly eyes and lips
Singing in lovely words the praise of Love
To music of invisible sweet chords,
So witching, that it seemed the night stood still
To hear them, and the listening stars and moon,
Paused in their orbits while these hymned to Buddh
Of lost delights, and how a mortal man
Findeth nought dearer in the three wide worlds
Than are the yielded loving fragrant breasts
Of Beauty and the rosy breast-blossoms,
Love's rubies; nay, and toucheth nought more high
Than is that dulcet harmony of form
Seen in the lines and charms of loveliness
Unspeakable, yet speaking, soul to soul,
Owned by the bounding blood, worshipped by will
Which leaps to seize it, knowing this is best,
This the true heaven where mortals are like gods,
Makers and Masters, this the gift of gifts
Ever renewed and worth a thousand woes.
For who hath grieved when soft arms shut him safe,
And all life melted to a happy sigh,
And all the world was given in one warm kiss?
So sang, they with soft float of beckoning hands,
Eyes lighted with love-flames, alluring smiles;
In dainty dance their supple sides and limbs
Revealing and concealing like burst buds
Which tell their colour, but hide yet their hearts.
Never so matchless grace delighted eye
As troop by troop these midnight-dancers swept
Nearer the Tree, each daintier than the last,
Murmuring, "O great Siddartha!  I am thine,
Taste of my mouth and see if youth is sweet!"
Also, when nothing moved our Master's mind,
Lo! Kama waved his magic bow, and lo!
The band of dancers opened, and a shape
Fairest and stateliest of the throng came forth
Wearing the guise of sweet Yasodhara.
Tender the passion of those dark eyes seemed
Brimming with tears; yearning those outspread arms
Opened towards him; musical that moan
Wherewith the beauteous shadow named his name,
Sighing: "My Prince!  I die for lack of thee!
What heaven hast thou found like that we knew
By bright Rohini in the Pleasure-house,
Where all these weary years I weep for thee?
Return, Siddartha! ah, return!  But touch
My lips again, but let me to thy breast
Once, and these fruitless dreams will end!  Ah, look!
Am I not she thou lovedst?"  But Buddh said:
"For that sweet sake of her thou playest thus
Fair and false Shadow, is thy playing vain;
I curse thee not who wear'st a form so dear,
Yet as thou art, so are all earthly shows.
Melt to thy void again!"  Thereat a cry
Thrilled through the grove, and all that comely rout
Faded with flickering wafts of flame, and trail
Of vaporous ropes.

             Next under darkening skies
And noise of rising storm came fiercer Sins
The rearmost of the Ten, Patigha--Hate--
With serpents coiled about her waist, which suck
Poisonous milk from both her hanging dugs,
And with her curses mix their angry hiss.
Little wrought she upon that Holy One
Who with his calm eyes dumbed her bitter lips
And made her black snakes writhe to hide their fangs.
Then followed Ruparaga--Lust of days--
That sensual Sin which out of greed for life
Forgets to live; and next him Lust of Fame,
Nobler Aruparaga, she whose spell
Beguiles the wise, mother of daring deeds,
Battles and toils.  And haughty Mano came,
The Fiend of Pride; and smooth Self-Righteousness.
Uddhachcha; and--with many a hideous band
Of vile and formless things, which crept and flapped
Toad-like and bat-like--Ignorance, the Dam
Of Fear and Wrong, Avidya, hideous hag,
Whose footsteps left the midnight darker, while
The rooted mountains shook, the wild winds howled,
The broken clouds shed from their caverns streams
Of levin-lighted rain; stars shot from heaven,
The solid earth shuddered as if one laid
Flame to her gaping wounds; the torn black air
Was full of whistling wings, of screams and yells,
Of evil faces peering, of vast fronts
Terrible and majestic, Lords of Hell
Who from a thousand Limbos led their troops
To tempt the Master.

                 But Buddh heeded not,
Sitting serene, with perfect virtue walled
As is a stronghold by its gates and ramps;
Also the Sacred Tree--the Bodhi-tree--
Amid that tumult stirred not, but each leaf
Glistened as still as when on moonlit eves
No zephyr spills the glittering gems of dew;
For all this clamour raged outside the shade
Spread by those cloistered stems.

                        In the third watch,
The earth being still, the hellish legions fled,
A soft air breathing from the sinking moon,
Our Lord attained samma-sambuddh; he saw
By light which shines beyond our mortal ken
The line of all his lives in all the worlds,
Far back and farther back and farthest yet,
Five hundred lives and fifty.  Even as one,
At rest upon a mountain-summit, marks
His path wind up by precipice and crag
Past thick-set woods shrunk to a patch; through bogs
Glittering false-green; down hollows where he toiled
Breathless; on dizzy ridges where his feet
Had well-nigh slipped; beyond the sunny lawns,
The cataract and the cavern and the pool,
Backward to those dim flats wherefrom he sprang
To reach the blue--thus Buddha did behold
Life's upward steps long-linked, from levels low
Where breath is base, to higher slopes and higher
Whereon the ten great Virtues wait to lead
The climber skyward.  Also, Buddha saw
How new life reaps what the old life did sow;
How where its march breaks off its march begins;
Holding the gain and answering for the loss;
And how in each life good begets more good,
Evil fresh evil; Death but casting up
Debit or credit, whereupon th' account
In merits or demerits stamps itself
By sure arithmic--where no tittle drops--
Certain and just, on some new-springing life;
Wherein are packed and scored past thoughts and deeds,
Strivings and triumphs, memories and marks
Of lives foregone:

                And in the middle watch,
Our Lord attained Abhidjna--insight vast
Ranging beyond this sphere to spheres unnamed,
System on system, countless worlds and suns
Moving in splendid measures, band by band
Linked in division, one yet separate,
The silver islands of a sapphire sea
Shoreless, unfathomed, undiminished, stirred
With waves which roll in restless tides of change.
He saw those Lords of Light who hold their worlds
By bonds invisible, how they themselves
Circle obedient round mightier orbs
Which serve profounder splendours, star to star
Flashing the ceaseless radiance of life
From centres ever shifting unto cirques
Knowing no uttermost.  These he beheld
With unsealed vision, and of all those worlds,
Cycle on epicycle, all their tale
Of Kalpas, Mahakalpas--terms of time
Which no man grasps, yea, though he knew to count
The drops in Gunga from her springs to the sea,
Measureless unto speech--whereby these wax
And wane; whereby each of this heavenly host
Fulfils its shining life and darkling dies.
Sakwal by Sakwal, depths and heights be passed
Transported through the blue infinitudes,
Marking--behind all modes, above all spheres,
Beyond the burning impulse of each orb--
That fixed decree at silent work which wills
Evolve the dark to light, the dead to life,
To fulness void, to form the yet unformed,
Good unto better, better unto best,
By wordless edict; having none to bid,
None to forbid; for this is past all gods
Immutable, unspeakable, supreme,
A Power which builds, unbuilds, and builds again,
Ruling all things accordant to the rule
Of virtue, which is beauty, truth, and use.
So that all things do well which serve the Power,
And ill which hinder; nay, the worm does well
Obedient to its kind; the hawk does well
Which carries bleeding quarries to its young;
The dewdrop and the star shine sisterly,
Globing together in the common work;
And man, who lives to die, dies to live well
So if he guide his ways by blamelessness
And earnest will to hinder not but help
All things both great and small which suffer life.
These did our Lord see in the middle watch.

     But when the fourth watch came the secret came
Of Sorrow, which with evil mars the law,
As damp and dross hold back the goldsmith's fire.
Then was the Dukha-satya opened him
First of the "Noble Truths"; how Sorrow is
Shadow to life, moving where life doth move;
Not to be laid aside until one lays
Living aside, with all its changing states,
Birth, growth, decay, love, hatred, pleasure, pain,
Being and doing.  How that none strips off
These sad delights and pleasant griefs who lacks
Knowledge to know them snares; but he who knows
Avidya--Delusion--sets those snares,
Loves life no longer but ensues escape.
The eyes of such a one are wide; he sees
Delusion breeds Sankhara, Tendency
Perverse: Tendency Energy--Vidnnan--
Whereby comes Namarupa, local form
And name and bodiment, bringing the man
With senses naked to the sensible,
A helpless mirror of all shows which pass
Across his heart; and so Vendana grows--
"Sense-life "--false in its gladness, fell in sadness,
But sad or glad, the Mother of Desire,
Trishna, that thirst which makes the living drink
Deeper and deeper of the false salt waves
Whereon they float--pleasures, ambitions, wealth,
Praise, fame, or domination, conquest, love;
Rich meats and robes, and fair abodes, and pride
Of ancient lines, and lust of days, and strife
To live, and sins that flow from strife, some sweet,
Some bitter.  Thus Life's thirst quenches itself
With draughts which double thirst; but who is wise
Tears from his soul this Trishna, feeds his sense
No longer on false shows, fills his firm mind
To seek not, strive not, wrong not; bearing meek
All ills which flow from foregone wrongfulness,
And so constraining passions that they die
Famished; till all the sum of ended life--
The Karma--all that total of a soul
Which is the things it did, the thoughts it had,
The "Self" it wove--with woof of viewless time,
Crossed on the warp invisible of acts--
The outcome of him on the Universe,
Grows pure and sinless; either never more
Needing to find a body and a place,
Or so informing what fresh frame it takes
In new existence that the new toils prove
Lighter and lighter not to be at all,
Thus "finishing the Path"; free from Earth's cheats;
Released from all the skandhas of the flesh;
Broken from ties--from Upandanas--saved
From whirling on the wheel; aroused and sane
As is a man wakened from hateful dreams;
Until--greater than Kings, than Gods more glad!--
The aching craze to live ends, and life glides--
Lifeless--to nameless quiet, nameless joy,
Blessed NIRVANA--sinless, stirless rest
That change which never changes!

                               Lo! the Dawn
Sprang with Buddh's Victory! lo! in the East
Flamed the first fires of beauteous day, poured forth
Through fleeting folds of Night's black drapery.
High in the widening blue the herald-star
Faded to paler silver as there shot
Brighter and brighter bars of rosy gleam
Across the grey.  Far off the shadowy hills
Saw the great Sun, before the world was 'ware,
And donned their crowns of crimson; flower by flower
Felt the warm breath of Morn and 'gan unfold
Their tender lids.  Over the spangled grass
Swept the swift footsteps of the lovely Light,
Turning the tears of Night to joyous gems,
Decking the earth with radiance, 'broidering
The sinking storm-clouds with a golden fringe;
Gilding the feathers of the palms, which waved
Glad salutation; darting beams of gold
Into the glades; touching with magic wand
The stream to rippled ruby; in the brake
Finding the mild eyes of the antelopes
And saying, "It is day"; in nested sleep
Touching the small heads under many a wing
And whispering, "Children, praise the light of day!"
Whereat there piped anthems of all the birds!
The koil's fluted song, the bulbul's hymn,
The "morning, morning" of the painted thrush,
The twitter of the sunbirds starting forth
To find the honey ere the bees be out,
The grey crow's caw, the parrot's scream, the strokes
Of the green hammersmith, the myna's chirp,
The never finished love-talk of the doves
Yea! and so holy was the influence
Of that high Dawn which came with victory
That, far and near, in homes of men there spread
An unknown peace.  The slayer hid his knife;
The robber laid his plunder back; the shroff
Counted full tale of coins; all evil hearts
Grew gentle, kind hearts gentler, as the balm
Of that divinest Daybreak lightened Earth.
Kings at fierce war called truce; the sick men leaped
Laughing from beds of pain; the dying smiled
As though they knew that happy Morn was sprung
From fountains farther than the utmost East;
And o'er the heart of sad Yasodhara,
Sitting forlorn at Prince Siddartha's bed,
Came sudden bliss, as if love should not fail
Nor such vast sorrow miss to end in joy.
So glad the World was--though it wist not why--
That over desolate wastes went swooning songs
Of mirth, the voice of bodiless Prets and Bhuts
Foreseeing Buddh; and Devas in the air Cried,
"It is finished, finished!" and the priests
Stood with the wondering people in the streets
Watching those golden splendours flood the sky
And saying, "There hath happed some mighty thing."
Also in Ran and jungle grew that day
Friendship amongst the creatures: spotted deer
Browsed fearless where the tigress fed her cubs,
And cheetahs lapped the pool beside the bucks;
Under the eagle's rock the brown hares scoured
While his fierce beak but preened an idle wing;
The snake sunned all his jewels in the beam
With deadly fangs in sheath; the shrike let pass
The nestling finch; the emerald halcyons
Sate dreaming while the fishes played beneath,
Nor hawked the merops, though the butterflies--
Crimson and blue and amber-flitted thick
Around his perch; the Spirit of our Lord
Lay potent upon man and bird and beast,
Even while he mused under that Bodhi-tree,
Glorified with the Conquest gained for all
And lightened by a Light greater than Day's.

     Then he arose--radiant, rejoicing, strong--
Beneath the Tree, and lifting high his voice
Spake this, in hearing of all Times and Worlds:

     Anekajatisangsarang
     Sandhawissang  anibhisang
     Gahakarakangawesanto
     Dukkhajatipunappunang.

     Gahakarakadithosi;
     Punagehang  nakahasi;
     Sabhatephasukhabhagga,
     Gahakutangwisang  Khitang;
     Wisangkharagatang  chittang,
     Janhanangknayamajhaga.

     Many a House of Life
Held me--Seeking Ever Him Wrought
These Prisons of the Senses, Sorrow-Fraught;
     Sore was My Ceaseless Strife!

     But Now,
Thou Builder of this Tabernacle--Thou!
I Know Thee!  Never Shalt Thou Build Again
     These Walls of Pain,

Nor Raise the Roof-Tree of Deceits, Nor Lay
     Fresh Rafters on the Clay:
Broken Thy House is, and the Ridge-Pole Split!
     Delusion Fashioned it!
Safe Pass I Thence--Deliverance to Obtain.




Book The Seventh



Sorrowful dwelt the King Suddhodana
All those long years among the Sakya Lords
Lacking the speech and presence of his Son;
Sorrowful sate the sweet Yasodhara
All those long years, knowing no joy of life,
Widowed of him her living Liege and Prince.
And ever, on the news of some recluse
Seen far away by pasturing camel-men
Or traders threading devious paths for gain,
Messengers from the King had gone and come
Bringing account of many a holy sage
Lonely and lost to home; but nought of him
The crown of white Kapilavastu's line,
The glory of her monarch and his hope,
The heart's content of sweet Yasodhara,
Far-wandered now, forgetful, changed, or dead.

     But on a day in the Wasanta-time,
When silver sprays swing on the mango-trees
And all the earth is clad with garb of spring,
The Princess sate by that bright garden-stream
Whose gliding glass, bordered with lotus-cups,
Mirrored so often in the bliss gone by
Their clinging hands and meeting lips.  Her lids
Were wan with tears, her tender cheeks had thinned;
Her lips' delicious curves were drawn with grief
The lustrous glory of her hair was hid--
Close-bound as widows use; no ornament
She wore, nor any jewel clasped the cloth--
Coarse, and of mourning-white--crossed on her breast.
Slow moved and painfully those small fine feet
Which had the roe's gait and the rose-leaf's fall
In old years at the loving voice of him.
Her eyes, those lamps of love,--which were as if
Sunlight should shine from out the deepest dark,
Illumining Night's peace with Daytime's glow--
Unlighted now, and roving aimlessly,
Scarce marked the clustering signs of coming Spring
So the silk lashes drooped over their orbs.
In one hand was a girdle thick with pearls,
Siddartha's--treasured since that night he fled.
(Ah, bitter Night! mother of weeping days!
When was fond Love so pitiless to love
Save that this scorned to limit love by life?)
The other led her little son, a boy
Divinely fair, the pledge Siddartha left--
Named Rahula--now seven years old, who tripped
Gladsome beside his mother, light of heart
To see the spring-blooms burgeon o'er the world.

     So while they lingered by the lotus-pools
And, lightly laughing, Rahula flung rice
To feed the blue and purple fish, and she
With sad eyes watched the swiftly-flying cranes,
Sighing, "O creatures of the wandering wing,
If ye shall light where my dear Lord is hid,
Say that Yasodhara lives nigh to death
For one word of his mouth, one touch of him."--
So, as they played and sighed, mother and child,
Came some among the damsels of the Court
Saying: "Great Princess! there have entered in
At the south gate merchants of Hastinpur
Tripusha called and Bhalluk, men of worth,
Long traveled from the loud sea's edge, who bring
Marvellous lovely webs pictured with gold,
Waved blades of gilded steel, wrought bowls in brass,
Cut ivories, spice, simples, and unknown birds
Treasures of far-off peoples; but they bring
That which doth beggar these, for He is seen!
Thy Lord,--our Lord,--the hope of all the land
Siddartha!  they have seen him face to face
Yea, and have worshipped him with knees and brows,
And offered offerings; for he is become
All which was shown, a teacher of the wise,
World-honoured, holy, wonderful; a Buddh
Who doth deliver men and save all flesh
By sweetest speech and pity vast as Heaven
And, lo! he journeyeth hither, these do say."

     Then--while the glad blood bounded in her veins
As Gunga leaps when first the mountain snows
Melt at her springs--uprose Yasodhara
And clapped her palms, and laughed, with brimming tears
Beading her lashes.  "Oh! call quick," she cried,
"These merchants to my purdah, for mine ears
Thirst like parched throats to drink their blessed news.
Go bring them in,--but if their tale be true,
Say I will fill their girdles with much gold,
With gems that kings shall envy; come ye too,
My girls, for ye shall have guerdon of this
If there be gifts to speak my grateful heart."

     So went those merchants to the Pleasure House,
Full softly pacing through its golden ways
With naked feet, amid the peering maids,
Much wondering at the glories of the Court.
Whom, when they came without the purdah's folds,
A voice, tender and eager, filled and charmed
With trembling music, saying: "Ye are come
From far, fair Sirs! and ye have seen my Lord--
Yea, worshipped--for he is become a Buddh,
World-honoured, holy, and delivers men,
And journeyeth hither.  Speak! for, if this be,
Friends are ye of my House, welcome and dear."

     Then answer made Tripusha: "We have seen
That sacred Master, Princess! we have bowed
Before his feet; for who was lost a Prince
Is found a greater than the King of kings.
Under the Bodhi-tree by Phalgu's bank
That which shall save the world hath late been wrought
By him--the Friend of all, the Prince of all--
Thine most, High Lady! from whose tears men win
The comfort of this Word the Master speaks.
Lo! he is well, as one beyond all ills,
Uplifted as a god from earthly woes,
Shining with risen Truth, golden and clear.
Moreover as he entereth town by town,
Preaching those noble ways which lead to peace,
The hearts of men follow his path as leaves
Troop to wind or sheep draw after one
Who knows the pastures.  We ourselves have heard
By Gaya in the green Tchirnika grove
Those wondrous lips and done them reverence.
He cometh hither ere the first rains fall."

     Thus spake he, and Yasodhara, for joy,
Scarce mastered breath to answer: "Be it well
Now and at all times with ye, worthy friends,
Who bring good tidings; but of this great thing
Wist ye how it befell?"

                    Then Bhalluk told
Such as the people of the valleys knew
Of that dread night of conflict, when the air
Darkened with fiendish shadows, and the earth
Quaked, and the waters swelled with Mara's wrath.
Also how gloriously that morning broke
Radiant with rising hopes for man, and how
The Lord was found rejoicing 'neath his Tree.
But many days the burden of release--
To be escaped beyond all storms of doubt,
Safe on Truth's shore--lay, spake he, on that heart
A golden load; for how shall men--Buddh mused--
Who love their sins and cleave to cheats of sense,
And drink of error from a thousand springs--
Having no mind to see, nor strength to break
The fleshly snare which binds them--how should such
Receive the Twelve Nidanas and the Law
Redeeming all, yet strange to profit by,
As the caged bird oft shuns its open door?
So had we missed the helpful victory
If, in this earth without a refuge, Buddh
Winning the way had deemed it all too hard
For mortal feet, and passed, none following him.
Yet pondered the compassion of our Lord,
But in that hour there rang a voice as sharp
As cry of travail, so as if the earth
Moaned in birth-throe "Nasyami aham bhu
Nasyati loka! Surely I Am Lost,
I And My Creatures:" then a pause, and next
A pleading sigh borne on the western wind,
"Sruyatam dharma, Bhagwat!"  Oh, Supreme
Let Thy Great Law Be Uttered!  Whereupon
The Master cast his vision forth on flesh,
Saw who should hear and who must wait to hear,
As the keen Sun gilding the lotus-lakes
Seeth which buds will open to his beams
And which are not yet risen from their roots;
Then spake, divinely smiling, "Yea, I preach!
Whoso will listen let him learn the Law."

     Afterwards passed he, said they, by the hills
Unto Benares, where he taught the Five,
Showing how birth and death should be destroyed,
And how man hath no fate except past deeds,
No Hell but what he makes, no Heaven too high
For those to reach whose passions sleep subdued.
This was the fifteenth day of Vaishya
Mid-afternoon and that night was full moon.

     But, of the Rishis, first Kaundinya
Owned the Four Truths and entered on the Paths;
And after him Bhadraka, Asvajit, Bassav, Mahanama;
     also there
Within the Deer-park, at the feet of Buddh,
Yasad the Prince with nobles fifty-four
Hearing the blessed word our Master spake
Worshipped and followed; for there sprang up peace
And knowledge of a new time come for men
In all who heard, as spring the flowers and grass
When water sparkles through a sandy plain.

     These sixty--said they--did our Lord send forth,
Made perfect in restraint and passion-free,
To teach the Way; but the World-honoured turned
South from the Deer-park and Isipatan
To Yashti and King Bimbasara's realm,
Where many days he taught; and after these
King Bimbasara and his folk believed,
Learning the law of love and ordered life.
Also he gave the Master, of free gift--
Pouring forth water on the hands of Buddh--
The Bamboo-Garden, named Weluvana,
Wherein are streams and caves and lovely glades;
And the King set a stone there, carved with this:

     "Ye dharma hetuppabhawa
     Yesan hetun Tathagato;
     Aha yesan cha yo nirodho
     Ewan wadi Maha samano.

     "What life's course and cause sustain
     These Tathagato made plain;
     What delivers from life's woe
     That our Lord hath made us know."

And, in that Garden--said they--there was held
A high Assembly, where the Teacher spake
Wisdom and power, winning all souls which heard,
So that nine hundred took the yellow robe--
Such as the Master wears,--and spread his Law;
And this the gatha was wherewith he closed:

     Sabba papassa akaranan;
     Kusalassa upasampada;
     Sa chitta pariyodapanan;
     Etan Budhanusasanan.

     "Evil swells the debts to pay,
     Good delivers and acquits;
     Shun evil, follow good; hold sway
     Over thyself.  This is the Way."

Whom, when they ended, speaking so of him,
With gifts, and thanks which made the jewels dull,
The Princess recompensed.  "But by what road
Wendeth my Lord?" she asked: the merchants said,
"Yojans threescore stretch from the city-walls
To Rajagriha, whence the easy path
Passeth by Sona hither and the hills.
Our oxen, treading eight slow koss a day,
Came in one moon."

          Then the King hearing word,
Sent nobles of the Court--well-mounted lords--
Nine separate messengers, each embassy
Bidden to say: "The King Suddhodana--
Nearer the pyre by seven long years of lack,
Wherethrough he hath not ceased to seek for thee--
Prays of his son to come unto his own,
The Throne and people of this longing Realm,
Lest he shall die and see thy face no more."
Also nine horsemen sent Yasodhara
Bidden to say, "The Princess of thy House--
Rahula's mother--craves to see thy face
As the night-blowing moon-flower's swelling heart
Pines for the moon, as pale asoka-buds
Wait for a woman's foot: if thou hast found
More than was lost, she prays her part in this,
Rahula's part, but most of all thyself."
So sped the Sakya Lords, but it befell
That each one, with the message in his mouth,
Entered the Bamboo-Garden in that hour
When Buddha taught his Law; and--hearing--each
Forgot to speak, lost thought of King and quest,
Of the sad Princess even; only gazed
Eye-rapt upon the Master; only hung
Heart-caught upon the speech, compassionate,
Commanding, perfect, pure, enlightening all,
Poured from those sacred lips.  Look! like a bee
Winged for the hive, who sees the mogras spread
And scents their utter sweetness on the air,
If he be honey-filled, it matters not;
If night be nigh, or rain, he will not heed;
Needs must he light on those delicious blooms
And drain their nectar; so these messengers
One with another, hearing Buddha's words,
Let go the purpose of their speed, and mixed,
Heedless of all, amid the Master's train.
Wherefore the King bade that Udayi go--
Chiefest in all the Court, and faithfullest,
Siddartha's playmate in the happier days--
Who, as he drew anear the garden, plucked
Blown tufts of tree-wool from the grove and sealed
The entrance of his hearing; thus he came
Safe through the lofty peril of the place
And told the message of the King, and hers.

     Then meekly bowed his head and spake our Lord
Before the people: "Surely I shall go!
It is my duty as it was my will;
Let no man miss to render reverence
To those who lend him life, whereby come means
To live and die no more, but safe attain
Blissful Nirvana, if ye keep the Law,
Purging past wrongs and adding nought thereto,
Complete in love and lovely charities.
Let the King know and let the Princess hear
I take the way forthwith."  This told, the folk
Of white Kapilavastu and its fields
Made ready for the entrance of their Prince.
At the south gate a bright pavilion rose
With flower-wreathed pillars and the walls of silk
Wrought on their red and green with woven gold.
Also the roads were laid with scented boughs
Of neem and mango, and full mussuks shed
Sandal and jasmine on the dust, and flags
Fluttered; and on the day when he should come
It was ordained how many elephants--
With silver howdahs and their tusks gold-tipped--
Should wait beyond the ford, and where the drums
Should boom "Siddartha cometh!" where the lords
Should light and worship, and the dancing-girls
Where they should strew their flowers with dance and song
So that the steed he rode might tramp knee-deep
In rose and balsam, and the ways be fair;
While the town rang with music and high joy.
This was ordained and all men's ears were pricked
Dawn after dawn to catch the first drum's beat
Announcing, "Now he cometh!"
But it fell Eager to be before--Yasodhara
Rode in her litter to the city-walls
Where soared the bright pavilion.  All around
A beauteous garden smiled--Nigrodha named--
Shaded with bel-trees and the green-plumed dates,
New-trimmed and gay with winding walks and banks
Of fruits and flowers; for the southern road
Skirted its lawns, on this hand leaf and bloom,
On that the suburb-huts where base-borns dwelt
Outside the gates, a patient folk and poor,
Whose touch for Kshatriya and priest of Brahm
Were sore defilement.  Yet those, too, were quick
With expectation, rising ere the dawn
To peer along the road, to climb the trees
At far-off trumpet of some elephant,
Or stir of temple-drum; and when none came,
Busied with lowly chores to please the Prince;
Sweeping their door-stones, setting forth their flags,
Stringing the fruited fig-leaves into chains,
New furbishing the Lingam, decking new
Yesterday's faded arc of boughs, but aye
Questioning wayfarers if any noise
Be on the road of great Siddartha.  These
The Princess marked with lovely languid eyes,
Watching, as they, the southward plain and bent
Like them to listen if the passers gave
News of the path.  So fell it she beheld
One slow approaching with his head close shorn,
A yellow cloth over his shoulder cast,
Girt as the hermits are, and in his hand
An earthen bowl, shaped melonwise, the which
Meekly at each hut-door he held a space,
Taking the granted dole with gentle thanks
And all as gently passing where none gave.
Two followed him wearing the yellow robe,
But he who bore the bowl so lordly seemed,
So reverend, and with such a passage moved,
With so commanding presence filled the air,
With such sweet eyes of holiness smote all,
That as they reached him alms the givers gazed
Awestruck upon his face, and some bent down
In worship, and some ran to fetch fresh gifts,
Grieved to be poor; till slowly, group by group,
Children and men and women drew behind
Into his steps, whispering with covered lips,
"Who is he? who? when looked a Rishi thus?"
But as he came with quiet footfall on
Nigh the pavilion, lo! the silken door
Lifted, and, all unveiled, Yasodhara
Stood in his path crying, "Siddartha!  Lord!"
With wide eyes streaming and with close-clasped hands,
Then sobbing fell upon his feet, and lay.

     Afterwards, when this weeping lady passed
Into the Noble Paths, and one had prayed
Answer from Buddha wherefore-being vowed
Quit of all mortal passion and the touch,
Flower-soft and conquering, of a woman's hands--
He suffered such embrace, the Master said
"The greater beareth with the lesser love
So it may raise it unto easier heights.
Take heed that no man, being 'soaped from bonds,
Vexeth bound souls with boasts of liberty.
Free are ye rather that your freedom spread
By patient winning and sweet wisdom's skill.
Three eras of long toil bring Bodhisats--
Who will be guides and help this darkling world--
Unto deliverance, and the first is named
Of deep 'Resolve,' the second of 'Attempt,'
The third of 'Nomination.'  Lo!  I lived
In era of Resolve, desiring good,
Searching for wisdom, but mine eyes were sealed.
Count the grey seeds on yonder castor-clump--
So many rains it is since I was Ram,
A merchant of the coast which looketh south
To Lanka and the hiding-place of pearls.
Also in that far time Yasodhara
Dwelt with me in our village by the sea,
Tender as now, and Lukshmi was her name.
And I remember how I journeyed thence
Seeking our gain, for poor the household was
And lowly.  Not the less with wistful tears
She prayed me that I should not part, nor tempt
Perils by land and water.  'How could love
Leave what it loved?' she wailed; yet, venturing, I
Passed to the Straits, and after storm and toil
And deadly strife with creatures of the deep,
And woes beneath the midnight and the noon,
Searching the wave I won therefrom a pearl
Moonlike and glorious, such as kings might buy
Emptying their treasury.  Then came I glad
Unto mine hills, but over all that land
Famine spread sore; ill was I stead to live
In journey home, and hardly reached my door--
Aching for food--with that white wealth of the sea
Tied in my girdle.  Yet no food was there;
And on the threshold she for whom I toiled--
More than myself--lay with her speechless lips
Nigh unto death for one small gift of grain.
Then cried I, 'If there be who hath of grain,
Here is a kingdom's ransom for one life
Give Lukshmi bread and take my moonlight pearl.'
Whereat one brought the last of all his hoard,
Millet--three seers--and clutched the beauteous thing.
But Lukshmi lived and sighed with gathered life,
'Lo! thou didst love indeed!' I spent my pearl
Well in that life to comfort heart and mind
Else quite uncomforted; but these pure pearls,
My last large gain, won from a deeper wave--
The Twelve Nidanas and the Law of Good--
Cannot be spent, nor dimmed, and most fulfil
Their perfect beauty being freeliest given.
For like as is to Meru yonder hill
Heaped by the little ants, and like as dew
Dropped in the footmark of a bounding roe
Unto the shoreless seas, so was that gift
Unto my present giving; and so love--
Vaster in being free from toils of sense--
Was wisest stooping to the weaker heart;
And so the feet of sweet Yasodhara
Passed into peace and bliss, being softly led."

     But when the King heard how Siddartha came
Shorn, with the mendicant's sad-coloured cloth,
And stretching out a bowl to gather orts
From base-borns' leavings, wrathful sorrow drove
Love from his heart.  Thrice on the ground he spat,
Plucked at his silvered beard, and strode straight forth
Lackeyed by trembling lords.  Frowning he clomb
Upon his war-horse, drove the spurs, and dashed,
Angered, through wondering streets and lanes of folk.
Scarce finding breath to say, "The King! bow down!"
Ere the loud cavalcade had clattered by:
Which--at the turning by the Temple-wall
Where the south gate was seen--encountered full
A mighty crowd; to every edge of it
Poured fast more people, till the roads were lost,
Blotted by that huge company which thronged
And grew, close following him whose look serene
Met the old King's.  Nor lived the father's wrath
Longer than while the gentle eyes of Buddh
Lingered in worship on his troubled brows,
Then downcast sank, with his true knee, to earth
In proud humility.  So dear it seemed
To see the Prince, to know him whole, to mark
That glory greater than of earthly state
Crowning his head, that majesty which brought
All men, so awed and silent, in his steps.
Nathless the King broke forth: "Ends it in this,
That great Siddartha steals into his realm,
Wrapped in a clout, shorn, sandalled, craving food
Of low-borns, he whose life was as a god's,
My son! heir of this spacious power, and heir
Of Kings who did but clap their palms to have
What earth could give or eager service bring?
Thou should'st have come apparelled in thy rank,
With shining spears and tramp of horse and foot.
Lo! all my soldiers camped upon the road,
And all my city waited at the gates;
Where hast thou sojourned through these evil years
Whilst thy crowned father mourned? and she, too, there
Lived as the widows use, foregoing joys;
Never once hearing sound of song or string,
Nor wearing once the festal robe, till now
When in her cloth of gold she welcomes home
A beggar spouse in yellow remnants clad.
Son! why is this?"

           "My father!" came reply,
"It is the custom of my race."

                     "Thy race,"
Answered the King "counteth a hundred thrones
From Maha Sammat, but no deed like this."

     "Not of a mortal line," the Master said,
"I spake, but of descent invisible,
The Buddhas who have been and who shall be:
Of these am I, and what they did I do,
And this which now befalls so fell before,
That at his gate a King in warrior-mail
Should meet his son, a Prince in hermit-weeds;
And that, by love and self-control, being more
Than mightiest Kings in all their puissance,
The appointed Helper of the Worlds should bow--
As now do I--and with all lowly love
Proffer, where it is owed for tender debts,
The first-fruits of the treasure he hath brought;
Which now I proffer."

                Then the King amazed
Inquired "What treasure?" and the Teacher took
Meekly the royal palm, and while they paced
Through worshipping streets--the Princess and the King
On either side--he told the things which make
For peace and pureness, those Four noble Truths
Which hold all wisdom as shores shut the seas,
Those Eight right Rules whereby who will may walk--
Monarch or slave--upon the perfect Path
That hath its Stages Four and Precepts Eight,
Whereby whoso will live--mighty or mean
Wise or unlearned, man, woman, young or old
Shall soon or late break from the wheels of life,
Attaining blest Nirvana.  So they came
Into the Palace-porch, Suddhodana
With brows unknit drinking the mighty words,
And in his own hand carrying Buddha's bowl,
Whilst a new light brightened the lovely eyes
Of sweet Yasodhara and sunned her tears;
And that night entered they the Way of Peace.




Book The Eighth



A broad mead spreads by swift Kohana's bank
At Nagara; five days shall bring a man
In ox-wain thither from Benares' shrines
Eastward and northward journeying.  The horns
Of white Himala look upon the place,
Which all the year is glad with blooms and girt
By groves made green from that bright streamlet's wave.
Soft are its slopes and cool its fragrant shades,
And holy all the spirit of the spot
Unto this time: the breath of eve comes hushed
Over the tangled thickets, and high heaps
Of carved red stones cloven by root and stem
Of creeping fig, and clad with waving veil
Of leaf and grass.  The still snake glistens forth
From crumbled work of lac and cedar-beams
To coil his folds there on deep-graven slabs;
The lizard dwells and darts o'er painted floors
Where kings have paced; the grey fox litters safe
Under the broken thrones; only the peaks,
And stream, and sloping lawns, and gentle air
Abide unchanged.  All else, like all fair shows
Of life, are fled--for this is where it stood,
The city of Suddhodana, the hill
Whereon, upon an eve of gold and blue
At sinking sun Lord Buddha set himself
To teach the Law in hearing of his own.

Lo! ye shall read it in the Sacred Books
How, being met in that glad pleasaunce-place--
A garden in old days with hanging walks,
Fountains, and tanks, and rose-banked terraces
Girdled by gay pavilions and the sweep
Of stately palace-fronts--the Master sate
Eminent, worshipped, all the earnest throng
Catching the opening of his lips to learn
That wisdom which hath made our Asia mild;
Whereto four hundred crores of living souls
Witness this day.  Upon the King's right hand
He sate, and round were ranged the Sakya Lords
Ananda, Devadatta--all the Court.
Behind stood Seriyut and Mugallan, chiefs
Of the calm brethren in the yellow garb,
A goodly company.  Between his knees
Rahula smiled with wondering childish eyes
Bent on the awful face, while at his feet
Sate sweet Yasodhara, her heartaches gone,
Foreseeing that fair love which doth not feed
On fleeting sense, that life which knows no age,
That blessed last of deaths when Death is dead,
His victory and hers.  Wherefore she laid
Her hand upon his hands, folding around
Her silver shoulder-cloth his yellow robe,
Nearest in all the world to him whose words
The Three Worlds waited for.  I cannot tell
A small part of the splendid lore which broke
From Buddha's lips: I am a late-come scribe
Who love the Master and his love of men,
And tell this legend, knowing he was wise,
But have not wit to speak beyond the books;
And time hath blurred their script and ancient sense,
Which once was new and mighty, moving all.
A little of that large discourse I know
Which Buddha spake on the soft Indian eve.
Also I know it writ that they who heard
Were more--lakhs more--crores more--than could be seen,
For all the Devas and the Dead thronged there,
Till Heaven was emptied to the seventh zone
And uttermost dark Hells opened their bars;
Also the daylight lingered past its time
In rose-leaf radiance on the watching peaks,
So that it seemed night listened in the glens,
And noon upon the mountains; yea! they write,
The evening stood between them like some maid
Celestial, love-struck, rapt; the smooth-rolled clouds
Her braided hair; the studded stars the pearls
And diamonds of her coronal; the moon
Her forehead jewel, and the deepening dark
Her woven garments.  'T was her close-held breath
Which came in scented sighs across the lawns
While our Lord taught, and, while he taught, who heard--
Though he were stranger in the land, or slave,
High caste or low, come of the Aryan blood,
Or Mlech or Jungle-dweller--seemed to hear
What tongue his fellows talked.  Nay, outside those
Who crowded by the river, great and small,
The birds and beasts and creeping things--'t is writ--
Had sense of Buddha's vast embracing love
And took the promise of his piteous speech;
So that their lives--prisoned in shape of ape,
Tiger, or deer, shagged bear, jackal, or wolf,
Foul-feeding kite, pearled dove, or peacock gemmed,
Squat toad, or speckled serpent, lizard, bat,
Yea, or of fish fanning the river waves--
Touched meekly at the skirts of brotherhood
With man who hath less innocence than these;
And in mute gladness knew their bondage broke
Whilst Buddha spake these things before the King:

Om, Amitaya! measure not with words
     Th' Immeasurable; nor sink the string of thought
Into the Fathomless.  Who asks doth err,
     Who answers, errs.  Say nought!

The Books teach Darkness was, at first of all,
     And Brahm, sole meditating in that Night;
Look not for Brahm and the Beginning there!
     Nor him, nor any light

Shall any gazer see with mortal eyes,
     Or any searcher know by mortal mind,
Veil after veil will lift--but there must be
     Veil upon veil behind.

Stars sweep and question not.  This is enough
     That life and death and joy and woe abide;
And cause and sequence, and the course of time,
     And Being's ceaseless tide,

Which, ever-changing, runs, linked like a river
     By ripples following ripples, fast or slow--
The same yet not the same--from far-off fountain
     To where its waters flow

Into the seas.  These, steaming to the Sun,
     Give the lost wavelets back in cloudy fleece
To trickle down the hills, and glide again;
     Having no pause or peace.

This is enough to know, the phantasms are;
     The Heavens, Earths, Worlds, and changes changing them
A mighty whirling wheel of strife and stress
     Which none can stay or stem.

Pray not! the Darkness will not brighten!
     Ask Nought from the Silence, for it cannot speak!
Vex not your mournful minds with pious pains!
     Ah! Brothers, Sisters! seek

Nought from the helpless gods by gift and hymn,
     Nor bribe with blood, nor feed with fruit and cakes;
Within yourselves deliverance must be sought;
     Each man his prison makes.

Each hath such lordship as the loftiest ones;
      Nay, for with Powers above, around, below,
As with all flesh and whatsoever lives,
      Act maketh joy and woe.

What hath been bringeth what shall be, and is,
      Worse--better--last for first and first for last;
The Angels in the Heavens of Gladness reap
      Fruits of a holy past.

The devils in the underworlds wear out
     Deeds that were wicked in an age gone by.
Nothing endures: fair virtues waste with time,
     Foul sins grow purged thereby.

Who toiled a slave may come anew a Prince
     For gentle worthiness and merit won;
Who ruled a King may wander earth in rags
     For things done and undone.

Higher than Indra's ye may lift your lot,
     And sink it lower than the worm or gnat;
The end of many myriad lives is this,
     The end of myriads that.

Only, while turns this wheel invisible,
     No pause, no peace, no staying-place can be;
Who mounts will fall, who falls may mount; the spokes
     Go round unceasingly!


If ye lay bound upon the wheel of change,
     And no way were of breaking from the chain,
The Heart of boundless Being is a curse,
     The Soul of Things fell Pain.

Ye are not bound! the Soul of Things is sweet,
     The Heart of Being is celestial rest;
Stronger than woe is will: that which was Good
     Doth pass to Better--Best.

I, Buddh, who wept with all my brothers' tears,
     Whose heart was broken by a whole world's woe,
     Laugh and am glad, for there is Liberty
Ho! ye who suffer! know

Ye suffer from yourselves.  None else compels
     None other holds you that ye live and die,
And whirl upon the wheel, and hug and kiss
     Its spokes of agony,

Its tire of tears, its nave of nothingness.
     Behold, I show you Truth!  Lower than hell,
Higher than heaven, outside the utmost stars,
     Farther than Brahm doth dwell,

Before beginning, and without an end,
     As space eternal and as surety sure,
Is fixed a Power divine which moves to good,
     Only its laws endure.

This is its touch upon the blossomed rose,
     The fashion of its hand shaped lotus-leaves;
In dark soil and the silence of the seeds
     The robe of Spring it weaves;

That is its painting on the glorious clouds,
     And these its emeralds on the peacock's train;
It hath its stations in the stars;
     Its slaves in lightning, wind, and rain.

Out of the dark it wrought the heart of man,
     Out of dull shells the pheasant's pencilled neck;
Ever at toil, it brings to loveliness
     All ancient wrath and wreck.

The grey eggs in the golden sun-bird's nest
     Its treasures are, the bees' six-sided cell
Its honey-pot; the ant wots of its ways,
     The white doves know them well.

It spreadeth forth for flight the eagle's wings
     What time she beareth home her prey; it sends
The she-wolf to her cubs; for unloved things
   It findeth food and friends.

It is not marred nor stayed in any use,
     All liketh it; the sweet white milk it brings
To mothers' breasts; it brings the white drops, too,
     Wherewith the young snake stings.

The ordered music of the marching orbs
     It makes in viewless canopy of sky;
In deep abyss of earth it hides up gold,
     Sards, sapphires, lazuli.

Ever and ever bringing secrets forth,
     It sitteth in the green of forest-glades
Nursing strange seedlings at the cedar's root,
     Devising leaves, blooms, blades.

It slayeth and it saveth, nowise moved
     Except unto the working out of doom;
Its threads are Love and Life; and Death and Pain
     The shuttles of its loom.

It maketh and unmaketh, mending all;
     What it hath wrought is better than hath been;
Slow grows the splendid pattern that it plans
     Its wistful hands between.

This is its work upon the things ye see,
     The unseen things are more; men's hearts and minds,
The thoughts of peoples and their ways and wills,
     Those, too, the great Law binds.

Unseen it helpeth ye with faithful hands,
     Unheard it speaketh stronger than the storm.
Pity and Love are man's because long stress
     Moulded blind mass to form.

It will not be contemned of any one;
     Who thwarts it loses, and who serves it gains;
The hidden good it pays with peace and bliss,
     The hidden ill with pains.

It seeth everywhere and marketh all
     Do right--it recompenseth! do one wrong--
The equal retribution must be made,
     Though DHARMA tarry long.

It knows not wrath nor pardon; utter-true
     Its measures mete, its faultless balance weighs;
Times are as nought, tomorrow it will judge,
     Or after many days.

By this the slayer's knife did stab himself;
     The unjust judge hath lost his own defender;
The false tongue dooms its lie; the creeping thief
     And spoiler rob, to render.

Such is the Law which moves to righteousness,
     Which none at last can turn aside or stay;
The heart of it is Love, the end of it
     Is Peace and Consummation sweet.  Obey!


The Books say well, my Brothers! each man's life
     The outcome of his former living is;
The bygone wrongs bring forth sorrows and woes
     The bygone right breeds bliss.

That which ye sow ye reap.  See yonder fields
     The sesamum was sesamum, the corn
Was corn.  The Silence and the Darkness knew!
     So is a man's fate born.

He cometh, reaper of the things he sowed,
     Sesamum, corn, so much cast in past birth;
And so much weed and poison-stuff, which mar
     Him and the aching earth.

If he shall labour rightly, rooting these,
     And planting wholesome seedlings where they grew,
Fruitful and fair and clean the ground shall be,
     And rich the harvest due.

If he who liveth, learning whence woe springs,
     Endureth patiently, striving to pay
His utmost debt for ancient evils done
     In Love and Truth alway;

If making none to lack, he throughly purge
     The lie and lust of self forth from his blood;
Suffering all meekly, rendering for offence
     Nothing but grace and good;

If he shall day by day dwell merciful,
     Holy and just and kind and true; and rend
Desire from where it clings with bleeding roots,
     Till love of life have end:

He--dying--leaveth as the sum of him
     A life-count closed, whose ills are dead and quit,
Whose good is quick and mighty, far and near,
     So that fruits follow it.

No need hath such to live as ye name life;
     That which began in him when he began
Is finished: he hath wrought the purpose through
     Of what did make him Man.

Never shall yearnings torture him, nor sins
     Stain him, nor ache of earthly joys and woes
Invade his safe eternal peace; nor deaths
     And lives recur.  He goes

Unto NIRVANA!  He is one with life
     Yet lives not.  He is blest, ceasing to be.
OM, MANI PADME, OM! the Dewdrop slips
     Into the shining sea!


This is the doctrine of the KARMA.  Learn!
     Only when all the dross of sin is quit,
Only when life dies like a white flame spent
     Death dies along with it.

Say not "I am," "I was," or "I shall be,"
     Think not ye pass from house to house of flesh
Like travelers who remember and forget,
     Ill-lodged or well-lodged.  Fresh

Issues upon the Universe that sum
     Which is the lattermost of lives.
It makes Its habitation as the worm spins silk
     And dwells therein.  It takes

Function and substance as the snake's egg hatched
     Takes scale and fang; as feathered reedseeds fly
O'er rock and loam and sand, until they find
     Their marsh and multiply.

Also it issues forth to help or hurt.
     When Death the bitter murderer doth smite,
Red roams the unpurged fragment of him, driven
     On wings of plague and blight.

But when the mild and just die, sweet airs breathe;
     The world grows richer, as if desert-stream
Should sink away to sparkle up again
     Purer, with broader gleam.

So merit won winneth the happier age
     Which by demerit halteth short of end;
Yet must this Law of Love reign King of all
     Before the Kalpas end.

What lets?--Brothers?  the Darkness lets! which breeds
     Ignorance, mazed whereby ye take these shows
For true, and thirst to have, and, having, cling
     To lusts which work you woes.

Ye that will tread the Middle Road, whose course
     Bright Reason traces and soft
Quiet smoothes; Ye who will take the high Nirvana-way,
     List the Four Noble Truths.

The First Truth is of Sorrow. Be not mocked!
     Life which ye prize is long-drawn agony:
Only its pains abide; its pleasures are
     As birds which light and fly,

Ache of the birth, ache of the helpless days,
     Ache of hot youth and ache of manhood's prime;
Ache of the chill grey years and choking death,
     These fill your piteous time.

Sweet is fond Love, but funeral-flames must kiss
     The breasts which pillow and the lips which cling;
Gallant is warlike Might, but vultures pick
     The joints of chief and King.

Beauteous is Earth, but all its forest-broods
     Plot mutual slaughter, hungering to live;
Of sapphire are the skies, but when men cry
     Famished, no drops they give.

Ask of the sick, the mourners, ask of him
     Who tottereth on his staff, lone and forlorn,
"Liketh thee life?"--these say the babe is wise
     That weepeth, being born.

The Second Truth is Sorrow's Cause.  What grief
     Springs of itself and springs not of Desire?
Senses and things perceived mingle and light
     Passion's quick spark of fire:

So flameth Trishna, lust and thirst of things.
     Eager ye cleave to shadows, dote on dreams.
A false Self in the midst ye plant, and make
     A world around which seems;

Blind to the height beyond, deaf to the sound
     Of sweet airs breathed from far past Indra's sky;
Dumb to the summons of the true life kept
     For him who false puts by.

So grow the strifes and lusts which make earth's war,
     So grieve poor cheated hearts and flow salt tears;
So wag the passions, envies, angers, hates;
     So years chase blood-stained years

With wild red feet.  So, where the grain should grow,
     Spreads the biran-weed with its evil root
And poisonous blossoms; hardly good seeds find
     Soil where to fall and shoot;

And drugged with poisonous drink the soul departs,
     And fierce with thirst to drink Karma returns;
Sense-struck again the sodden self begins,
     And new deceits it earns

The Third is Sorrow's Ceasing.  This is peace--
     To conquer love of self and lust of life,
To tear deep-rooted passion from the breast,
     To still the inward strife;

For love, to clasp Eternal Beauty close;
     For glory, to be lord of self; for pleasure,
To live beyond the gods; for countless wealth,
     To lay up lasting treasure

Of perfect service rendered, duties done
     In charity, soft speech, and stainless days
These riches shall not fade away in life,
     Nor any death dispraise.

Then Sorrow ends, for Life and Death have ceased;
     How should lamps flicker when their oil is spent?
The old sad count is clear, the new is clean;
     Thus hath a man content.


The Fourth Truth is The Way. It openeth wide,
     Plain for all feet to tread, easy and near,
The Noble Eightfold Path; it goeth straight
     To peace and refuge.  Hear!

Manifold tracks lead to yon sister-peaks
     Around whose snows the gilded clouds are curled
By steep or gentle slopes the climber comes
     Where breaks that other world.

Strong limbs may dare the rugged road which storms,
     Soaring and perilous, the mountain's breast;
The weak must wind from slower ledge to ledge
     With many a place of rest.

So is the Eightfold Path which brings to peace;
     By lower or by upper heights it goes.
The firm soul hastes, the feeble tarries.  All
     Will reach the sunlit snows.

The First good Level is Right Doctrine.
     Walk In fear of Dharma, shunning all offence;
In heed of Karma, which doth make man's fate;
     In lordship over sense.

The Second is Right Purpose.  Have good-will
     To all that lives, letting unkindness die
And greed and wrath; so that your lives be made
     Like soft airs passing by.

The Third is Right Discourse.  Govern the lips
     As they were palace-doors, the King within;
Tranquil and fair and courteous be all words
     Which from that presence win.

The Fourth is Right Behavior.  Let each act
     Assoil a fault or help a merit grow;
Like threads of silver seen through crystal beads
     Let love through good deeds show.

Four higher roadways be.    Only those feet
     May tread them which have done with earthly things--
Right Purity, Right Thought, Right Loneliness,
     Right Rapture.  Spread no wings

For sunward flight, thou soul with unplumed vans
     Sweet is the lower air and safe, and known
The homely levels: only strong ones leave
     The nest each makes his own.

Dear is the love, I know, of Wife and Child;
     Pleasant the friends and pastimes of your years;
Fruitful of good Life's gentle charities;
     False, though firm-set, its fears.

Live--ye who must--such lives as live on these;
     Make golden stair-ways of your weakness; rise
By daily sojourn with those phantasies
     To lovelier verities.

So shall ye pass to clearer heights and find
     Easier ascents and lighter loads of sins,
And larger will to burst the bonds of sense,
     Entering the Path.  Who wins

To such commencement hath the First Stage touched;
     He knows the Noble Truths, the Eightfold Road;
By few or many steps such shall attain
     NIRVANA's blest abode.

Who standeth at the Second Stage, made free
     From doubts, delusions, and the inward strife,
Lord of all lusts, quit of the priests and books,
     Shall live but one more life.

Yet onward lies the Third Stage: purged and pure
     Hath grown the stately spirit here, hath risen
To love all living things in perfect peace.
      His life at end, life's prison

Is broken.  Nay, there are who surely pass
     Living and visible to utmost goal
By Fourth Stage of the Holy ones--the Buddhs--
     And they of stainless soul.

Lo! like fierce foes slain by some warrior,
     Ten sins along these Stages lie in dust,
The Love of Self, False Faith, and Doubt are three,
     Two more, Hatred and Lust.

Who of these Five is conqueror hath trod
     Three stages out of Four: yet there abide
The Love of Life on earth, Desire for Heaven,
     Self-Praise, Error, and Pride.

As one who stands on yonder snowy horn
     Having nought o'er him but the boundless blue,
So, these sins being slain, the man is come
     NIRVANA's verge unto.

Him the Gods envy from their lower seats;
     Him the Three Worlds in ruin should not shake;
All life is lived for him, all deaths are dead;
     Karma will no more make

New houses.  Seeking nothing, he gains all;
     Foregoing self, the Universe grows "I":
If any teach NIRVANA is to cease,
     Say unto such they lie.

If any teach NIRVANA is to live,
     Say unto such they err; not knowing this,
Nor what light shines beyond their broken lamps,
     Nor lifeless, timeless bliss.

Enter the Path!  There is no grief like Hate!
     No pains like passions, no deceit like sense!
Enter the Path! far hath he gone whose foot
     Treads down one fond offence.

Enter the Path!  There spring the healing streams
     Quenching all thirst! there bloom th' immortal flowers
Carpeting all the way with joy! there throng,
     Swiftest and sweetest hours!


More is the treasure of the Law than gems;
     Sweeter than comb its sweetness; its delights
Delightful past compare.  Thereby to live
     Hear the Five Rules aright:--

Kill not--for Pity's sake--and lest ye slay
The meanest thing upon its upward way.

Give freely and receive, but take from none
By greed, or force, or fraud, what is his own.

Bear not false witness, slander not, nor lie;
Truth is the speech of inward purity.

Shun drugs and drinks which work the wit abuse;
Clear minds, clean bodies, need no soma juice.

Touch not thy neighbour's wife, neither commit
Sins of the flesh unlawful and unfit.

These words the Master spake of duties due
To father, mother, children, fellows, friends;
Teaching how such as may not swiftly break
The clinging chains of sense--whose feet are weak
To tread the higher road--should order so
This life of flesh that all their hither days
Pass blameless in discharge of charities
And first true footfalls in the Eightfold Path;
Living pure, reverent, patient, pitiful,
Loving all things which live even as themselves;
Because what falls for ill is fruit of ill
Wrought in the past, and what falls well of good;
And that by howsomuch the householder
Purgeth himself of self and helps the world,
By so much happier comes he to next stage,
In so much bettered being.  This he spake,
As also long before, when our Lord walked
By Rajagriha in the Bamboo-Grove
For on a dawn he walked there and beheld
The householder Singala, newly bathed,
Bowing himself with bare head to the earth,
To Heaven, and all four quarters; while he threw
Rice, red and white, from both hands.  "Wherefore thus
Bowest thou, Brother?" said the Lord; and he,
"It is the way, Great Sir! our fathers taught
At every dawn, before the toil begins,
To hold off evil from the sky above
And earth beneath, and all the winds which blow."
Then the World-honoured spake: "Scatter not rice,
But offer loving thoughts and acts to all.
To parents as the East where rises light;
To teachers as the South whence rich gifts come;
To wife and children as the West where gleam
Colours of love and calm, and all days end;
To friends and kinsmen and all men as North;
To humblest living things beneath, to Saints
And Angels and the blessed Dead above
So shall all evil be shut off, and so
The six main quarters will be safely kept."

But to his own, them of the yellow robe
They who, as wakened eagles, soar with scorn
From life's low vale, and wing towards the Sun
To these he taught the Ten Observances
The Dasa-Sil, and how a mendicant
Must know the Three Doors and the Triple Thoughts;
The Sixfold States of Mind; the Fivefold Powers;
The Eight High Gates of Purity; the Modes
Of Understanding; Iddhi; Upeksha;
The Five Great Meditations, which are food
Sweeter than Amrit for the holy soul;
The Jhana's and the Three Chief Refuges.
Also he taught his own how they should dwell;
How live, free from the snares of love and wealth;
What eat and drink and carry--three plain cloths,
Yellow, of stitched stuff, worn with shoulder bare
A girdle, almsbowl, strainer.  Thus he laid
The great foundations of our Sangha well,
That noble Order of the Yellow Robe
Which to this day standeth to help the World.

     So all that night he spake, teaching the Law
And on no eyes fell sleep--for they who heard
Rejoiced with tireless joy.  Also the King,
When this was finished, rose upon his throne
And with bared feet bowed low before his Son
Kissing his hem; and said, "Take me, O Son!
Lowest and least of all thy Company."
And sweet Yasodhara, all happy now,--
Cried "Give to Rahula--thou Blessed One!
The Treasure of the Kingdom of thy Word
For his inheritance."   Thus passed these Three
Into the Path.
------------

Here endeth what I write
Who love the Master for his love of us,
A little knowing, little have I told
Touching the Teacher and the Ways of Peace.
Forty-five rains thereafter showed he those
In many lands and many tongues and gave
Our Asia light, that still is beautiful,
Conquering the world with spirit of strong grace
All which is written in the holy Books,
And where he passed and what proud Emperors
Carved his sweet words upon the rocks and caves:
And how--in fulness of the times--it fell
The Buddha died, the great Tathagato,
Even as a man 'mongst men, fulfilling all
And how a thousand thousand crores since then
Have trod the Path which leads whither he went
Unto NIRVANA where the Silence lives.

     Ah! Blessed Lord!  Oh, High Deliverer!
Forgive this feeble script, which doth thee wrong.
Measuring with little wit thy lofty love.
Ah!  Lover!  Brother!  Guide!  Lamp of the law!
I take my refuge in they name and thee!
I take my refuge in they order!  OM!
The dew is on the lotus!--Rise, Great Sun!
And lift my leaf and mix me with the wave.
Om Mani Padme Hum, the sunrise comes!
The Dewdrop Slips Into The Shining Sea!


The End





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Light of Asia, by Sir Edwin Arnold





Produced by John Bickers and Dagny




                             L'ASSOMMOIR

                                  BY

                              EMILE ZOLA



                              CHAPTER I.

Gervaise had waited up for Lantier until two in the morning. Then,
shivering from having remained in a thin loose jacket, exposed to the
fresh air at the window, she had thrown herself across the bed,
drowsy, feverish, and her cheeks bathed in tears.

For a week past, on leaving the "Two-Headed Calf," where they took
their meals, he had sent her home with the children and never
reappeared himself till late at night, alleging that he had been in
search of work. That evening, while watching for his return, she
thought she had seen him enter the dancing-hall of the "Grand-
Balcony," the ten blazing windows of which lighted up with the glare
of a conflagration the dark expanse of the exterior Boulevards; and
five or six paces behind him, she had caught sight of little Adele, a
burnisher, who dined at the same restaurant, swinging her hands, as if
she had just quitted his arm so as not to pass together under the
dazzling light of the globes at the door.

When, towards five o'clock, Gervaise awoke, stiff and sore, she broke
forth into sobs. Lantier had not returned. For the first time he had
slept away from home. She remained seated on the edge of the bed,
under the strip of faded chintz, which hung from the rod fastened to
the ceiling by a piece of string. And slowly, with her eyes veiled by
tears, she glanced round the wretched lodging, furnished with a walnut
chest of drawers, minus one drawer, three rush-bottomed chairs, and a
little greasy table, on which stood a broken water-jug. There had been
added, for the children, an iron bedstead, which prevented any one
getting to the chest of drawers, and filled two-thirds of the room.
Gervaise's and Lantier's trunk, wide open, in one corner, displayed
its emptiness, and a man's old hat right at the bottom almost buried
beneath some dirty shirts and socks; whilst, against the walls, above
the articles of furniture, hung a shawl full of holes, and a pair of
trousers begrimed with mud, the last rags which the dealers in second-
hand clothes declined to buy. In the centre of the mantel-piece, lying
between two odd zinc candle-sticks, was a bundle of pink pawn-tickets.
It was the best room of the hotel, the first floor room, looking on to
the Boulevard.

The two children were sleeping side by side, with their heads on the
same pillow. Claude, aged eight years, was breathing quietly, with his
little hands thrown outside the coverlet; while Etienne, only four
years old, was smiling, with one arm round his brother's neck! And
bare-footed, without thinking to again put on the old shoes that had
fallen on the floor, she resumed her position at the window, her eyes
searching the pavements in the distance.

The hotel was situated on the Boulevard de la Chapelle, to the left of
the Barriere Poissonniere. It was a building of two stories high,
painted a red, of the color of wine dregs, up to the second floor, and
with shutters all rotted by the rain. Over a lamp with starred panes
of glass, one could manage to read, between the two windows, the
words, "Hotel Boncoeur, kept by Marsoullier," painted in big yellow
letters, several pieces of which the moldering of the plaster had
carried away. The lamp preventing her seeing, Gervaise raised herself
on tiptoe, still holding the handkerchief to her lips. She looked to
the right, towards the Boulevard Rochechouart, where groups of
butchers, in aprons smeared with blood, were hanging about in front of
the slaughter-houses; and the fresh breeze wafted occasionally a
stench of slaughtered beasts. Looking to the left, she scanned a long
avenue that ended nearly in front of her, where the white mass of the
Lariboisiere Hospital was then in course of construction. Slowly, from
one end of the horizon to the other, she followed the octroi wall,
behind which she sometimes heard, during night time, the shrieks of
persons being murdered; and she searchingly looked into the remote
angles, the dark corners, black with humidity and filth, fearing to
discern there Lantier's body, stabbed to death.

She looked at the endless gray wall that surrounded the city with its
belt of desolation. When she raised her eyes higher, she became aware
of a bright burst of sunlight. The dull hum of the city's awakening
already filled the air. Craning her neck to look at the Poissonniere
gate, she remained for a time watching the constant stream of men,
horses, and carts which flooded down from the heights of Montmartre
and La Chapelle, pouring between the two squat octroi lodges. It was
like a herd of plodding cattle, an endless throng widened by sudden
stoppages into eddies that spilled off the sidewalks into the street,
a steady procession of laborers on their way back to work with tools
slung over their back and a loaf of bread under their arm. This human
inundation kept pouring down into Paris to be constantly swallowed up.
Gervaise leaned further out at the risk of falling when she thought
she recognized Lantier among the throng. She pressed the handkerchief
tighter against her mouth, as though to push back the pain within her.

The sound of a young and cheerful voice caused her to leave the
window.

"So the old man isn't here, Madame Lantier?"

"Why, no, Monsieur Coupeau," she replied, trying to smile.

Coupeau, a zinc-worker who occupied a ten franc room on the top floor,
having seen the door unlocked, had walked in as friends will do.

"You know," he continued, "I'm now working over there in the hospital.
What beautiful May weather, isn't it? The air is rather sharp this
morning."

And he looked at Gervaise's face, red with weeping. When he saw that
the bed had not been slept in, he shook his head gently; then he went
to the children's couch where they were sleeping, looking as rosy as
cherubs, and, lowering his voice, he said,

"Come, the old man's not been home, has he? Don't worry yourself,
Madame Lantier. He's very much occupied with politics. When they were
voting for Eugene Sue the other day, he was acting almost crazy. He
has very likely spent the night with some friends blackguarding
crapulous Bonaparte."

"No, no," she murmured with an effort. "You don't think that. I know
where Lantier is. You see, we have our little troubles like the rest
of the world!"

Coupeau winked his eye, to indicate he was not a dupe of this
falsehood; and he went off, after offering to fetch her milk, if she
did not care to go out: she was a good and courageous woman, and might
count upon him on any day of trouble.

As soon as he was gone, Gervaise again returned to the window. At the
Barriere, the tramp of the drove still continued in the morning air:
locksmiths in short blue blouses, masons in white jackets, house
painters in overcoats over long smocks. From a distance the crowd
looked like a chalky smear of neutral hue composed chiefly of faded
blue and dingy gray. When one of the workers occasionally stopped to
light his pipe the others kept plodding past him, without sparing a
laugh or a word to a comrade. With cheeks gray as clay, their eyes
were continually drawn toward Paris which was swallowing them one by
one.

At both corners of the Rue des Poissonniers however, some of the men
slackened their pace as they neared the doors of the two wine-dealers
who were taking down their shutters; and, before entering, they stood
on the edge of the pavement, looking sideways over Paris, with no
strength in their arms and already inclined for a day of idleness.
Inside various groups were already buying rounds of drinks, or just
standing around, forgetting their troubles, crowding up the place,
coughing, spitting, clearing their throats with sip after sip.

Gervaise was watching Pere Colombe's wineshop to the left of the
street, where she thought she had seen Lantier, when a stout woman,
bareheaded and wearing an apron called to her from the middle of the
roadway:

"Hey, Madame Lantier, you're up very early!"

Gervaise leaned out. "Why! It's you, Madame Boche! Oh! I've got a lot
of work to-day!"

"Yes, things don't do themselves, do they?"

The conversation continued between roadway and window. Madame Boche
was concierge of the building where the "Two-Headed Calf" was on the
ground floor. Gervaise had waited for Lantier more than once in the
concierge's lodge, so as not to be alone at table with all the men who
ate at the restaurant. Madame Boche was going to a tailor who was late
in mending an overcoat for her husband. She mentioned one of her
tenants who had come in with a woman the night before and kept
everybody awake past three in the morning. She looked at Gervaise with
intense curiosity.

"Is Monsieur Lantier, then, still in bed?" she asked abruptly.

"Yes, he's asleep," replied Gervaise, who could not avoid blushing.

Madame Boche saw the tears come into her eyes; and, satisfied no
doubt, she turned to go, declaring men to be a cursed, lazy set. As
she went off, she called back:

"It's this morning you go to the wash-house, isn't it? I've something
to wash, too. I'll keep you a place next to me, and we can chat
together." Then, as if moved with sudden pity, she added:

"My poor little thing, you had far better not remain there; you'll
take harm. You look quite blue with cold."

Gervaise still obstinately remained at the window during two mortal
hours, till eight o'clock. Now all the shops had opened. Only a few
work men were still hurrying along.

The working girls now filled the boulevard: metal polishers,
milliners, flower sellers, shivering in their thin clothing. In small
groups they chattered gaily, laughing and glancing here and there.
Occasionally there would be one girl by herself, thin, pale, serious-
faced, picking her way along the city wall among the puddles and the
filth.

After the working girls, the office clerks came past, breathing upon
their chilled fingers and munching penny rolls. Some of them are gaunt
young fellows in ill-fitting suits, their tired eyes still fogged from
sleep. Others are older men, stooped and tottering, with faces pale
and drawn from long hours of office work and glancing nervously at
their watches for fear of arriving late.

In time the Boulevards settle into their usual morning quiet. Old
folks come out to stroll in the sun. Tired young mothers in bedraggled
skirts cuddle babies in their arms or sit on a bench to change
diapers. Children run, squealing and laughing, pushing and shoving.

Then Gervaise felt herself choking, dizzy with anguish, all hopes
gone; it seemed to her that everything was ended, even time itself,
and that Lantier would return no more. Her eyes vacantly wandered from
the old slaughter-house, foul with butchery and with stench, to the
new white hospital which, through the yawning openings of its ranges
of windows, disclosed the naked wards, where death was preparing to
mow. In front of her on the other side of the octroi wall the bright
heavens dazzled her, with the rising sun which rose higher and higher
over the vast awaking city.

The young woman was seated on a chair, no longer crying, and with her
hands abandoned on her lap, when Lantier quietly entered the room.

"It's you! It's you!" she cried, rising to throw herself upon his
neck.

"Yes, it's me. What of it?" he replied. "You are not going to begin
any of your nonsense, I hope!"

He had pushed her aside. Then, with a gesture of ill-humor he threw
his black felt hat to the chest of drawers. He was a young fellow of
twenty-six years of age, short and very dark, with a handsome figure,
and slight moustaches which his hand was always mechanically twirling.
He wore a workman's overalls and an old soiled overcoat, which he had
belted tightly at the waist, and he spoke with a strong Provencal
accent.

Gervaise, who had fallen back on her chair, gently complained, in
short sentences: "I've not had a wink of sleep. I feared some harm had
happened to you. Where have you been? Where did you spend the night?
For heaven's sake! Don't do it again, or I shall go crazy. Tell me
Auguste, where have you been?"

"Where I had business, of course," he returned shrugging his
shoulders. "At eight o'clock, I was at La Glaciere, with my friend who
is to start a hat factory. We sat talking late, so I preferred to
sleep there. Now, you know, I don't like being spied upon, so just
shut up!"

The young woman recommenced sobbing. The loud voices and the rough
movements of Lantier, who upset the chairs, had awakened the children.
They sat up in bed, half naked, disentangling their hair with their
tiny hands, and, hearing their mother weep, they uttered terrible
screams, crying also with their scarcely open eyes.

"Ah! there's the music!" shouted Lantier furiously. "I warn you, I'll
take my hook! And it will be for good, this time. You won't shut up?
Then, good morning! I'll return to the place I've just come from."

He had already taken his hat from off the chest of drawers. But
Gervaise threw herself before him, stammering: "No, no!"

And she hushed the little ones' tears with her caresses, smoothed
their hair, and soothed them with soft words. The children, suddenly
quieted, laughing on their pillow, amused themselves by punching each
other. The father however, without even taking off his boots, had
thrown himself on the bed looking worn out, his face bearing signs of
having been up all night. He did not go to sleep, he lay with his eyes
wide open, looking round the room.

"It's a mess here!" he muttered. And after observing Gervaise a
moment, he malignantly added: "Don't you even wash yourself now?"

Gervaise was twenty-two, tall and slim with fine features, but she was
already beginning to show the strain of her hard life. She seemed to
have aged ten years from the hours of agonized weeping. Lantier's mean
remark made her mad.

"You're not fair," she said spiritedly. "You well know I do all I can.
It's not my fault we find ourselves here. I would like to see you,
with two children, in a room where there's not even a stove to heat
some water. When we arrived in Paris, instead of squandering your
money, you should have made a home for us at once, as you promised."

"Listen!" Lantier exploded. "You cracked the nut with me; it doesn't
become you to sneer at it now!"

Apparently not listening, Gervaise went on with her own thought. "If
we work hard we can get out of the hole we're in. Madame Fauconnier,
the laundress on Rue Neuve, will start me on Monday. If you work with
your friend from La Glaciere, in six months we will be doing well.
We'll have enough for decent clothes and a place we can call our own.
But we'll have to stick with it and work hard."

Lantier turned over towards the wall, looking greatly bored. Then
Gervaise lost her temper.

"Yes, that's it, I know the love of work doesn't trouble you much.
You're bursting with ambition, you want to be dressed like a
gentleman. You don't think me nice enough, do you, now that you've
made me pawn all my dresses? Listen, Auguste, I didn't intend to speak
of it, I would have waited a bit longer, but I know where you spent
the night; I saw you enter the 'Grand-Balcony' with that trollop
Adele. Ah! you choose them well! She's a nice one, she is! She does
well to put on the airs of a princess! She's been the ridicule of
every man who frequents the restaurant."

At a bound Lantier sprang from the bed. His eyes had become as black
as ink in his pale face. With this little man, rage blew like a
tempest.

"Yes, yes, of every man who frequents the restaurant!" repeated the
young woman. "Madame Boche intends to give them notice, she and her
long stick of a sister, because they've always a string of men after
them on the staircase."

Lantier raised his fists; then, resisting the desire of striking her,
he seized hold of her by the arms, shook her violently and sent her
sprawling upon the bed of the children, who recommenced crying. And he
lay down again, mumbling, like a man resolving on something that he
previously hesitated to do:

"You don't know what you've done, Gervaise. You've made a big mistake;
you'll see."

For an instant the children continued sobbing. Their mother, who
remained bending over the bed, held them both in her embrace, and kept
repeating the same words in a monotonous tone of voice.

"Ah! if it weren't for you! My poor little ones! If it weren't for
you! If it weren't for you!"

Stretched out quietly, his eyes raised to the faded strip of chintz,
Lantier no longer listened, but seemed to be buried in a fixed idea.
He remained thus for nearly an hour, without giving way to sleep, in
spite of the fatigue which weighed his eyelids down.

He finally turned toward Gervaise, his face set hard in determination.
She had gotten the children up and dressed and had almost finished
cleaning the room. The room looked, as always, dark and depressing
with its sooty black ceiling and paper peeling from the damp walls.
The dilapidated furniture was always streaked and dirty despite
frequent dustings. Gervaise, devouring her grief, trying to assume a
look of indifference, hurried over her work.

Lantier watched as she tidied her hair in front of the small mirror
hanging near the window. While she washed herself he looked at her
bare arms and shoulders. He seemed to be making comparisons in his
mind as his lips formed a grimace. Gervaise limped with her right leg,
though it was scarcely noticeable except when she was tired. To-day,
exhausted from remaining awake all night, she was supporting herself
against the wall and dragging her leg.

Neither one spoke, they had nothing more to say. Lantier seemed to be
waiting, while Gervaise kept busy and tried to keep her countenance
expressionless. Finally, while she was making a bundle of the dirty
clothes thrown in a corner, behind the trunk, he at length opened his
lips and asked:

"What are you doing there? Where are you going?"

She did not answer at first. Then, when he furiously repeated his
question, she made up her mind, and said:

"I suppose you can see for yourself. I'm going to wash all this. The
children can't live in filth."

He let her pick up two or three handkerchiefs. And, after a fresh
pause, he resumed: "Have you got any money?"

At these words she stood up and looked him full in the face, without
leaving go of the children's dirty clothes, which she held in her
hand.

"Money! And where do you think I can have stolen any? You know well
enough that I got three francs the day before yesterday on my black
skirt. We've lunched twice off it, and money goes quick at the pork-
butcher's. No, you may be quite sure I've no money. I've four sous for
the wash-house. I don't have an extra income like some women."

He let this allusion pass. He had moved off the bed, and was passing
in review the few rags hanging about the room. He ended by taking up
the pair of trousers and the shawl, and searching the drawers, he
added two chemises and a woman's loose jacket to the parcel; then, he
threw the whole bundle into Gervaise's arms, saying:

"Here, go and pop this."

"Don't you want me to pop the children as well?" asked she. "Eh! If
they lent on children, it would be a fine riddance!"

She went to the pawn-place, however. When she returned at the end of
half an hour, she laid a hundred sou piece on the mantel-shelf, and
added the ticket to the others, between the two candlesticks.

"That's what they gave me," said she. "I wanted six francs, but I
couldn't manage it. Oh! they'll never ruin themselves. And there's
always such a crowd there!"

Lantier did not pick up the five franc piece directly. He would
rather that she got change, so as to leave her some of it. But he
decided to slip it into his waistcoat pocket, when he noticed a small
piece of ham wrapped up in paper, and the remains of a loaf on the
chest of drawers.

"I didn't dare go to the milkwoman's, because we owe her a week,"
explained Gervaise. "But I shall be back early; you can get some bread
and some chops whilst I'm away, and then we'll have lunch. Bring also
a bottle of wine."

He did not say no. Their quarrel seemed to be forgotten. The young
woman was completing her bundle of dirty clothes. But when she went to
take Lantier's shirts and socks from the bottom of the trunk, he
called to her to leave them alone.

"Leave my things, d'ye hear? I don't want 'em touched!"

"What's it you don't want touched?" she asked, rising up. "I suppose
you don't mean to put these filthy things on again, do you? They must
be washed."

She studied his boyishly handsome face, now so rigid that it seemed
nothing could ever soften it. He angrily grabbed his things from her
and threw them back into the trunk, saying:

"Just obey me, for once! I tell you I won't have 'em touched!"

"But why?" she asked, turning pale, a terrible suspicion crossing her
mind. "You don't need your shirts now, you're not going away. What can
it matter to you if I take them?"

He hesitated for an instant, embarrassed by the piercing glance she
fixed upon him. "Why--why--" stammered he, "because you go and tell
everyone that you keep me, that you wash and mend. Well! It worries
me, there! Attend to your own business and I'll attend to mine,
washerwomen don't work for dogs."

She supplicated, she protested she had never complained; but he
roughly closed the trunk and sat down upon it, saying, "No!" to her
face. He could surely do as he liked with what belonged to him! Then,
to escape from the inquiring looks she leveled at him, he went and
laid down on the bed again, saying that he was sleepy, and requesting
her not to make his head ache with any more of her row. This time
indeed, he seemed to fall asleep. Gervaise, for a while, remained
undecided. She was tempted to kick the bundle of dirty clothes on one
side, and to sit down and sew. But Lantier's regular breathing ended
by reassuring her. She took the ball of blue and the piece of soap
remaining from her last washing, and going up to the little ones who
were quietly playing with some old corks in front of the window, she
kissed them, and said in a low voice:

"Be very good, don't make any noise; papa's asleep."

When she left the room, Claude's and Etienne's gentle laughter alone
disturbed the great silence beneath the blackened ceiling. It was ten
o'clock. A ray of sunshine entered by the half open window.

On the Boulevard, Gervaise turned to the left, and followed the Rue
Neuve de la Goutte-d'Or. As she passed Madame Fauconnier's shop, she
slightly bowed her head. The wash-house she was bound for was situated
towards the middle of the street, at the part where the roadway
commenced to ascend.

The rounded, gray contours of the three large zinc wash tanks, studded
with rivets, rose above the flat-roofed building. Behind them was the
drying room, a high second story, closed in on all sides by narrow-
slatted lattices so that the air could circulate freely, and through
which laundry could be seen hanging on brass wires. The steam engine's
smokestack exhaled puffs of white smoke to the right of the water
tanks.

Gervaise was used to puddles and did not bother to tuck her skirts up
before making her way through the doorway, which was cluttered with
jars of bleaching water. She was already acquainted with the mistress
of the wash-house, a delicate little woman with red, inflamed eyes,
who sat in a small glazed closet with account books in front of her,
bars of soap on shelves, balls of blue in glass bowls, and pounds of
soda done up in packets; and, as she passed, she asked for her beetle
and her scouring-brush, which she had left to be taken care of the
last time she had done her washing there. Then, after obtaining her
number, she entered the wash-house.

It was an immense shed, with large clear windows, and a flat ceiling,
showing the beams supported on cast-iron pillars. Pale rays of light
passed through the hot steam, which remained suspended like a milky
fog. Smoke arose from certain corners, spreading about and covering
the recesses with a bluish veil. A heavy moisture hung around,
impregnated with a soapy odor, a damp insipid smell, continuous though
at moments overpowered by the more potent fumes of the chemicals.
Along the washing-places, on either side of the central alley, were
rows of women, with bare arms and necks, and skirts tucked up, showing
colored stockings and heavy lace-up shoes. They were beating
furiously, laughing, leaning back to call out a word in the midst of
the din, or stooping over their tubs, all of them brutal, ungainly,
foul of speech, and soaked as though by a shower, with their flesh red
and reeking.

All around the women continuously flowed a river from hot-water
buckets emptied with a sudden splash, cold-water faucets left
dripping, soap suds spattering, and the dripping from rinsed laundry
which was hung up. It splashed their feet and drained away across the
sloping flagstones. The din of the shouting and the rhythmic beating
was joined by the patter of steady dripping. It was slightly muffled
by the moisture-soaked ceiling. Meanwhile, the steam engine could be
heard as it puffed and snorted ceaselessly while cloaked in its white
mist. The dancing vibration of its flywheel seemed to regulate the
volume of the noisy turbulence.

Gervaise passed slowly along the alley, looking to the right and left,
carrying her laundry bundle under one arm, with one hip thrust high
and limping more than usual. She was jostled by several women in the
hubbub.

"This way, my dear!" cried Madame Boche, in her loud voice. Then, when
the young woman had joined her at the very end on the left, the
concierge, who was furiously rubbing a dirty sock, began to talk
incessantly, without leaving off her work. "Put your things there,
I've kept your place. Oh, I sha'n't be long over what I've got. Boche
scarcely dirties his things at all. And you, you won't be long either,
will you? Your bundle's quite a little one. Before twelve o'clock we
shall have finished, and we can go off to lunch. I used to send my
things to a laundress in the Rue Poulet, but she destroyed everything
with her chlorine and her brushes; so now I do the washing myself.
It's so much saved; it only costs the soap. I say, you should have put
those shirts to soak. Those little rascals of children, on my word!
One would think their bodies were covered with soot."

Gervaise, having undone her bundle, was spreading out the little ones'
shirts, and as Madame Boche advised her to take a pailful of lye, she
answered, "Oh, no! warm water will do. I'm used to it." She had sorted
her laundry with several colored pieces to one side. Then, after
filling her tub with four pails of cold water from the tap behind her,
she plunged her pile of whites into it.

"You're used to it?" repeated Madame Boche. "You were a washerwoman in
your native place, weren't you, my dear?"

Gervaise, with her sleeves pushed back, displayed the graceful arms of
a young blonde, as yet scarcely reddened at the elbows, and started
scrubbing her laundry. She spread a shirt out on the narrow rubbing
board which was water-bleached and eroded by years of use. She rubbed
soap into the shirt, turned it over, and soaped the other side. Before
replying to Madame Boche she grasped her beetle and began to pound
away so that her shouted phrases were punctuated with loud and
rhythmic thumps.

"Yes, yes, a washerwoman--When I was ten--That's twelve years ago--We
used to go to the river--It smelt nicer there than it does here--You
should have seen, there was a nook under the trees, with clear running
water--You know, at Plassans--Don't you know Plassans?--It's near
Marseilles."

"How you go at it!" exclaimed Madame Boche, amazed at the strength of
her blows. "You could flatten out a piece of iron with your little
lady-like arms."

The conversation continued in a very high volume. At times, the
concierge, not catching what was said, was obliged to lean forward.
All the linen was beaten, and with a will! Gervaise plunged it into
the tub again, and then took it out once more, each article
separately, to rub it over with soap a second time and brush it. With
one hand she held the article firmly on the plank; with the other,
which grasped the short couch-grass brush, she extracted from the
linen a dirty lather, which fell in long drips. Then, in the slight
noise caused by the brush, the two women drew together, and conversed
in a more intimate way.

"No, we're not married," resumed Gervaise. "I don't hide it. Lantier
isn't so nice for any one to care to be his wife. If it weren't for
the children! I was fourteen and he was eighteen when we had our first
one. It happened in the usual way, you know how it is. I wasn't happy
at home. Old man Macquart would kick me in the tail whenever he felt
like it, for no reason at all. I had to have some fun outside. We
might have been married, but--I forget why--our parents wouldn't
consent."

She shook her hands, which were growing red in the white suds. "The
water's awfully hard in Paris."

Madame Boche was now washing only very slowly. She kept leaving off,
making her work last as long as she could, so as to remain there, to
listen to that story, which her curiosity had been hankering to know
for a fortnight past. Her mouth was half open in the midst of her big,
fat face; her eyes, which were almost at the top of her head, were
gleaming. She was thinking, with the satisfaction of having guessed
right.

"That's it, the little one gossips too much. There's been a row."

Then, she observed out loud, "He isn't nice, then?"

"Don't mention it!" replied Gervaise. "He used to behave very well in
the country; but, since we've been in Paris, he's been unbearable. I
must tell you that his mother died last year and left him some money--
about seventeen hundred francs. He would come to Paris, so, as old
Macquart was forever knocking me about without warning, I consented to
come away with him. We made the journey with two children. He was to
set me up as a laundress, and work himself at his trade of a hatter.
We should have been very happy; but, you see, Lantier's ambitious and
a spendthrift, a fellow who only thinks of amusing himself. In short,
he's not worth much. On arriving, we went to the Hotel Montmartre, in
the Rue Montmartre. And then there were dinners, and cabs, and the
theatre; a watch for himself and a silk dress for me, for he's not
unkind when he's got the money. You understand, he went in for
everything, and so well that at the end of two months we were cleaned
out. It was then that we came to live at the Hotel Boncoeur, and that
this horrible life began."

She interrupted herself. A lump had suddenly risen in her throat, and
she could scarcely restrain her tears. She had finished brushing the
things.

"I must go and fetch my hot water," she murmured.

But Madame Boche, greatly disappointed at this break off in the
disclosures, called to the wash-house boy, who was passing, "My little
Charles, kindly get madame a pail of hot water; she's in a hurry."

The youth took the bucket and brought it back filled. Gervaise paid
him; it was a sou the pailful. She poured the hot water into the tub,
and soaped the things a last time with her hands, leaning over them in
a mass of steam, which deposited small beads of grey vapor in her
light hair.

"Here put some soda in, I've got some by me," said the concierge,
obligingly.

And she emptied into Gervaise's tub what remained of a bag of soda
which she had brought with her. She also offered her some of the
chemical water, but the young woman declined it; it was only good for
grease and wine stains.

"I think he's rather a loose fellow," resumed Madame Boche, returning
to Lantier, but without naming him.

Gervaise, bent almost double, her hands all shriveled, and thrust in
amongst the clothes, merely tossed her head.

"Yes, yes," continued the other, "I have noticed several little
things--" But she suddenly interrupted herself, as Gervaise jumped up,
with a pale face, and staring wildly at her. Then she exclaimed, "Oh,
no! I don't know anything! He likes to laugh a bit, I think, that's
all. For instance, you know the two girls who lodge at my place, Adele
and Virginie. Well; he larks about with 'em, but he just flirts for
sport."

The young woman standing before her, her face covered with
perspiration, the water dripping from her arms, continued to stare at
her with a fixed and penetrating look. Then the concierge got excited,
giving herself a blow on the chest, and pledging her word of honor,
she cried:

"I know nothing, I mean it when I say so!"

Then calming herself, she added in a gentle voice, as if speaking to a
person on whom loud protestations would have no effect, "I think he
has a frank look about the eyes. He'll marry you, my dear, I'm sure of
it."

Gervaise wiped her forehead with her wet hand. Shaking her head again,
she pulled another garment out of the water. Both of them kept silence
for a moment. The wash-house was quieting down, for eleven o'clock had
struck. Half of the washerwomen were perched on the edge of their
tubs, eating sausages between slices of bread and drinking from open
bottles of wine. Only housewives who had come to launder small bundles
of family linen were hurrying to finish.

Occasional beetle blows could still be heard amid the subdued laughter
and gossip half-choked by the greedy chewing of jawbones. The steam
engine never stopped. Its vibrant, snorting voice seemed to fill the
entire hall, though not one of the women even heard it. It was like
the breathing of the wash-house, its hot breath collecting under the
ceiling rafters in an eternal floating mist.

The heat was becoming intolerable. Through the tall windows on the
left sunlight was streaming in, touching the steamy vapors with
opalescent tints of soft pinks and grayish blues. Charles went from
window to window, letting down the heavy canvas awnings. Then he
crossed to the shady side to open the ventilators. He was applauded by
cries and hand clapping and a rough sort of gaiety spread around. Soon
even the last of the beetle-pounding stopped.

With full mouths, the washerwomen could only make gestures. It became
so quiet that the grating sound of the fireman shoveling coal into
the engine's firebox could be heard at regular intervals from far at
the other end.

Gervaise was washing her colored things in the hot water thick with
lather, which she had kept for the purpose. When she had finished, she
drew a trestle towards her and hung across it all the different
articles; the drippings from which made bluish puddles on the floor;
and she commenced rinsing. Behind her, the cold water tap was set
running into a vast tub fixed to the ground, and across which were two
wooden bars whereon to lay the clothes. High up in the air were two
other bars for the things to finish dripping on.

"We're almost finished, and not a bad job," said Madame Boche. "I'll
wait and help you wring all that."

"Oh! it's not worth while; I'm much obliged though," replied the young
woman, who was kneading with her hands and sousing the colored things
in some clean water. "If I'd any sheets, it would be another thing."

But she had, however, to accept the concierge's assistance. They were
wringing between them, one at each end, a woolen skirt of a washed-out
chestnut color, from which dribbled a yellowish water, when Madame
Boche exclaimed:

"Why, there's tall Virginie! What has she come here to wash, when all
her wardrobe that isn't on her would go into a pocket handkerchief?"

Gervaise jerked her head up. Virginie was a girl of her own age,
taller than she was, dark and pretty in spite of her face being rather
long and narrow. She had on an old black dress with flounces, and a
red ribbon round her neck; and her hair was done up carefully, the
chignon being enclosed in a blue silk net. She stood an instant in the
middle of the central alley, screwing up her eyes as though seeking
someone; then, when she caught sight of Gervaise, she passed close to
her, erect, insolent, and with a swinging gait, and took a place in
the same row, five tubs away from her.

"There's a freak for you!" continued Madame Boche in a lower tone of
voice. "She never does any laundry, not even a pair of cuffs. A
seamstress who doesn't even sew on a loose button! She's just like her
sister, the brass burnisher, that hussy Adele, who stays away from her
job two days out of three. Nobody knows who their folks are or how
they make a living. Though, if I wanted to talk . . . What on earth is
she scrubbing there? A filthy petticoat. I'll wager it's seen some
lovely sights, that petticoat!"

Madame Boche was evidently trying to make herself agreeable to
Gervaise. The truth was she often took a cup of coffee with Adele and
Virginia, when the girls had any money. Gervaise did not answer, but
hurried over her work with feverish hands. She had just prepared her
blue in a little tub that stood on three legs. She dipped in the linen
things, and shook them an instant at the bottom of the colored water,
the reflection of which had a pinky tinge; and after wringing them
lightly, she spread them out on the wooden bars up above. During the
time she was occupied with this work, she made a point of turning her
back on Virginie. But she heard her chuckles; she could feel her
sidelong glances. Virginie appeared only to have come there to provoke
her. At one moment, Gervaise having turned around, they both stared
into each other's faces.

"Leave her alone," whispered Madame Boche. "You're not going to pull
each other's hair out, I hope. When I tell you there's nothing to it!
It isn't her, anyhow!"

At this moment, as the young woman was hanging up the last article of
clothing, there was a sound of laughter at the door of the wash-house.

"Here are two brats who want their mamma!" cried Charles.

All the women leant forward. Gervaise recognized Claude and Etienne.
As soon as they caught sight of her, they ran to her through the
puddles, the heels of their unlaced shoes resounding on the
flagstones. Claude, the eldest, held his little brother by the hand.
The women, as they passed them, uttered little exclamations of
affection as they noticed their frightened though smiling faces. And
they stood there, in front of their mother, without leaving go of each
other's hands, and holding their fair heads erect.

"Has papa sent you?" asked Gervaise.

But as she stooped to tie the laces of Etienne's shoes, she saw the
key of their room on one of Claude's fingers, with the brass number
hanging from it.

"Why, you've brought the key!" she said, greatly surprised. "What's
that for?"

The child, seeing the key which he had forgotten on his finger,
appeared to recollect, and exclaimed in his clear voice:

"Papa's gone away."

"He's gone to buy the lunch, and told you to come here to fetch me?"

Claude looked at his brother, hesitated, no longer recollecting. Then
he resumed all in a breath: "Papa's gone away. He jumped off the bed,
he put all the things in the trunk, he carried the trunk down to a
cab. He's gone away."

Gervaise, who was squatting down, slowly rose to her feet, her face
ghastly pale. She put her hands to her cheeks and temples, as though
she felt her head was breaking; and she could find only these words,
which she repeated twenty times in the same tone of voice:

"Ah! good heavens!--ah! good heavens!--ah! good heavens!"

Madame Boche, however, also questioned the child, quite delighted at
the chance of hearing the whole story.

"Come, little one, you must tell us just what happened. It was he who
locked the door and who told you to bring the key, wasn't it?" And,
lowering her voice, she whispered in Claude's ear: "Was there a lady
in the cab?"

The child again got confused. Then he recommenced his story in a
triumphant manner: "He jumped off the bed, he put all the things in
the trunk. He's gone away."

Then, when Madame Boche let him go, he drew his brother in front of
the tap, and they amused themselves by turning on the water. Gervaise
was unable to cry. She was choking, leaning back against her tub, her
face still buried in her hands. Brief shudders rocked her body and she
wailed out long sighs while pressing her hands tighter against her
eyes, as though abandoning herself to the blackness of desolation, a
dark, deep pit into which she seemed to be falling.

"Come, my dear, pull yourself together!" murmured Madame Boche.

"If you only knew! If you only knew!" said she at length very faintly.
"He sent me this morning to pawn my shawl and my chemises to pay for
that cab."

And she burst out crying. The memory of the events of that morning and
of her trip to the pawn-place tore from her the sobs that had been
choking her throat. That abominable trip to the pawn-place was the
thing that hurt most in all her sorrow and despair. Tears were
streaming down her face but she didn't think of using her
handkerchief.

"Be reasonable, do be quiet, everyone's looking at you," Madame Boche,
who hovered round her, kept repeating. "How can you worry yourself so
much on account of a man? You loved him, then, all the same, did you,
my poor darling? A little while ago you were saying all sorts of
things against him; and now you're crying for him, and almost breaking
your heart. Dear me, how silly we all are!"

Then she became quite maternal.

"A pretty little woman like you! Can it be possible? One may tell you
everything now, I suppose. Well! You recollect when I passed under
your window, I already had my suspicions. Just fancy, last night, when
Adele came home, I heard a man's footsteps with hers. So I thought I
would see who it was. I looked up the staircase. The fellow was
already on the second landing; but I certainly recognized Monsieur
Lantier's overcoat. Boche, who was on the watch this morning, saw him
tranquilly nod adieu. He was with Adele, you know. Virginie has a
situation now, where she goes twice a week. Only it's highly imprudent
all the same, for they've only one room and an alcove, and I can't
very well say where Virginie managed to sleep."

She interrupted herself an instant, turned round, and then resumed,
subduing her loud voice:

"She's laughing at seeing you cry, that heartless thing over there.
I'd stake my life that her washing's all a pretence. She's packed off
the other two, and she's come here so as to tell them how you take
it."

Gervaise removed her hands from her face and looked. When she beheld
Virginie in front of her, amidst three or four women, speaking low and
staring at her, she was seized with a mad rage. Her arms in front of
her, searching the ground, she stumbled forward a few paces. Trembling
all over, she found a bucket full of water, grabbed it with both
hands, and emptied it at Virginie.

"The virago!" yelled tall Virginie.

She had stepped back, and her boots alone got wet. The other women,
who for some minutes past had all been greatly upset by Gervaise's
tears, jostled each other in their anxiety to see the fight. Some, who
were finishing their lunch, got on the tops of their tubs. Others
hastened forward, their hands smothered with soap. A ring was formed.

"Ah! the virago!" repeated tall Virginie. "What's the matter with her?
She's mad!"

Gervaise, standing on the defensive, her chin thrust out, her features
convulsed, said nothing, not having yet acquired the Paris gift of
street gab. The other continued:

"Get out! This girl's tired of wallowing about in the country; she
wasn't twelve years old when the soldiers were at her. She even lost
her leg serving her country. That leg's rotting off."

The lookers-on burst out laughing. Virginie, seeing her success,
advanced a couple of steps, drawing herself up to her full height, and
yelling louder than ever:

"Here! Come a bit nearer, just to see how I'll settle you! Don't you
come annoying us here. Do I even know her, the hussy? If she'd wetted
me, I'd have pretty soon shown her battle, as you'd have seen. Let her
just say what I've ever done to her. Speak, you vixen; what's been
done to you?"

"Don't talk so much," stammered Gervaise. "You know well enough. Some
one saw my husband last night. And shut up, because if you don't I'll
most certainly strangle you."

"Her husband! That's a good one! As if cripples like her had husbands!
If he's left you it's not my fault. Surely you don't think I've stolen
him, do you? He was much too good for you and you made him sick. Did
you keep him on a leash? Has anyone here seen her husband? There's a
reward."

The laughter burst forth again. Gervaise contented herself with
continually murmuring in a low tone of voice:

"You know well enough, you know well enough. It's your sister. I'll
strangle her--your sister."

"Yes, go and try it on with my sister," resumed Virginie sneeringly.
"Ah! it's my sister! That's very likely. My sister looks a trifle
different to you; but what's that to me? Can't one come and wash one's
clothes in peace now? Just dry up, d'ye hear, because I've had enough
of it!"

But it was she who returned to the attack, after giving five or six
strokes with her beetle, intoxicated by the insults she had been
giving utterance to, and worked up into a passion. She left off and
recommenced again, speaking in this way three times:

"Well, yes! it's my sister. There now, does that satisfy you? They
adore each other. You should just see them bill and coo! And he's left
you with your children. Those pretty kids with scabs all over their
faces! You got one of them from a gendarme, didn't you? And you let
three others die because you didn't want to pay excess baggage on your
journey. It's your Lantier who told us that. Ah! he's been telling
some fine things; he'd had enough of you!"

"You dirty jade! You dirty jade! You dirty jade!" yelled Gervaise,
beside herself, and again seized with a furious trembling. She turned
round, looking once more about the ground; and only observing the
little tub, she seized hold of it by the legs, and flung the whole of
the bluing at Virginie's face.

"The beast! She's spoilt my dress!" cried the latter, whose shoulder
was sopping wet and whose left hand was dripping blue. "Just wait, you
wretch!"

In her turn she seized a bucket, and emptied it over Gervaise. Then a
formidable battle began. They both ran along the rows of tubs, seized
hold of the pails that were full, and returned to dash the contents at
each other's heads. And each deluge was accompanied by a volley of
words. Gervaise herself answered now:

"There, you scum! You got it that time. It'll help to cool you."

"Ah! the carrion! That's for your filth. Wash yourself for once in
your life."

"Yes, yes, I'll wash the salt out of you, you cod!"

"Another one! Brush your teeth, fix yourself up for your post to-night
at the corner of the Rue Belhomme."

They ended by having to refill the buckets at the water taps,
continuing to insult each other the while. The initial bucketfuls were
so poorly aimed as to scarcely reach their targets, but they soon
began to splash each other in earnest. Virginie was the first to
receive a bucketful in the face. The water ran down, soaking her back
and front. She was still staggering when another caught her from the
side, hitting her left ear and drenching her chignon which then came
unwound into a limp, bedraggled string of hair.

Gervaise was hit first in the legs. One pail filled her shoes full of
water and splashed up to her thighs. Two more wet her even higher.
Soon both of them were soaked from top to bottom and it was impossible
to count the hits. Their clothes were plastered to their bodies and
they looked shrunken. Water was dripping everywhere as from umbrellas
in a rainstorm.

"They look jolly funny!" said the hoarse voice of one of the women.

Everyone in the wash-house was highly amused. A good space was left to
the combatants, as nobody cared to get splashed. Applause and jokes
circulated in the midst of the sluice-like noise of the buckets
emptied in rapid succession! On the floor the puddles were running one
into another, and the two women were wading in them up to their
ankles. Virginie, however, who had been meditating a treacherous move,
suddenly seized hold of a pail of lye, which one of her neighbors had
left there and threw it. The same cry arose from all. Everyone thought
Gervaise was scalded; but only her left foot had been slightly
touched. And, exasperated by the pain, she seized a bucket, without
troubling herself to fill it this time, and threw it with all her
might at the legs of Virginie, who fell to the ground. All the women
spoke together.

"She's broken one of her limbs!"

"Well, the other tried to cook her!"

"She's right, after all, the blonde one, if her man's been taken from
her!"

Madame Boche held up her arms to heaven, uttering all sorts of
exclamations. She had prudently retreated out of the way between two
tubs; and the children, Claude and Etienne, crying, choking,
terrified, clung to her dress with the continuous cry of "Mamma!
Mamma!" broken by their sobs. When she saw Virginie fall she hastened
forward, and tried to pull Gervaise away by her skirt, repeating the
while,

"Come now, go home! Be reasonable. On my word, it's quite upset me.
Never was such a butchery seen before."

But she had to draw back and seek refuge again between the two tubs,
with the children. Virginie had just flown at Gervaise's throat. She
squeezed her round the neck, trying to strangle her. The latter freed
herself with a violent jerk, and in her turn hung on to the other's
hair, as though she was trying to pull her head off. The battle was
silently resumed, without a cry, without an insult. They did not seize
each other round the body, they attacked each other's faces with open
hands and clawing fingers, pinching, scratching whatever they caught
hold of. The tall, dark girl's red ribbon and blue silk hair net were
torn off. The body of her dress, giving way at the neck, displayed a
large portion of her shoulder; whilst the blonde, half stripped, a
sleeve gone from her loose white jacket without her knowing how, had a
rent in her underlinen, which exposed to view the naked line of her
waist. Shreds of stuff flew in all directions. It was from Gervaise
that the first blood was drawn, three long scratches from the mouth to
the chin; and she sought to protect her eyes, shutting them at every
grab the other made, for fear of having them torn out. No blood showed
on Virginie as yet. Gervaise aimed at her ears, maddened at not being
able to reach them. At length she succeeded in seizing hold of one of
the earrings--an imitation pear in yellow glass--which she pulled out
and slit the ear, and the blood flowed.

"They're killing each other! Separate them, the vixens!" exclaimed
several voices.

The other women had drawn nearer. They formed themselves into two
camps. Some were cheering the combatants on as the others were
trembling and turning their heads away saying that it was making them
sick. A large fight nearly broke out between the two camps as the
women called each other names and brandished their fists
threateningly. Three loud slaps rang out.

Madame Boche, meanwhile, was trying to discover the wash-house boy.

"Charles! Charles! Wherever has he got to?"

And she found him in the front rank, looking on with his arms folded.
He was a big fellow, with an enormous neck. He was laughing and
enjoying the sight of the skin which the two women displayed. The
little blonde was as fat as a quail. It would be fun if her chemise
burst open.

"Why," murmured he, blinking his eye, "she's got a strawberry
birthmark under her arm."

"What! You're there!" cried Madame Boche, as she caught sight of him.
"Just come and help us separate them. You can easily separate them,
you can!"

"Oh, no! thank you, not if I know it," said he coolly. "To get my eye
scratched like I did the other day, I suppose! I'm not here for that
sort of thing; I have enough to do without that. Don't be afraid, a
little bleeding does 'em good; it'll soften 'em."

The concierge then talked of fetching the police; but the mistress of
the wash-house, the delicate young woman with the red, inflamed eyes,
would not allow her to do this. She kept saying:

"No, no, I won't; it'll compromise my establishment."

The struggle on the ground continued. All on a sudden, Virginie raised
herself up on her knees. She had just gotten hold of a beetle and held
it on high. She had a rattle in her throat and in an altered voice,
she exclaimed,

"Here's something that'll settle you! Get your dirty linen ready!"

Gervaise quickly thrust out her hand, and also seized a beetle, and
held it up like a club; and she too spoke in a choking voice,

"Ah! you want to wash. Let me get hold of your skin that I may beat it
into dish-cloths!"

For a moment they remained there, on their knees, menacing each other.
Their hair all over their faces, their breasts heaving, muddy,
swelling with rage, they watched one another, as they waited and took
breath. Gervaise gave the first blow. Her beetle glided off Virginie's
shoulder, and she at once threw herself on one side to avoid the
latter's beetle, which grazed her hip. Then, warming to their work
they struck at each other like washerwomen beating clothes, roughly,
and in time. Whenever there was a hit, the sound was deadened, so that
one might have thought it a blow in a tub full of water. The other
women around them no longer laughed. Several had gone off saying that
it quite upset them; those who remained stretched out their necks,
their eyes lighted up with a gleam of cruelty, admiring the pluck
displayed. Madame Boche had led Claude and Etienne away, and one could
hear at the other end of the building the sound of their sobs, mingled
with the sonorous shocks of the two beetles. But Gervaise suddenly
yelled. Virginie had caught her a whack with all her might on her bare
arm, just above the elbow. A large red mark appeared, the flesh at
once began to swell. Then she threw herself upon Virginie, and
everyone thought she was going to beat her to death.

"Enough! Enough!" was cried on all sides.

Her face bore such a terrible expression, that no one dared approach
her. Her strength seemed to have increased tenfold. She seized
Virginie round the waist, bent her down and pressed her face against
the flagstones. Raising her beetle she commenced beating as she used
to beat at Plassans, on the banks of the Viorne, when her mistress
washed the clothes of the garrison. The wood seemed to yield to the
flesh with a damp sound. At each whack a red weal marked the white
skin.

"Oh, oh!" exclaimed the boy Charles, opening his eyes to their full
extent and gloating over the sight.

Laughter again burst forth from the lookers-on, but soon the cry,
"Enough! Enough!" recommenced. Gervaise heard not, neither did she
tire. She examined her work, bent over it, anxious not to leave a dry
place. She wanted to see the whole of that skin beaten, covered with
contusions. And she talked, seized with a ferocious gaiety, recalling
a washerwoman's song,

  "Bang! Bang! Margot at her tub.
   Bang! Bang! Beating rub-a-dub.
   Bang! Bang! Tries to wash her heart.
   Bang! Bang! Black with grief to part."

And then she resumed,

  "That's for you, that's for your sister.
   That's for Lantier.
   When you next see them,
   You can give them that.
   Attention! I'm going to begin again.
   That's for Lantier, that's for your sister.
   That's for you.
   Bang! Bang! Margot at her tub.
   Bang! Bang! Beating rub-a-dub--"

The others were obliged to drag Virginie away from her. The tall, dark
girl, her face bathed in tears and purple with shame, picked up her
things and hastened away. She was vanquished. Gervaise slipped on the
sleeve of her jacket again, and fastened up her petticoats. Her arm
pained her a good deal, and she asked Madame Boche to place her bundle
of clothes on her shoulder. The concierge referred to the battle,
spoke of her emotions, and talked of examining the young woman's
person, just to see.

"You may, perhaps, have something broken. I heard a tremendous blow."

But Gervaise wanted to go home. She made no reply to the pitying
remarks and noisy ovation of the other women who surrounded her, erect
in their aprons. When she was laden she gained the door, where the
children awaited her.

"Two hours, that makes two sous," said the mistress of the wash-house,
already back at her post in the glazed closet.

Why two sous? She no longer understood that she was asked to pay for
her place there. Then she gave the two sous; and limping very much
beneath the weight of the wet clothes on her shoulder, the water
dripping from off her, her elbow black and blue, her cheek covered
with blood, she went off, dragging Claude and Etienne with her bare
arms, whilst they trotted along on either side of her, still
trembling, and their faces besmeared with their tears.

Once she was gone, the wash-house resumed its roaring tumult. The
washerwomen had eaten their bread and drunk their wine. Their faces
were lit up and their spirits enlivened by the fight between Gervaise
and Virginie.

The long lines of tubs were astir again with the fury of thrashing
arms, of craggy profiles, of marionettes with bent backs and slumping
shoulders that twisted and jerked violently as though on hinges.
Conversations went on from one end to the other in loud voices.
Laughter and coarse remarks crackled through the ceaseless gurgling of
the water. Faucets were sputtering, buckets spilling, rivulets flowing
underneath the rows of washboards. Throughout the huge shed rising
wisps of steam reflected a reddish tint, pierced here and there by
disks of sunlight, golden globes that had leaked through holes in the
awnings. The air was stiflingly warm and odorous with soap.

Suddenly the hall was filled with a white mist. The huge copper lid of
the lye-water kettle was rising mechanically along a notched shaft,
and from the gaping copper hollow within its wall of bricks came
whirling clouds of vapor. Meanwhile, at one side the drying machines
were hard at work; within their cast-iron cylinders bundles of laundry
were being wrung dry by the centrifugal force of the steam engine,
which was still puffing, steaming, jolting the wash-house with the
ceaseless labor of its iron limbs.

When Gervaise turned into the entry of the Hotel Boncoeur, her tears
again mastered her. It was a dark, narrow passage, with a gutter for
the dirty water running alongside the wall; and the stench which she
again encountered there caused her to think of the fortnight she had
passed in the place with Lantier--a fortnight of misery and quarrels,
the recollection of which was now a bitter regret. It seemed to bring
her abandonment home to her.

Upstairs the room was bare, in spite of the sunshine which entered
through the open window. That blaze of light, that kind of dancing
golden dust, exposed the lamentable condition of the blackened
ceiling, and of the walls half denuded of paper, all the more. The
only thing left hanging in the room was a woman's small neckerchief,
twisted like a piece of string. The children's bedstead, drawn into
the middle of the apartment, displayed the chest of drawers, the open
drawers of which exposed their emptiness. Lantier had washed himself
and had used up the last of the pomatum--two sous' worth of pomatum in
a playing card; the greasy water from his hands filled the basin. And
he had forgotten nothing. The corner which until then had been filled
by the trunk seemed to Gervaise an immense empty space. Even the little
mirror which hung on the window-fastening was gone. When she made this
discovery, she had a presentiment. She looked on the mantel-piece.
Lantier had taken away the pawn tickets; the pink bundle was no longer
there, between the two odd zinc candlesticks.

She hung her laundry over the back of a chair and just stood there,
gazing around at the furniture. She was so dulled and bewildered that
she could no longer cry. She had only one sou left. Then, hearing
Claude and Etienne laughing merrily by the window, their troubles
already forgotten, she went to them and put her arms about them,
losing herself for a moment in contemplation of that long gray avenue
where, that very morning, she had watched the awakening of the working
population, of the immense work-shop of Paris.

At this hour immense heat was rising from the pavement and from all
the furnaces in the factories, setting alight a reflecting oven over
the city and beyond the octroi wall. Out upon this very pavement, into
this furnace blast, she had been tossed, alone with her little ones.
As she glanced up and down the boulevard, she was seized with a dull
dread that her life would be fixed there forever, between a slaughter-
house and a hospital.



                             CHAPTER II.

Three weeks later, towards half-past eleven, one beautiful sunshiny
day, Gervaise and Coupeau, the zinc-worker, were each partaking of a
plum preserved in brandy, at "l'Assommoir" kept by Pere Colombe.
Coupeau, who had been smoking a cigarette on the pavement, had
prevailed on her to go inside as she returned from taking home a
customer's washing; and her big square laundress's basket was on the
floor beside her, behind the little zinc covered table.

Pere Colombe's l'Assommoir was at the corner of Rue des Poissonniers
and Boulevard de Rochechouart. The sign, in tall blue letters
stretching from one end to the other said: Distillery. Two dusty
oleanders planted in half casks stood beside the doorway. A long bar
with its tin measuring cups was on the left as you entered. The large
room was decorated with casks painted a gay yellow, bright with
varnish, and gleaming with copper taps and hoops.

On the shelves above the bar were liquor bottles, jars of fruit
preserved in brandy, and flasks of all shapes. They completely covered
the wall and were reflected in the mirror behind the bar as colorful
spots of apple green, pale gold, and soft brown. The main feature of
the establishment, however, was the distilling apparatus. It was at
the rear, behind an oak railing in a glassed-in area. The customers
could watch its functioning, long-necked still-pots, copper worms
disappearing underground, a devil's kitchen alluring to drink-sodden
work men in search of pleasant dreams.

L'Assommoir was nearly empty at the lunch hour. Pere Colombe, a heavy
man of forty, was serving a ten year old girl who had asked him to
place four sous' worth of brandy into her cup. A shaft of sunlight
came through the entrance to warm the floor which was always damp from
the smokers' spitting. From everything, the casks, the bar, the entire
room, a liquorish odor arose, an alcoholic aroma which seemed to
thicken and befuddle the dust motes dancing in the sunlight.

Coupeau was making another cigarette. He was very neat, in a short
blue linen blouse and cap, and was laughing and showing his white
teeth. With a projecting under jaw and a slightly snub nose, he had
handsome chestnut eyes, and the face of a jolly dog and a thorough
good fellow. His coarse curly hair stood erect. His skin still
preserved the softness of his twenty-six years. Opposite to him,
Gervaise, in a thin black woolen dress, and bareheaded, was finishing
her plum which she held by the stalk between the tips of her fingers.
They were close to the street, at the first of the four tables placed
alongside the barrels facing the bar.

When the zinc-worker had lit his cigarette, he placed his elbows on
the table, thrust his face forward, and for an instant looked without
speaking at the young woman, whose pretty fair face had that day the
milky transparency of china. Then, alluding to a matter known to
themselves alone, and already discussed between them, he simply asked
in a low voice:

"So it's to be 'no'? you say 'no'?"

"Oh! most decidedly 'no' Monsieur Coupeau," quietly replied Gervaise
with a smile. "I hope you're not going to talk to me about that here.
You know you promised me you would be reasonable. Had I known, I
wouldn't have let you treat me."

Coupeau kept silence, looking at her intently with a boldness. She sat
still, at ease and friendly. At the end of a brief silence she added:

"You can't really mean it. I'm an old woman; I've a big boy eight
years old. Whatever could we two do together?"

"Why!" murmured Coupeau, blinking his eyes, "what the others do, of
course, get married!"

She made a gesture of feeling annoyed. "Oh! do you think it's always
pleasant? One can very well see you've never seen much of living. No,
Monsieur Coupeau, I must think of serious things. Burdening oneself
never leads to anything, you know! I've two mouths at home which are
never tired of swallowing, I can tell you! How do you suppose I can
bring up my little ones, if I only sit here talking indolently? And
listen, besides that, my misfortune has been a famous lesson to me.
You know I don't care a bit about men now. They won't catch me again
for a long while."

She spoke with such cool objectivity that it was clear she had
resolved this in her mind, turning it about thoroughly.

Coupeau was deeply moved and kept repeating: "I feel so sorry for you.
It causes me a great deal of pain."

"Yes, I know that," resumed she, "and I am sorry, Monsieur Coupeau.
But you mustn't take it to heart. If I had any idea of enjoying
myself, /mon Dieu!/, I would certainly rather be with you than anyone
else. You're a good boy and gentle. Only, where's the use, as I've no
inclination to wed? I've been for the last fortnight, now, at Madame
Fauconnier's. The children go to school. I've work, I'm contented. So
the best is to remain as we are, isn't it?"

And she stooped down to take her basket.

"You're making me talk; they must be expecting me at the shop. You'll
easily find someone else prettier than I, Monsieur Coupeau, and who
won't have two boys to drag about with her."

He looked at the clock inserted in the frame-work of the mirror, and
made her sit down again, exclaiming:

"Don't be in such a hurry! It's only eleven thirty-five. I've still
twenty-five minutes. You don't have to be afraid that I shall do
anything foolish; there's the table between us. So you detest me so
much that you won't stay and have a little chat with me."

She put her basket down again, so as not to disoblige him; and they
conversed like good friends. She had eaten her lunch before going out
with the laundry. He had gulped down his soup and beef hurriedly to be
able to wait for her. All the while she chatted amiably, Gervaise kept
looking out the window at the activity on the street. It was now
unusually crowded with the lunch time rush.

Everywhere were hurried steps, swinging arms, and pushing elbows. Some
late comers, hungry and angry at being kept extra long at the job,
rushed across the street into the bakery. They emerged with a loaf of
bread and went three doors farther to the Two-Headed Calf to gobble
down a six-sou meat dish.

Next door to the bakery was a grocer who sold fried potatoes and
mussels cooked with parsley. A procession of girls went in to get hot
potatoes wrapped in paper and cups of steaming mussels. Other pretty
girls bought bunches of radishes. By leaning a bit, Gervaise could see
into the sausage shop from which children issued, holding a fried
chop, a sausage or a piece of hot blood pudding wrapped in greasy
paper. The street was always slick with black mud, even in clear
weather. A few laborers had already finished their lunch and were
strolling aimlessly about, their open hands slapping their thighs,
heavy from eating, slow and peaceful amid the hurrying crowd. A group
formed in front of the door of l'Assommoir.

"Say, Bibi-the-Smoker," demanded a hoarse voice, "aren't you going to
buy us a round of /vitriol/?"

Five laborers came in and stood by the bar.

"Ah! Here's that thief, Pere Colombe!" the voice continued. "We want
the real old stuff, you know. And full sized glasses, too."

Pere Colombe served them as three more laborers entered. More blue
smocks gathered on the street corner and some pushed their way into
the establishment.

"You're foolish! You only think of the present," Gervaise was saying
to Coupeau. "Sure, I loved him, but after the disgusting way in which
he left me--"

They were talking of Lantier. Gervaise had not seen him again; she
thought he was living with Virginie's sister at La Glaciere, in the
house of that friend who was going to start a hat factory. She had no
thought of running after him. She had been so distressed at first that
she had thought of drowning herself in the river. But now that she had
thought about it, everything seemed to be for the best. Lantier went
through money so fast, that she probably never could have raised her
children properly. Oh, she'd let him see his children, all right, if
he bothered to come round. But as far as she was concerned, she didn't
want him to touch her, not even with his finger tips.

She told all this to Coupeau just as if her plan of life was well
settled. Meanwhile, Coupeau never forgot his desire to possess her. He
made a jest of everything she said, turning it into ribaldry and
asking some very direct questions about Lantier. But he proceeded so
gaily and which such a smile that she never thought of being offended.

"So, you're the one who beat him," said he at length. "Oh! you're not
kind. You just go around whipping people."

She interrupted him with a hearty laugh. It was true, though, she had
whipped Virginie's tall carcass. She would have delighted in
strangling someone on that day. She laughed louder than ever when
Coupeau told her that Virginie, ashamed at having shown so much
cowardice, had left the neighborhood. Her face, however, preserved an
expression of childish gentleness as she put out her plump hands,
insisting she wouldn't even harm a fly.

She began to tell Coupeau about her childhood at Plassans. She had
never cared overmuch for men; they had always bored her. She was
fourteen when she got involved with Lantier. She had thought it was
nice because he said he was her husband and she had enjoyed playing a
housewife. She was too soft-hearted and too weak. She always got
passionately fond of people who caused her trouble later. When she
loved a man, she wasn't thinking of having fun in the present; she was
dreaming about being happy and living together forever.

And as Coupeau, with a chuckle, spoke of her two children, saying they
hadn't come from under a bolster, she slapped his fingers; she added
that she was, no doubt made on the model of other women; women thought
of their home, slaved to keep the place clean and tidy, and went to
bed too tired at night not to go to sleep at once. Besides, she
resembled her mother, a stout laboring woman who died at her work and
who had served as beast of burden to old Macquart for more than twenty
years. Her mother's shoulders had been heavy enough to smash through
doors, but that didn't prevent her from being soft-hearted and madly
attracted to people. And if she limped a little, she no doubt owed
that to the poor woman, whom old Macquart used to belabor with blows.
Her mother had told her about the times when Macquart came home drunk
and brutally bruised her. She had probably been born with her lame leg
as a result of one of those times.

"Oh! it's scarcely anything, it's hardly perceptible," said Coupeau
gallantly.

She shook her head; she knew well enough that it could be seen; at
forty she would look broken in two. Then she added gently, with a
slight laugh: "It's a funny fancy of yours to fall in love with a
cripple."

With his elbows still on the table, he thrust his face closer to hers
and began complimenting her in rather dubious language as though to
intoxicate her with his words. But she kept shaking her head "no," and
didn't allow herself to be tempted although she was flattered by the
tone of his voice. While listening, she kept looking out the window,
seeming to be fascinated by the interesting crowd of people passing.

The shops were now almost empty. The grocer removed his last panful of
fried potatoes from the stove. The sausage man arranged the dishes
scattered on his counter. Great bearded workmen were as playful as
young boys, clumping along in their hobnailed boots. Other workmen
were smoking, staring up into the sky and blinking their eyes. Factory
bells began to ring in the distance, but the workers, in no hurry,
relit their pipes. Later, after being tempted by one wineshop after
another, they finally decided to return to their jobs, but were still
dragging their feet.

Gervaise amused herself by watching three workmen, a tall fellow and
two short ones who turned to look back every few yards; they ended by
descending the street, and came straight to Pere Colombe's
l'Assommoir.

"Ah, well," murmured she, "there're three fellows who don't seem
inclined for work!"

"Why!" said Coupeau, "I know the tall one, it's My-Boots, a comrade of
mine."

Pere Colombe's l'Assommoir was now full. You had to shout to be heard.
Fists often pounded on the bar, causing the glasses to clink. Everyone
was standing, hands crossed over belly or held behind back. The
drinking groups crowded close to one another. Some groups, by the
casks, had to wait a quarter of an hour before being able to order
their drinks of Pere Colombe.

"Hallo! It's that aristocrat, Young Cassis!" cried My-Boots, bringing
his hand down roughly on Coupeau's shoulder. A fine gentleman, who
smokes paper, and wears shirts! So we want to do the grand with our
sweetheart; we stand her little treats!"

"Shut up! Don't bother me!" replied Coupeau, greatly annoyed.

But the other added, with a chuckle, "Right you are! We know what's
what, my boy. Muffs are muffs, that's all!"

He turned his back after leering terribly as he looked at Gervaise.
The latter drew back, feeling rather frightened. The smoke from the
pipes, the strong odor of all those men, ascended in the air, already
foul with the fumes of alcohol; and she felt a choking sensation in
her throat, and coughed slightly.

"Oh, what a horrible thing it is to drink!" said she in a low voice.

And she related that formerly at Plassans she used to drink anisette
with her mother. But on one occasion it nearly killed her, and that
disgusted her with it; now, she could never touch any liqueurs.

"You see," added she, pointing to her glass, "I've eaten my plum; only
I must leave the juice, because it would make me ill."

For himself, Coupeau couldn't understand how anyone could drink glass
after glass of cheap brandy. A brandied plum occasionally could not
hurt, but as for cheap brandy, absinthe and the other strong stuff,
no, not for him, no matter how much his comrades teased him about it.
He stayed out on the sidewalk when his friends went into low
establishments. Coupeau's father had smashed his head open one day
when he fell from the eaves of No. 25 on Rue Coquenard. He was drunk.
This memory keep Coupeau's entire family from the drink. Every time
Coupeau passed that spot, he thought he would rather lick up water
from the gutter than accept a free drink in a bar. He would always
say: "In our trade, you have to have steady legs."

Gervaise had taken up her basket again. She did not rise from her seat
however, but held the basket on her knees, with a vacant look in her
eyes and lost in thought, as though the young workman's words had
awakened within her far-off thoughts of existence. And she said again,
slowly, and without any apparent change of manner:

"/Mon Dieu/! I'm not ambitious; I don't ask for much. My desire is to
work in peace, always to have bread to eat and a decent place to sleep
in, you know; with a bed, a table, and two chairs, nothing more. If I
can, I'd like to raise my children to be good citizens. Also, I'd like
not to be beaten up, if I ever again live with a man. It's not my idea
of amusement." She pondered, thinking if there was anything else she
wanted, but there wasn't anything of importance. Then, after a moment
she went on, "Yes, when one reaches the end, one might wish to die in
one's bed. For myself, having trudged through life, I should like to
die in my bed, in my own home."

And she rose from her seat. Coupeau, who cordially approved her
wishes, was already standing up, anxious about the time. But they did
not leave yet. Gervaise was curious enough to go to the far end of the
room for a look at the big still behind the oak railing. It was
chugging away in the little glassed-in courtyard. Coupeau explained
its workings to her, pointing at the different parts of the machinery,
showing her the trickling of the small stream of limpid alcohol. Not a
single gay puff of steam was coming forth from the endless coils. The
breathing could barely be heard. It sounded muffled as if from
underground. It was like a sombre worker, performing dark deeds in the
bright daylight, strong but silent.

My-Boots, accompanied by his two comrades, came to lean on the railing
until they could get a place at the bar. He laughed, looking at the
machine. /Tonnerre de Dieu/, that's clever. There's enough stuff in
its big belly to last for weeks. He wouldn't mind if they just fixed
the end of the tube in his mouth, so he could feel the fiery spirits
flowing down to his heels like a river. It would be better than the
tiny sips doled out by Pere Colombe! His two comrades laughed with
him, saying that My-Boots was quite a guy after all.

The huge still continued to trickle forth its alcoholic sweat.
Eventually it would invade the bar, flow out along the outer
Boulevards, and inundate the immense expanse of Paris.

Gervaise stepped back, shivering. She tried to smile as she said:

"It's foolish, but that still and the liquor gives me the creeps."

Then, returning to the idea she nursed of a perfect happiness, she
resumed: "Now, ain't I right? It's much the nicest isn't it--to have
plenty of work, bread to eat, a home of one's own, and to be able to
bring up one's children and to die in one's bed?"

"And never to be beaten," added Coupeau gaily. "But I would never beat
you, if you would only try me, Madame Gervaise. You've no cause for
fear. I don't drink and then I love you too much. Come, shall it be
marriage? I'll get you divorced and make you my wife."

He was speaking low, whispering at the back of her neck while she made
her way through the crowd of men with her basket held before her. She
kept shaking her head "no." Yet she turned around to smile at him,
apparently happy to know that he never drank. Yes, certainly, she
would say "yes" to him, except she had already sworn to herself never
to start up with another man. Eventually they reached the door and
went out.

When they left, l'Assommoir was packed to the door, spilling its
hubbub of rough voices and its heavy smell of vitriol into the street.
My-Boots could be heard railing at Pere Colombe, calling him a
scoundrel and accusing him of only half filling his glass. He didn't
have to come in here. He'd never come back. He suggested to his
comrades a place near the Barriere Saint-Denis where you drank good
stuff straight.

"Ah," sighed Gervaise when they reached the sidewalk. "You can breathe
out here. Good-bye, Monsieur Coupeau, and thank you. I must hurry
now."

He seized her hand as she started along the boulevard, insisting,
"Take a walk with me along Rue de la Goutte-d'Or. It's not much
farther for you. I've got to see my sister before going back to work.
We'll keep each other company."

In the end, Gervaise agreed and they walked beside each other along
the Rue des Poissonniers, although she did not take his arm. He told
her about his family. His mother, an old vest-maker, now had to do
housekeeping because her eyesight was poor. Her birthday was the third
of last month and she was sixty-two. He was the youngest. One of his
sisters, a widow of thirty-six, worked in a flower shop and lived in
the Batignolles section, on Rue des Moines. The other sister was
thirty years old now. She had married a deadpan chainmaker named
Lorilleux. That's where he was going now. They lived in a big tenement
on the left side. He ate with them in the evenings; it saved a bit for
all of them. But he had been invited out this evening and he was going
to tell her not to expect him.

Gervaise, who was listening to him, suddenly interrupted him to ask,
with a smile: "So you're called 'Young Cassis,' Monsieur Coupeau?"

"Oh!" replied he, "it's a nickname my mates have given me because I
generally drink 'cassis' when they force me to accompany them to the
wineshop. It's no worse to be called Young Cassis than My-Boots, is
it?"

"Of course not. Young Cassis isn't an ugly name," observed the young
woman.

And she questioned him about his work. He was still working there,
behind the octroi wall at the new hospital. Oh! there was no want of
work, he would not be finished there for a year at least. There were
yards and yards of gutters!

"You know," said he, "I can see the Hotel Boncoeur when I'm up there.
Yesterday you were at the window, and I waved my arms, but you didn't
notice me."

They had already gone about a hundred paces along the Rue de la
Goutte-d'Or, when he stood still and raising his eyes, said:

"That's the house. I was born farther on, at No. 22. But this house
is, all the same, a fine block of masonry! It's as big as a barrack
inside!"

Gervaise looked up, examining the facade. On the street side, the
tenement had five stories, each with fifteen windows, whose black
shutters with their broken slats gave an air of desolation to the wide
expanse of wall. Four shops occupied the ground floor. To the right of
the entrance, a large, greasy hash house, and to the left, a coal
dealer, a notions seller, and an umbrella merchant. The building
appeared even larger than it was because it had on each side a small,
low building which seemed to lean against it for support. This
immense, squared-off building was outlined against the sky. Its
unplastered side walls were as bare as prison walls, except for rows
of roughly jutting stones which suggested jaws full of decayed teeth
yawning vacantly.

Gervaise was gazing at the entrance with interest. The high, arched
doorway rose to the second floor and opened onto a deep porch, at the
end of which could be seen the pale daylight of a courtyard. This
entranceway was paved like the street, and down the center flowed a
streamlet of pink-stained water.

"Come in," said Coupeau, "no one will eat you."

Gervaise wanted to wait for him in the street. However, she could not
resist going through the porch as far as the concierge's room on the
right. And there, on the threshold, she raised her eyes. Inside, the
building was six stories high, with four identical plain walls
enclosing the broad central court. The drab walls were corroded by
yellowish spots and streaked by drippings from the roof gutters. The
walls went straight up to the eaves with no molding or ornament except
the angles on the drain pipes at each floor. Here the sink drains
added their stains. The glass window panes resembled murky water.
Mattresses of checkered blue ticking were hanging out of several
windows to air. Clothes lines stretched from other windows with family
washing hanging to dry. On a third floor line was a baby's diaper,
still implanted with filth. This crowded tenement was bursting at the
seams, spilling out poverty and misery through every crevice.

Each of the four walls had, at ground level, a narrow entrance,
plastered without a trace of woodwork. This opened into a vestibule
containing a dirt-encrusted staircase which spiraled upward. They were
each labeled with one of the first four letters of the alphabet
painted on the wall.

Several large work-shops with weather-blackened skylights were
scattered about the court. Near the concierge's room was the dyeing
establishment responsible for the pink streamlet. Puddles of water
infested the courtyard, along with wood shavings and coal cinders.
Grass and weeds grew between the paving stones. The unforgiving
sunlight seemed to cut the court into two parts. On the shady side was
a dripping water tap with three small hens scratching for worms with
their filth-smeared claws.

Gervaise slowly gazed about, lowering her glance from the sixth floor
to the paving stones, then raising it again, surprised at the
vastness, feeling as it were in the midst of a living organ, in the
very heart of a city, and interested in the house, as though it were a
giant before her.

"Is madame seeking for any one?" called out the inquisitive concierge,
emerging from her room.

The young woman explained that she was waiting for a friend. She
returned to the street; then as Coupeau did not come, she went back to
the courtyard seized with the desire to take another look. She did not
think the house ugly. Amongst the rags hanging from the windows she
discovered various cheerful touches--a wall-flower blooming in a pot,
a cage of chirruping canaries, shaving-glasses shining like stars in
the depth of the shadow. A carpenter was singing in his work-shop,
accompanied by the whining of his plane. The blacksmith's hammers were
ringing rhythmically.

In contrast to the apparent wretched poverty, at nearly every open
window appeared the begrimed faces of laughing children. Women with
peaceful faces could be seen bent over their sewing. The rooms were
empty of men who had gone back to work after lunch. The whole tenement
was tranquil except for the sounds from the work-shops below which
served as a sort of lullaby that went on, unceasingly, always the
same.

The only thing she did not like was the courtyard's dampness. She
would want rooms at the rear, on the sunny side. Gervaise took a few
more steps into the courtyard, inhaling the characteristic odor of the
slums, comprised of dust and rotten garbage. But the sharp odor of the
waste water from the dye shop was strong, and Gervaise thought it
smelled better here than at the Hotel Boncoeur. She chose a window for
herself, the one at the far left with a small window box planted with
scarlet runners.

"I'm afraid I've kept you waiting rather a long time," said Coupeau,
whom she suddenly heard close beside her. "They always make an awful
fuss whenever I don't dine with them, and it was worse than ever
to-day as my sister had bought some veal."

And as Gervaise had slightly started with surprise, he continued
glancing around in his turn:

"You were looking at the house. It's always all let from the top to
the bottom. There are three hundred lodgers, I think. If I had any
furniture, I would have secured a small room. One would be comfortable
here, don't you think so?"

"Yes, one would be comfortable," murmured Gervaise. "In our street at
Plassans there weren't near so many people. Look, that's pretty--that
window up on the fifth floor, with the scarlet runners."

The zinc-worker's obstinate desire made him ask her once more whether
she would or she wouldn't. They could rent a place here as soon as
they found a bed. She hurried out the arched entranceway, asking him
not to start that subject again. There was as much chance of this
building collapsing as there was of her sleeping under the same
blanket with him. Still, when Coupeau left her in front of Madame
Fauconnier's shop, he was allowed to hold her hand for a moment.

For a month the young woman and the zinc-worker were the best of
friends. He admired her courage, when he beheld her half killing
herself with work, keeping her children tidy and clean, and yet
finding time at night to do a little sewing. Often other women were
hopelessly messy, forever nibbling or gadding about, but she wasn't
like them at all. She was much too serious. Then she would laugh, and
modestly defend herself. It was her misfortune that she had not always
been good, having been with a man when only fourteen. Then too, she
had often helped her mother empty a bottle of anisette. But she had
learned a few things from experience. He was wrong to think of her as
strong-willed; her will power was very weak. She had always let
herself be pushed into things because she didn't want to hurt
someone's feelings. Her one hope now was to live among decent people,
for living among bad people was like being hit over the head. It
cracks your skull. Whenever she thought of the future, she shivered.
Everything she had seen in life so far, especially when a child, had
given her lessons to remember.

Coupeau, however, chaffed her about her gloomy thoughts, and brought
back all her courage by trying to pinch her hips. She pushed him away
from her, and slapped his hands, whilst he called out laughingly that,
for a weak woman, she was not a very easy capture. He, who always
joked about everything did not trouble himself regarding the future.
One day followed another, that was all. There would always be
somewhere to sleep and a bite to eat. The neighborhood seemed decent
enough to him, except for a gang of drunkards that ought to be cleaned
out of the gutters.

Coupeau was not a bad sort of fellow. He sometimes had really sensible
things to say. He was something of a dandy with his Parisian working
man's gift for banter, a regular gift of gab, and besides, he was
attractive.

They had ended by rendering each other all sorts of services at the
Hotel Boncoeur. Coupeau fetched her milk, ran her errands, carried her
bundles of clothes; often of an evening, as he got home first from
work, he took the children for a walk on the exterior Boulevard.
Gervaise, in return for his polite attentions, would go up into the
narrow room at the top of the house where he slept, and see to his
clothes, sewing buttons on his blue linen trousers, and mending his
linen jackets. A great familiarity existed between them. She was never
bored when he was around. The gay songs he sang amused her, and so did
his continuous banter of jokes and jibes characteristic of the Paris
streets, this being still new to her.

On Coupeau's side, this continual familiarity inflamed him more and
more until it began to seriously bother him. He began to feel tense
and uneasy. He continued with his foolish talk, never failing to ask
her, "When will it be?" She understood what he meant and teased him.
He would then come to visit her carrying his bedroom slippers, as if
he were moving in. She joked about it and continued calmly without
blushing at the allusions with which he was always surrounding her.
She stood for anything from him as long as he didn't get rough. She
only got angry once when he pulled a strand of her hair while trying
to force a kiss from her.

Towards the end of June, Coupeau lost his liveliness. He became most
peculiar. Gervaise, feeling uneasy at some of his glances, barricaded
herself in at night. Then, after having sulked ever since the Sunday,
he suddenly came on the Tuesday night about eleven o'clock and knocked
at her room. She would not open to him; but his voice was so gentle
and so trembling that she ended by removing the chest of drawers she
had pushed against the door. When he entered, she thought he was ill;
he looked so pale, his eyes were so red, and the veins on his face
were all swollen. And he stood there, stuttering and shaking his head.
No, no, he was not ill. He had been crying for two hours upstairs in
his room; he wept like a child, biting his pillow so as not to be
heard by the neighbors. For three nights past he had been unable to
sleep. It could not go on like that.

"Listen, Madame Gervaise," said he, with a swelling in his throat and
on the point of bursting out crying again; "we must end this, mustn't
we? We'll go and get married. It's what I want. I've quite made up my
mind."

Gervaise showed great surprise. She was very grave.

"Oh! Monsieur Coupeau," murmured she, "whatever are you thinking of?
You know I've never asked you for that. I didn't care about it--that
was all. Oh, no, no! it's serious now; think of what you're saying, I
beg of you."

But he continued to shake his head with an air of unalterable
resolution. He had already thought it all over. He had come down
because he wanted to have a good night. She wasn't going to send him
back to weep again he supposed! As soon as she said "yes," he would no
longer bother her, and she could go quietly to bed. He only wanted to
hear her say "yes." They could talk it over on the morrow.

"But I certainly can't say 'yes' just like that," resumed Gervaise. "I
don't want you to be able to accuse me later on of having incited you
to do a foolish thing. You shouldn't be so insistent, Monsieur
Coupeau. You can't really be sure that you're in love with me. If you
didn't see me for a week, it might fade away. Sometimes men get
married and then there's day after day, stretching out into an entire
lifetime, and they get pretty well bored by it all. Sit down there;
I'm willing to talk it over at once."

Then until one in the morning, in the dark room and by the faint light
of a smoky tallow candle which they forgot to snuff, they talked of
their marriage, lowering their voices so as not to wake the two
children, Claude and Etienne, who were sleeping, both heads on the
same pillow. Gervaise kept pointing out the children to Coupeau, what
a funny kind of dowry they were. She really shouldn't burden him with
them. Besides, what would the neighbors say? She'd feel ashamed for
him because everyone knew about the story of her life and her lover.
They wouldn't think it decent if they saw them getting married barely
two months later.

Coupeau replied by shrugging his shoulders. He didn't care about the
neighbors! He never bothered about their affairs. So, there was
Lantier before him, well, so what? What's so bad about that? She
hadn't been constantly bringing men upstairs, as some women did, even
rich ladies! The children would grow up, they'd raise them right.
Never had he known before such a woman, such sound character, so good-
hearted. Anyway, she could have been anything, a streetwalker, ugly,
lazy and good-for-nothing, with a whole gang of dirty kids, and so
what? He wanted her.

"Yes, I want you," he repeated, bringing his hand down on his knee
with a continuos hammering. "You understand, I want you. There's
nothing to be said to that, is there?"

Little by little, Gervaise gave way. Her emotions began to take
control when faced with his encompassing desire. Still, with her hands
in her lap and her face suffused with a soft sweetness, she hesitantly
offered objections. From outside, through the half-open window, a
lovely June night breathed in puffs of sultry air, disturbing the
candle with its long wick gleaming red like a glowing coal. In the
deep silence of the sleeping neighborhood the only sound was the
infantile weeping of a drunkard lying in the middle of the street. Far
away, in the back room of some restaurant, a violin was playing a
dance tune for some late party.

Coupeau was silent. Then, knowing she had no more arguments, he
smiled, took hold of her hands and pulled her toward him. She was in
one of those moments of weakness she so greatly mistrusted, persuaded
at last, too emotionally stirred to refuse anything or to hurt
anyone's feelings. Coupeau didn't realize that she was giving way. He
held her wrists so tightly as to almost crush them. Together they
breathed a long sigh that to both of them meant a partial satisfaction
of their desire.

"You'll say 'yes,' won't you," asked he.

"How you worry me!" she murmured. "You wish it? Well then, 'yes.' Ah!
we're perhaps doing a very foolish thing."

He jumped up, and, seizing her round the waist, kissed her roughly on
the face, at random. Then, as this caress caused a noise, he became
anxious, and went softly and looked at Claude and Etienne.

"Hush, we must be careful," said he in a whisper, "and not wake the
children. Good-bye till to-morrow."

And he went back to his room. Gervaise, all in a tremble, remained
seated on the edge of her bed, without thinking of undressing herself
for nearly an hour. She was touched; she felt that Coupeau was very
honorable; for at one moment she had really thought it was all over,
and that he would forget her. The drunkard below, under the window,
was now hoarsely uttering the plaintive cry of some lost animal. The
violin in the distance had left off its saucy tune and was now silent.

During the following days Coupeau sought to get Gervaise to call some
evening on his sister in the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or; but the young
woman, who was very timid, showed a great dread of this visit to the
Lorilleux. She knew that Coupeau had a lingering fear of that
household, even though he certainly wasn't dependent on his sister,
who wasn't even the oldest of the family. Mamma Coupeau would
certainly give her consent at once, as she never refused her only son
anything. The thing was that the Lorilleuxs were supposed to be
earning ten francs a day or more and that gave them a certain
authority. Coupeau would never dare to get married unless his wife was
acceptable to them.

"I have spoken to them of you, they know our plans," explained he to
Gervaise. "Come now! What a child you are! Let's call on them this
evening. I've warned you, haven't I? You'll find my sister rather
stiff. Lorilleux, too, isn't always very amiable. In reality they are
greatly annoyed, because if I marry, I shall no longer take my meals
with them, and it'll be an economy the less. But that doesn't matter,
they won't turn you out. Do this for me, it's absolutely necessary."

These words only frightened Gervaise the more. One Saturday evening,
however, she gave in. Coupeau came for her at half-past eight. She had
dressed herself in a black dress, a crape shawl with yellow palms, and
a white cap trimmed with a little cheap lace. During the six weeks she
had been working, she had saved the seven francs for the shawl, and
the two and a half francs for the cap; the dress was an old one
cleaned and made up afresh.

"They're expecting you," said Coupeau to her, as they went round by
the Rue des Poissonniers. "Oh! they're beginning to get used to the
idea of my being married. They seem nice indeed, to-night. And you
know if you've never seen gold chains made, it'll amuse you to watch
them. They just happen to have a pressing order for Monday."

"They've got gold in their room?" asked Gervaise.

"I should think so; there's some on the walls, on the floor, in fact
everywhere."

They had passed the arched doorway and crossed the courtyard. The
Lorilleuxs lived on the sixth floor, staircase B. Coupeau laughingly
told her to hold the hand-rail tight and not to leave go of it. She
looked up, and blinked her eyes, as she perceived the tall hollow
tower of the staircase, lighted by three gas jets, one on every second
landing; the last one, right up at the top looked like a star
twinkling in a black sky, whilst the other two cast long flashes of
light, of fantastic shapes, among the interminable windings of the
stairs.

"By Jove!" said the zinc-worker as he reached the first floor,
smiling, "there's a strong smell of onion soup. Someone's having
onion soup, I'm sure."

Staircase B, with its gray, dirty steps and hand-rail, its scratched
walls and chipped plaster, was full of strong kitchen odors. Long
corridors, echoing with noise, led away from each landing. Doors,
painted yellow, gaped open, smeared black around the latch from dirty
hands. A sink on each landing gave forth a fetid humidity, adding its
stench to the sharp flavor of the cooking of onions. From the
basement, all the way to the sixth floor, you could hear dishes
clattering, saucepans being rinsed, pots being scraped and scoured.

On the first floor Gervaise saw a half-opened door with the word
"Designer" written on it in large letters. Inside were two men sitting
by a table, the dishes cleared away from its oilcloth cover, arguing
furiously amid a cloud of pipe smoke. The second and third floors were
quieter, and through cracks in the woodwork only such sounds filtered
as the rhythm of a cradle rocking, the stifled crying of a child, a
woman's voice sounding like the dull murmur of running water with no
words distinct. Gervaise read the various signs on the doors giving
the names of the occupants: "Madame Gaudron, wool-carder" and
"Monsieur Madinier, cardboard boxes." There was a fight in progress on
the fourth floor: a stomping of feet that shook the floor, furniture
banged around, a racket of curses and blows; but this did not bother
the neighbors opposite, who were playing cards with their door opened
wide to admit more air.

When Gervaise reached the fifth floor, she had to stop to take a
breath; she was not used to going up so high; that wall for ever
turning, the glimpses she had of the lodgings following each other,
made her head ache. Anyway, there was a family almost blocking the
landing: the father washing the dishes over a small earthenware stove
near the sink and the mother sitting with her back to the stair-rail
and cleaning the baby before putting it to bed.

Coupeau kept urging Gervaise along, and they finally reached the sixth
floor. He encouraged her with a smile; they had arrived! She had been
hearing a voice all the way up from the bottom and she was gazing
upward, wondering where it could be coming from, a voice so clear and
piercing that it had dominated all the other sounds. It came from a
little old woman in an attic room who sang while putting dresses on
cheap dolls. When a tall girl came by with a pail of water and entered
a nearby apartment, Gervaise saw a tumbled bed on which a man was
sprawled, his eyes fixed on the ceiling. As the door closed behind
her, Gervaise saw the hand-written card: "Mademoiselle Clemence,
ironing."

Now that she had finally made it to the top, her legs weary and her
breath short, Gervaise leaned over the railing to look down. Now it
was the gaslight on the first floor which seemed a distant star at the
bottom of a narrow well six stories deep. All the odors and all the
murmurings of the immense variety of life within the tenement came up
to her in one stifling breath that flushed her face as she hazarded a
worried glance down into the gulf below.

"We're not there yet," said Coupeau. "Oh! It's quite a journey!"

He had gone down a long corridor on the left. He turned twice, the
first time also to the left, the second time to the right. The
corridor still continued branching off, narrowing between walls full
of crevices, with plaster peeling off, and lighted at distant
intervals by a slender gas-jet; and the doors all alike, succeeded
each other the same as the doors of a prison or a convent, and nearly
all open, continued to display homes of misery and work, which the hot
June evening filled with a reddish mist. At length they reached a
small passage in complete darkness.

"We're here," resumed the zinc-worker. "Be careful, keep to the wall;
there are three steps."

And Gervaise carefully took another ten steps in the obscurity. She
stumbled and then counted the three steps. But at the end of the
passage Coupeau had opened a door, without knocking. A brilliant light
spread over the tiled floor. They entered.

It was a narrow apartment, and seemed as if it were the continuation
of the corridor. A faded woolen curtain, raised up just then by a
string, divided the place in two. The first part contained a bedstead
pushed beneath an angle of the attic ceiling, a cast-iron stove still
warm from the cooking of the dinner, two chairs, a table and a
wardrobe, the cornice of which had had to be sawn off to make it fit
in between the door and the bedstead. The second part was fitted up as
a work-shop; at the end, a narrow forge with its bellows; to the
right, a vise fixed to the wall beneath some shelves on which pieces
of old iron lay scattered; to the left near the window, a small
workman's bench, encumbered with greasy and very dirty pliers, shears
and microscopical saws, all very dirty and grimy.

"It's us!" cried Coupeau advancing as far as the woolen curtain.

But no one answered at first. Gervaise, deeply affected, moved
especially by the thought that she was about to enter a place full of
gold, stood behind the zinc-worker, stammering and venturing upon nods
of her head by way of bowing. The brilliant light, a lamp burning on
the bench, a brazier full of coals flaring in the forge, increased her
confusion still more. She ended however, by distinguishing Madame
Lorilleux--little, red-haired and tolerably strong, pulling with all
the strength of her short arms, and with the assistance of a big pair
of pincers, a thread of black metal which she passed through the holes
of a draw-plate fixed to the vise. Seated in front of the bench,
Lorilleux, quite as small of stature, but more slender in the
shoulders, worked with the tips of his pliers, with the vivacity of a
monkey, at a labor so minute, that it was impossible to follow it
between his scraggy fingers. It was the husband who first raised his
head--a head with scanty locks, the face of the yellow tinge of old
wax, long, and with an ailing expression.

"Ah! it's you; well, well!" murmured he. "We're in a hurry you know.
Don't come into the work-room, you'd be in our way. Stay in the
bedroom."

And he resumed his minute task, his face again in the reflection of a
glass globe full of green-colored water, through which the lamp shed a
circle of bright light over his work.

"Take the chairs!" called out Madame Lorilleux in her turn. "It's that
lady, isn't it? Very well, very well!"

She had rolled the wire and she carried it to the forge, and then,
reviving the fire of the brazier with a large wooden fan, she
proceeded to temper the wire before passing it through the last holes
of the draw-plate.

Coupeau moved the chairs forward and seated Gervaise by the curtain.
The room was so narrow that he could not sit beside her, so he sat
behind her, leaning over her shoulder to explain the work in progress.
Gervaise was intimidated by this strange reception and felt uneasy.
She had a buzzing in her ears and couldn't hear clearly. She thought
the wife looked older than her thirty years and not very neat with her
hair in a pigtail dangling down the back of her loosely worn wrapper.
The husband, who was only a year older, appeared already an old man
with mean, thin lips, as he sat there working in his shirt sleeves
with his bare feet thrust into down at the heel slippers. Gervaise was
dismayed by the smallness of the shop, the grimy walls, the rustiness
of the tools, and the black soot spread all over what looked like the
odds and ends of a scrap-iron peddler's wares.

"And the gold?" asked Gervaise in a low voice.

Her anxious glances searched the corners and sought amongst all that
filth for the resplendence she had dreamt of. But Coupeau burst out
laughing.

"Gold?" said he; "why there's some; there's some more, and there's
some at your feet!"

He pointed successively to the fine wire at which his sister was
working, and to another roll of wire, similar to the ordinary iron
wire, hanging against the wall close to the vise; then going down on
all fours, he picked up, beneath the wooden screen which covered the
tiled floor of the work-room, a piece of waste, a tiny fragment
resembling the point of a rusty needle. But Gervaise protested; that
couldn't be gold, that blackish piece of metal as ugly as iron! He had
to bite into the piece and show her the gleaming notch made by his
teeth. Then he continued his explanations: the employers provided the
gold wire, already alloyed; the craftsmen first pulled it through the
draw-plate to obtain the correct size, being careful to anneal it five
or six times to keep it from breaking. It required a steady, strong
hand, and plenty of practice. His sister would not let her husband
touch the wire-drawing since he was subject to coughing spells. She
had strong arms for it; he had seen her draw gold to the fineness of a
hair.

Lorilleux, seized with a fit of coughing, almost doubled up on his
stool. In the midst of the paroxysm, he spoke, and said in a choking
voice, still without looking at Gervaise, as though he was merely
mentioning the thing to himself:

"I'm making the herring-bone chain."

Coupeau urged Gervaise to get up. She might draw nearer and see. The
chainmaker consented with a grunt. He wound the wire prepared by his
wife round a mandrel, a very thin steel rod. Then he sawed gently,
cutting the wire the whole length of the mandrel, each turn forming a
link, which he soldered. The links were laid on a large piece of
charcoal. He wetted them with a drop of borax, taken from the bottom
of a broken glass beside him; and he made them red-hot at the lamp
beneath the horizontal flame produced by the blow-pipe. Then, when he
had soldered about a hundred links he returned once more to his minute
work, propping his hands against the edge of the /cheville/, a small
piece of board which the friction of his hands had polished. He bent
each link almost double with the pliers, squeezed one end close,
inserted it in the last link already in place and then, with the aid
of a point opened out again the end he had squeezed; and he did this
with a continuous regularity, the links joining each other so rapidly
that the chain gradually grew beneath Gervaise's gaze, without her
being able to follow, or well understand how it was done.

"That's the herring-bone chain," said Coupeau. "There's also the long
link, the cable, the plain ring, and the spiral. But that's the
herring-bone. Lorilleux only makes the herring-bone chain."

The latter chuckled with satisfaction. He exclaimed, as he continued
squeezing the links, invisible between his black finger-nails.

"Listen to me, Young Cassis! I was making a calculation this morning.
I commenced work when I was twelve years old, you know. Well! Can you
guess how long a herring-bone chain I must have made up till to-day?"

He raised his pale face, and blinked his red eye-lids.

"Twenty-six thousand feet, do you hear? Two leagues! That's something!
A herring-bone chain two leagues long! It's enough to twist round the
necks of all the women of the neighborhood. And you know, it's still
increasing. I hope to make it long enough to reach from Paris to
Versailles."

Gervaise had returned to her seat, disenchanted and thinking
everything very ugly. She smiled to be polite to the Lorilleuxs. The
complete silence about her marriage bothered her. It was the sole
reason for her having come. The Lorilleuxs were treating her as some
stranger brought in by Coupeau. When a conversation finally did get
started, it concerned the building's tenants. Madame Lorilleux asked
her husband if he had heard the people on the fourth floor having a
fight. They fought every day. The husband usually came home drunk and
the wife had her faults too, yelling in the filthiest language. Then
they spoke of the designer on the first floor, an uppity show-off with
a mound of debts, always smoking, always arguing loudly with his
friends. Monsieur Madinier's cardboard business was barely surviving.
He had let two girl workers go yesterday. The business ate up all his
money, leaving his children to run around in rags. And that Madame
Gaudron was pregnant again; this was almost indecent at her age. The
landlord was going to evict the Coquets on the fifth floor. They owed
nine months' rent, and besides, they insisted on lighting their stove
out on the landing. Last Saturday the old lady on the sixth floor,
Mademoiselle Remanjou, had arrived just in time to save the Linguerlot
child from being badly burned. Mademoiselle Clemence, one who took in
ironing, well, she lived life as she pleased. She was so kind to
animals though and had such a good heart that you couldn't say
anything against her. It was a pity, a fine girl like her, the company
she kept. She'd be walking the streets before long.

"Look, here's one," said Lorilleux to his wife, giving her the piece
of chain he had been working on since his lunch. "You can trim it."
And he added, with the persistence of a man who does not easily
relinquish a joke: "Another four feet and a half. That brings me
nearer to Versailles."

Madame Lorilleux, after tempering it again, trimmed it by passing it
through the regulating draw-plate. Then she put it in a little copper
saucepan with a long handle, full of lye-water, and placed it over the
fire of the forge. Gervaise, again pushed forward by Coupeau, had to
follow this last operation. When the chain was thoroughly cleansed, it
appeared a dull red color. It was finished, and ready to be delivered.

"They're always delivered like that, in their rough state," the zinc-
worker explained. "The polishers rub them afterwards with cloths."

Gervaise felt her courage failing her. The heat, more and more
intense, was suffocating her. They kept the door shut, because
Lorilleux caught cold from the least draught. Then as they still did
not speak of the marriage, she wanted to go away and gently pulled
Coupeau's jacket. He understood. Besides, he also was beginning to
feel ill at ease and vexed at their affectation of silence.

"Well, we're off," said he. "We mustn't keep you from your work."

He moved about for a moment, waiting, hoping for a word or some
allusion or other. At length he decided to broach the subject himself.

"I say, Lorilleux, we're counting on you to be my wife's witness."

The chainmaker pretended, with a chuckle, to be greatly surprised;
whilst his wife, leaving her draw-plates, placed herself in the middle
of the work-room.

"So it's serious then?" murmured he. "That confounded Young Cassis,
one never knows whether he is joking or not."

"Ah! yes, madame's the person involved," said the wife in her turn, as
she stared rudely at Gervaise. "/Mon Dieu!/ We've no advice to give
you, we haven't. It's a funny idea to go and get married, all the
same. Anyhow, it's your own wish. When it doesn't succeed, one's only
got oneself to blame, that's all. And it doesn't often succeed, not
often, not often."

She uttered these last words slower and slower, and shaking her head,
she looked from the young woman's face to her hands, and then to her
feet as though she had wished to undress her and see the very pores of
her skin. She must have found her better than she expected.

"My brother is perfectly free," she continued more stiffly. "No doubt
the family might have wished--one always makes projects. But things
take such funny turns. For myself, I don't want to have any
unpleasantness. Had he brought us the lowest of the low, I should
merely have said: 'Marry her and go to blazes!' He was not badly off
though, here with us. He's fat enough; one can very well see he didn't
fast much; and he always found his soup hot right on time. I say,
Lorilleux, don't you think madame's like Therese--you know who I mean,
that woman who used to live opposite, and who died of consumption?"

"Yes, there's a certain resemblance," replied the chainmaker.

"And you've got two children, madame? Now, I must admit I said to my
brother: 'I can't understand how you can want to marry a woman who's
got two children.' You mustn't be offended if I consult his interests;
its only natural. You don't look strong either. Don't you think,
Lorilleux, that madame doesn't look very strong?"

"No, no, she's not strong."

They did not mention her leg; but Gervaise understood by their side
glances, and the curling of their lips, that they were alluding to it.
She stood before them, wrapped in her thin shawl with the yellow
palms, replying in monosyllables, as though in the presence of her
judges. Coupeau, seeing she was suffering, ended by exclaiming:

"All that's nothing to do with it. What you are talking about isn't
important. The wedding will take place on Saturday, July 29. I
calculated by the almanac. Is it settled? Does it suit you?"

"Oh, it's all the same to us," said his sister. "There was no
necessity to consult us. I shan't prevent Lorilleux being witness. I
only want peace and quiet."

Gervaise, hanging her head, not knowing what to do with herself had
put the toe of her boot through one of the openings in the wooden
screen which covered the tiled floor of the work-room; then afraid of
having disturbed something when she had withdrawn it, she stooped down
and felt about with her hand. Lorilleux hastily brought the lamp, and
he examined her fingers suspiciously.

"You must be careful," said he, "the tiny bits of gold stick to the
shoes, and get carried away without one knowing it."

It was all to do with business. The employers didn't allow a single
speck for waste. He showed her the rabbit's foot he used to brush off
any flecks of gold left on the /cheville/ and the leather he kept on
his lap to catch any gold that fell. Twice weekly the shop was swept
out carefully, the sweepings collected and burned and the ashes
sifted. This recovered up to twenty-five or thirty francs' worth of
gold a month.

Madame Lorilleux could not take her eyes from Gervaise's shoes.

"There's no reason to get angry," murmured she with an amiable smile.
"But, perhaps madame would not mind looking at the soles of her
shoes."

And Gervaise, turning very red, sat down again, and holding up her
feet showed that there was nothing clinging to them. Coupeau had
opened the door, exclaiming: "Good-night!" in an abrupt tone of voice.
He called to her from the corridor. Then she in her turn went off,
after stammering a few polite words: she hoped to see them again, and
that they would all agree well together. Both of the Lorilleux had
already gone back to their work at the far end of their dark hole of a
work-room. Madame Lorilleux, her skin reflecting the red glow from the
bed of coals, was drawing on another wire. Each effort swelling her
neck and making the strained muscles stand out like taut cords. Her
husband, hunched over beneath the greenish gleam of the globe was
starting another length of chain, twisting each link with his pliers,
pressing it on one side, inserting it into the next link above,
opening it again with the pointed tool, continuously, mechanically,
not wasting a motion, even to wipe the sweat from his face.

When Gervaise emerged from the corridor on to the landing, she could
not help saying, with tears in her eyes:

"That doesn't promise much happiness."

Coupeau shook his head furiously. He would get even with Lorilleux for
that evening. Had anyone ever seen such a miserly fellow? To think
that they were going to walk off with two or three grains of his gold
dust! All the fuss they made was from pure avarice. His sister thought
perhaps that he would never marry, so as to enable her to economize
four sous on her dinner every day. However, it would take place all
the same on July 29. He did not care a hang for them!

Nevertheless, Gervaise still felt depressed. Tormented by a foolish
fearfulness, she peered anxiously into every dark shadow along the
stair-rail as she descended. It was dark and deserted at this hour,
lit only by a single gas jet on the second floor. In the shadowy
depths of the dark pit, it gave a spot of brightness, even with its
flamed turned so low. It was now silent behind the closed doors; the
weary laborers had gone to sleep after eating. However, there was a
soft laugh from Mademoiselle Clemence's room and a ray of light shone
through the keyhole of Mademoiselle Remanjou's door. She was still
busy cutting out dresses for the dolls. Downstairs at Madame
Gaudron's, a child was crying. The sinks on the landings smelled more
offensive than ever in the midst of the darkness and stillness.

In the courtyard, Gervaise turned back for a last look at the tenement
as Coupeau called out to the concierge. The building seemed to have
grown larger under the moonless sky. The drip-drip of water from the
faucet sounded loud in the quiet. Gervaise felt that the building was
threatening to suffocate her and a chill went through her body. It was
a childish fear and she smiled at it a moment later.

"Watch your step," warned Coupeau.

To get to the entrance, Gervaise had to jump over a wide puddle that
had drained from the dye shop. The puddle was blue now, the deep blue
of a summer sky. The reflections from the night light of the concierge
sparkled in it like stars.



                             CHAPTER III.

Gervaise did not want to have a wedding-party! What was the use of
spending money? Besides, she still felt somewhat ashamed; it seemed to
her quite unnecessary to parade the marriage before the whole
neighborhood. But Coupeau cried out at that. One could not be married
without having a feed. He did not care a button for the people of the
neighborhood! Nothing elaborate, just a short walk and a rabbit ragout
in the first eating-house they fancied. No music with dessert. Just a
glass or two and then back home.

The zinc-worker, chaffing and joking, at length got the young woman to
consent by promising her that there should be no larks. He would keep
his eye on the glasses, to prevent sunstrokes. Then he organized a
sort of picnic at five francs a head, at the "Silver Windmill," kept
by Auguste, on the Boulevard de la Chapelle. It was a small cafe with
moderate charges and had a dancing place in the rear, beneath the
three acacias in the courtyard. They would be very comfortable on the
first floor. During the next ten days, he got hold of guests in the
house where his sister lived in the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or--Monsieur
Madinier, Mademoiselle Remanjou, Madame Gaudron and her husband. He
even ended by getting Gervaise to consent to the presence of two of
his comrades--Bibi-the-Smoker and My-Boots. No doubt My-Boots was a
boozer; but then he had such a fantastic appetite that he was always
asked to join those sort of gatherings, just for the sight of the
caterer's mug when he beheld that bottomless pit swallowing his twelve
pounds of bread. The young woman on her side, promised to bring her
employer Madame Fauconnier and the Boches, some very agreeable people.
On counting, they found there would be fifteen to sit down to table,
which was quite enough. When there are too many, they always wind up
by quarrelling.

Coupeau however, had no money. Without wishing to show off, he
intended to behave handsomely. He borrowed fifty francs of his
employer. Out of that, he first of all purchased the wedding-ring--a
twelve franc gold wedding-ring, which Lorilleux procured for him at
the wholesale price of nine francs. He then bought himself a frock
coat, a pair of trousers and a waistcoat at a tailor's in the Rue
Myrrha, to whom he gave merely twenty-five francs on account; his
patent leather shoes and his hat were still good enough. When he had
put by the ten francs for his and Gervaise's share of the feast--the
two children not being charged for--he had exactly six francs left--
the price of a low mass at the altar of the poor. He had no liking for
those black crows, the priests. It would gripe him to pay his last six
francs to keep their whistles wet; however, a marriage without a mass
wasn't a real marriage at all.

Going to the church himself, he bargained for a whole hour with a
little old priest in a dirty cassock who was as sharp at dealing as a
push-cart peddler. Coupeau felt like boxing his ears. For a joke, he
asked the priest if he didn't have a second-hand mass that would do
for a modest young couple. The priest, mumbling that God would take
small pleasure in blessing their union, finally let his have his mass
for five francs. Well after all, that meant twenty sous saved.

Gervaise also wanted to look decent. As soon as the marriage was
settled, she made her arrangements, worked extra time in the evenings,
and managed to put thirty francs on one side. She had a great longing
for a little silk mantle marked thirteen francs in the Rue du Faubourg
Poissonniere. She treated herself to it, and then bought for ten
francs of the husband of a washerwoman who had died in Madame
Fauconnier's house a blue woolen dress, which she altered to fit
herself. With the seven francs remaining she procured a pair of cotton
gloves, a rose for her cap, and some shoes for Claude, her eldest boy.
Fortunately the youngsters' blouses were passable. She spent four
nights cleaning everything, and mending the smallest holes in her
stockings and chemise.

On Friday night, the eve of the great day, Gervaise and Coupeau had
still a good deal of running about to do up till eleven o'clock, after
returning home from work. Then before separating for the night they
spent an hour together in the young woman's room, happy at being about
to be released from their awkward position. In spite of the fact that
they had originally resolved not to put themselves out to impress the
neighbors, they had ended by taking it seriously and working
themselves till they were weary. By the time they said "Good-night,"
they were almost asleep on their feet. They breathed a great sigh of
relief now that everything was ready.

Coupeau's witnesses were to be Monsieur Madinier and Bibi-the-Smoker.
They were counting on Lorilleux and Boche for Gervaise's witnesses.
They were to go quietly to the mayor's office and the church, just the
six of them, without a whole procession of people trailing behind
them. The bridegroom's two sisters had even declared that they would
stay home, their presence not being necessary. Coupeau's mother,
however, had sobbed and wailed, threatening to go ahead of them and
hide herself in some corner of the church, until they had promised to
take her along. The meeting of the guests was set for one o'clock at
the Silver Windmill. From there, they would go to Saint-Denis, going
out by railroad and returning on foot along the highway in order to
work up an appetite. The party promised to be quite all right.

Saturday morning, while getting dressed, Coupeau felt a qualm of
uneasiness in view of the single franc in his pocket. He began to
think that it was a matter of ordinary courtesy to offer a glass of
wine and a slice of ham to the witnesses while awaiting dinner. Also,
there might be unforeseen expenses. So, after taking Claude and
Etienne to stay with Madame Boche, who was to bring them to the dinner
later that afternoon, he hurried over to the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or to
borrow ten francs from Lorilleux. Having to do that griped him
immensely as he could guess the attitude his brother-in-law would
take. The latter did grumble a bit, but ended by lending him two five-
franc pieces. However, Coupeau overheard his sister muttering under
her breath, "This is a fine beginning."

The ceremony at the mayor's was to take place at half-past ten. It was
beautiful weather--a magnificent sun seemed to roast the streets. So
as not to be stared at the bride and bridegroom, the old mother, and
the four witnesses separated into two bands. Gervaise walked in front
with Lorilleux, who gave her his arm; whilst Monsieur Madinier
followed with mother Coupeau. Then, twenty steps behind on the
opposite side of the way, came Coupeau, Boche, and Bibi-the-Smoker.
These three were in black frock coats, walking erect and swinging
their arms. Boche's trousers were bright yellow. Bibi-the-Smoker
didn't have a waistcoat so he was buttoned up to the neck with only a
bit of his cravat showing. The only one in a full dress suit was
Monsieur Madinier and passers-by gazed at this well-dressed gentleman
escorting the huge bulk of mother Coupeau in her green shawl and black
bonnet with red ribbons.

Gervaise looked very gay and sweet in her dress of vivid blue and with
her new silk mantle fitted tightly to her shoulders. She listened
politely to the sneering remarks of Lorilleux, who seemed buried in
the depths of the immense overcoat he was wearing. From time to time,
Gervaise would turn her head a little to smile brightly at Coupeau,
who was rather uncomfortable under the hot sun in his new clothes.

Though they walked very slowly, they arrived at the mayor's quite half
an hour too soon. And as the mayor was late, their turn was not
reached till close upon eleven o'clock. They sat down on some chairs
and waited in a corner of the apartment, looking by turns at the high
ceiling and bare walls, talking low, and over-politely pushing back
their chairs each time that one of the attendants passed. Yet among
themselves they called the mayor a sluggard, saying he must be
visiting his blonde to get a massage for his gout, or that maybe he'd
swallowed his official sash.

However, when the mayor did put in his appearance, they rose
respectfully in his honor. They were asked to sit down again and they
had to wait through three other marriages. The hall was crowded with
the three bourgeois wedding parties: brides all in white, little girls
with carefully curled hair, bridesmaids wearing wide sashes, an
endless procession of ladies and gentlemen dressed in their best and
looking very stylish.

When at length they were called, they almost missed being married
altogether. Bibi-the-Smoker having disappeared. Boche discovered him
outside smoking his pipe. Well! They were a nice lot inside there to
humbug people about like that, just because one hadn't yellow kid
gloves to shove under their noses! And the various formalities--the
reading of the Code, the different questions to be put, the signing of
all the documents--were all got through so rapidly that they looked at
each other with an idea that they had been robbed of a good half of
the ceremony. Gervaise, dizzy, her heart full, pressed her
handkerchief to her lips. Mother Coupeau wept bitterly. All had signed
the register, writing their names in big struggling letters with the
exception of the bridegroom, who not being able to write, had put his
cross. They each gave four sous for the poor. When an attendant handed
Coupeau the marriage certificate, the latter, prompted by Gervaise who
nudged his elbow, handed him another five sous.

It was a fair walk from the mayor's office in the town hall to the
church. The men stopped along the way to have a beer. Mother Coupeau
and Gervaise took cassis with water. Then they had to trudge along the
long street where the sun glared straight down without the relief of
shade.

When they arrived at the church they were hurried along and asked if
they came so late in order to make a mockery of religion. A priest
came forward, his face pale and resentful from having to delay his
lunch. An altar boy in a soiled surplice ran before him.

The mass went very fast, with the priest turning, bowing his head,
spreading out his arms, making all the ritual gestures in haste while
casting sidelong glances at the group. Gervaise and Coupeau, before
the altar, were embarrassed, not knowing when they should kneel or
rise or seat themselves, expecting some indication from the attendant.
The witnesses, not knowing what was proper, remained standing during
the ceremony. Mother Coupeau was weeping again and shedding her tears
into the missal she had borrowed from a neighbor.

Meanwhile, the noon chimes had sounded and the church began to fill
with noise from the shuffling feet of sacristans and the clatter of
chairs being put back in place. The high altar was apparently being
prepared for some special ceremony.

Thus, in the depths of this obscure chapel, amid the floating dust,
the surly priest placed his withered hands on the bared heads of
Gervaise and Coupeau, blessing their union amid a hubbub like that of
moving day. The wedding party signed another registry, this time in
the sacristy, and then found themselves out in the bright sunlight
before the church doors where they stood for a moment, breathless and
confused from having been carried along at such a break-neck speed.

"Voila!" said Coupeau with an embarrassed laugh. "Well, it sure didn't
take long. They shove it at you so; it's like being at the painless
dentist's who doesn't give you time to cry out. Here you get a
painless wedding!"

"Yes, it's a quick job," Lorilleux smirked. "In five minutes you're
tied together for the rest of your life. You poor Young Cassis, you've
had it."

The four witnesses whacked Coupeau on the shoulders as he arched his
back against the friendly blows. Meanwhile Gervaise was hugging and
kissing mother Coupeau, her eyes moist, a smile lighting her face. She
replied reassuringly to the old woman's sobbing: "Don't worry, I'll do
my best. I want so much to have a happy life. If it doesn't work out
it won't be my fault. Anyhow, it's done now. It's up to us to get
along together and do the best we can for each other."

After that they went straight to the Silver Windmill. Coupeau had
taken his wife's arm. They walked quickly, laughing as though carried
away, quite two hundred steps ahead of the others, without noticing
the houses or the passers-by, or the vehicles. The deafening noises of
the faubourg sounded like bells in their ears. When they reached the
wineshop, Coupeau at once ordered two bottles of wine, some bread and
some slices of ham, to be served in the little glazed closet on the
ground floor, without plates or table cloth, simply to have a snack.
Then, noticing that Boche and Bibi-the-Smoker seemed to be very
hungry, he had a third bottle brought, as well as a slab of brie
cheese. Mother Coupeau was not hungry, being too choked up to be able
to eat. Gervaise found herself very thirsty, and drank several large
glasses of water with a small amount of wine added.

"I'll settle for this," said Coupeau, going at once to the bar, where
he paid four francs and five sous.

It was now one o'clock and the other guests began to arrive. Madame
Fauconnier, a fat woman, still good looking, first put in an
appearance; she wore a chintz dress with a flowery pattern, a pink tie
and a cap over-trimmed with flowers. Next came Mademoiselle Remanjou,
looking very thin in the eternal black dress which she seemed to keep
on even when she went to bed; and the two Gaudrons--the husband, like
some heavy animal and almost bursting his brown jacket at the
slightest movement, the wife, an enormous woman, whose figure
indicated evident signs of an approaching maternity and whose stiff
violet colored skirt still more increased her rotundity. Coupeau
explained that they were not to wait for My-Boots; his comrade would
join the party on the Route de Saint-Denis.

"Well!" exclaimed Madame Lerat as she entered, "it'll pour in torrents
soon! That'll be pleasant!"

And she called everyone to the door of the wineshop to see the clouds
as black as ink which were rising rapidly to the south of Paris.
Madame Lerat, eldest of the Coupeaus, was a tall, gaunt woman who
talked through her nose. She was unattractively dressed in a puce-
colored robe that hung loosely on her and had such long dangling
fringes that they made her look like a skinny poodle coming out of the
water. She brandished her umbrella like a club. After greeting
Gervaise, she said, "You've no idea. The heat in the street is like a
slap on the face. You'd think someone was throwing fire at you."

Everyone agreed that they knew the storm was coming. It was in the
air. Monsieur Madinier said that he had seen it as they were coming
out of the church. Lorilleux mentioned that his corns were aching and
he hadn't been able to sleep since three in the morning. A storm was
due. It had been much too hot for three days in a row.

"Well, maybe it will just be a little mist," Coupeau said several
times, standing at the door and anxiously studying the sky. "Now we
have to wait only for my sister. We'll start as soon as she arrives."

Madame Lorilleux was late. Madame Lerat had stopped by so they could
come together, but found her only beginning to get dressed. The two
sisters had argued. The widow whispered in her brother's ear, "I left
her flat! She's in a dreadful mood. You'll see."

And the wedding party had to wait another quarter of an hour, walking
about the wineshop, elbowed and jostled in the midst of the men who
entered to drink a glass of wine at the bar. Now and again Boche, or
Madame Fauconnier, or Bibi-the-Smoker left the others and went to the
edge of the pavement, looking up at the sky. The storm was not passing
over at all; a darkness was coming on and puffs of wind, sweeping
along the ground, raised little clouds of white dust. At the first
clap of thunder, Mademoiselle Remanjou made the sign of the cross. All
the glances were anxiously directed to the clock over the looking-
glass; it was twenty minutes to two.

"Here it goes!" cried Coupeau. "It's the angels who're weeping."

A gush of rain swept the pavement, along which some women flew,
holding down their skirts with both hands. And it was in the midst of
this first shower that Madame Lorilleux at length arrived, furious and
out of breath, and struggling on the threshold with her umbrella that
would not close.

"Did any one ever see such a thing?" she exclaimed. "It caught me just
at the door. I felt inclined to go upstairs again and take my things
off. I should have been wise had I done so. Ah! it's a pretty wedding!
I said how it would be. I wanted to put it off till next Saturday; and
it rains because they wouldn't listen to me! So much the better, so
much the better! I wish the sky would burst!"

Coupeau tried to pacify her without success. He wouldn't have to pay
for her dress if it was spoilt! She had on a black silk dress in which
she was nearly choking, the bodice, too tight fitting, was almost
bursting the button-holes, and was cutting her across the shoulders;
while the skirt only allowed her to take very short steps in walking.
However, the ladies present were all staring at her, quite overcome by
her costume.

She appeared not to notice Gervaise, who was sitting beside mother
Coupeau. She asked her husband for his handkerchief. Then she went
into a corner and very carefully wiped off the raindrops that had
fallen on her silk dress.

The shower had abruptly ceased. The darkness increased, it was almost
like night--a livid night rent at times by large flashes of lightning.
Bibi-the-Smoker said laughingly that it would certainly rain priests.
Then the storm burst forth with extreme violence. For half an hour the
rain came down in bucketsful, and the thunder rumbled unceasingly. The
men standing up before the door contemplated the grey veil of the
downpour, the swollen gutters, the splashes of water caused by the
rain beating into the puddles. The women, feeling frightened, had sat
down again, holding their hands before their eyes. They no longer
conversed, they were too upset. A jest Boche made about the thunder,
saying that St. Peter was sneezing up there, failed to raise a smile.
But, when the thunder-claps became less frequent and gradually died
away in the distance, the wedding guests began to get impatient,
enraged against the storm, cursing and shaking their fists at the
clouds. A fine and interminable rain now poured down from the sky
which had become an ashy grey.

"It's past two o'clock," cried Madame Lorilleux. "We can't stop here
for ever."

Mademoiselle Remanjou, having suggested going into the country all the
same, even though they went no farther than the moat of the
fortifications, the others scouted the idea: the roads would be in a
nice state, one would not even be able to sit down on the grass;
besides, it did not seem to be all over yet, there might perhaps be
another downpour. Coupeau, who had been watching a workman, completely
soaked, yet quietly walking along in the rain, murmured:

"If that animal My-Boots is waiting for us on the Route de Saint-
Denis, he won't catch a sunstroke."

That made some of them laugh; but the general ill-humor increased. It
was becoming ludicrous. They must decide on something unless they
planned to sit there, staring at each other, until time for dinner. So
for the next quarter of an hour, while the persistent rain continued,
they tried to think of what to do. Bibi-the-Smoker suggested that they
play cards. Boche slyly suggesting a most amusing game, the game of
true confessions. Madame Gaudron thought of going to eat onion tarts
on the Chaussee Clignancourt. Madame Lerat wanted to hear some
stories. Gaudron said he wasn't a bit put out and thought they were
quite well off where they were, out of the downpour. He suggested
sitting down to dinner immediately.

There was a discussion after each proposal. Some said that this would
put everybody to sleep or that that would make people think they were
stupid. Lorilleux had to get his word in. He finally suggested a walk
along the outer Boulevards to Pere Lachaise cemetery. They could visit
the tomb of Heloise and Abelard. Madame Lorilleux exploded, no longer
able to control herself. She was leaving, she was. Were they trying to
make fun of her? She got all dressed up and came out in the rain. And
for what? To be wasting time in a wineshop. No, she had had enough of
this wedding party. She'd rather be in her own home. Coupeau and
Lorilleux had to get between her and the door to keep her from
leaving. She kept telling them, "Get out of my way! I am leaving, I
tell you!"

Lorilleux finally succeeded in calming her down. Coupeau went over to
Gervaise, who had been sitting quietly in a corner with mother Coupeau
and Madame Fauconnier.

"You haven't suggested anything," he said to her.

"Oh! Whatever they want," she replied, laughing. "I don't mind. We can
go out or stay here."

She seemed aglow with contentment. She had spoken to each guest as
they arrived. She spoke sensibly, in her soft voice, not getting into
any disagreements. During the downpour, she had sat with her eyes wide
open, watching the lightning as though she could see the future in the
sudden flashes.

Monsieur Madinier had up to this time not proposed anything. He was
leaning against the bar, with the tails of his dress coat thrust
apart, while he fully maintained the important air of an employer. He
kept on expectorating, and rolled his big eyes about.

"/Mon Dieu/!" said he, "we might go to the Museum."

And he stroked his chin, as he blinkingly consulted the other members
of the party.

"There are antiquities, pictures, paintings, a whole heap of things.
It is very instructive. Perhaps you have never been there. Oh! it is
quite worth seeing at least once in a while."

They looked at each other interrogatively. No, Gervaise had never
been; Madame Fauconnier neither, nor Boche, nor the others. Coupeau
thought he had been one Sunday, but he was not sure. They hesitated,
however, when Madame Lorilleux, greatly impressed by Monsieur
Madinier's importance, thought the suggestion a very worthy and
respectable one. As they were wasting the day, and were all dressed
up, they might as well go somewhere for their own instruction.
Everyone approved. Then, as it still rained a little, they borrowed
some umbrellas from the proprietor of the wineshop, old blue, green,
and brown umbrellas, forgotten by different customers, and started off
to the Museum.

The wedding party turned to the right, and descended into Paris along
the Faubourg Saint-Denis. Coupeau and Gervaise again took the lead,
almost running and keeping a good distance in front of the others.
Monsieur Madinier now gave his arm to Madame Lorilleux, mother Coupeau
having remained behind in the wineshop on account of her old legs.
Then came Lorilleux and Madame Lerat, Boche and Madame Fauconnier,
Bibi-the-Smoker and Mademoiselle Remanjou, and finally the two
Gaudrons. They were twelve and made a pretty long procession on the
pavement.

"I swear to you, we had nothing to do with it," Madame Lorilleux
explained to Monsieur Madinier. "We don't even know how they met, or,
we know only too well, but that's not for us to discuss. My husband
even had to buy the wedding ring. We were scarcely out of bed this
morning when he had to lend them ten francs. And, not a member of her
family at her wedding, what kind of bride is that? She says she has a
sister in Paris who works for a pork butcher. Why didn't she invite
her?" She stopped to point at Gervaise, who was limping awkwardly
because of the slope of the pavement. "Just look at her. Clump-clump."

"Clump-clump" ran through the wedding procession. Lorilleux laughed
under his breath, and said they ought to call her that, but Madame
Fauconnier stood up for Gervaise. They shouldn't make fun of her; she
was neat as a pin and did a good job when there was washing to be
done.

When the wedding procession came out of the Faubourg Saint-Denis, they
had to cross the boulevard. The street had been transformed into a
morass of sticky mud by the storm. It had started to pour again and
they had opened the assorted umbrellas. The women picked their way
carefully through the mud, holding their skirts high as the men held
the sorry-looking umbrellas over their heads. The procession stretched
out the width of the street.

"It's a masquerade!" yelled two street urchins.

People turned to stare. These couples parading across the boulevard
added a splash of vivid color against the damp background. It was a
parade of a strange medley of styles showing fancy used clothing such
as constitute the luxury of the poor. The gentlemen's hats caused the
most merriment, old hats preserved for years in dark and dusty
cupboards, in a variety of comical forms: tall ones, flattened ones,
sharply peaked ones, hats with extraordinary brims, curled back or
flat, too narrow or too wide. Then at the very end, Madame Gaudron
came along with her bright dress over her bulging belly and caused the
smiles of the audience to grow even wider. The procession made no
effort to hasten its progress. They were, in fact, rather pleased to
attract so much attention and admiration.

"Look! Here comes the bride!" one of the urchins shouted, pointing to
Madame Gaudron. "Oh! Isn't it too bad! She must have swallowed
something!"

The entire wedding procession burst into laughter. Bibi-the-Smoker
turned around and laughed. Madame Gaudron laughed the most of all. She
wasn't ashamed as she thought more than one of the women watching had
looked at her with envy.

They turned into the Rue de Clery. Then they took the Rue du Mail. On
reaching the Place des Victoires, there was a halt. The bride's left
shoe lace had come undone, and as she tied it up again at the foot of
the statue of Louis XIV., the couples pressed behind her waiting, and
joking about the bit of calf of her leg that she displayed. At length,
after passing down the Rue Croix-des-Petits-Champs, they reached the
Louvre.

Monsieur Madinier politely asked to be their cicerone. It was a big
place, and they might lose themselves; besides, he knew the best
parts, because he had often come there with an artist, a very
intelligent fellow from whom a large dealer bought designs to put on
his cardboard boxes. Down below, when the wedding party entered the
Assyrian Museum, a slight shiver passed through it. The deuce! It was
not at all warm there; the hall would have made a capital cellar. And
the couples slowly advanced, their chins raised, their eyes blinking,
between the gigantic stone figures, the black marble gods, dumb in
their hieratic rigidity, and the monstrous beasts, half cats and half
women, with death-like faces, attenuated noses, and swollen lips. They
thought all these things very ugly. The stone carvings of the present
day were a great deal better. An inscription in Phoenician characters
amazed them. No one could possibly have ever read that scrawl. But
Monsieur Madinier, already up on the first landing with Madame
Lorilleux, called to them, shouting beneath the vaulted ceiling:

"Come along! They're nothing, all those things! The things to see are
on the first floor!"

The severe barrenness of the staircase made them very grave. An
attendant, superbly attired in a red waistcoat and a coat trimmed with
gold lace, who seemed to be awaiting them on the landing, increased
their emotion. It was with great respect, and treading as softly as
possible, that they entered the French Gallery.

Then, without stopping, their eyes occupied with the gilding of the
frames, they followed the string of little rooms, glancing at the
passing pictures too numerous to be seen properly. It would have
required an hour before each, if they had wanted to understand it.
What a number of pictures! There was no end to them. They must be
worth a mint of money. Right at the end, Monsieur Madinier suddenly
ordered a halt opposite the "Raft of the Medusa" and he explained the
subject to them. All deeply impressed and motionless, they uttered not
a word. When they started off again, Boche expressed the general
feeling, saying it was marvellous.

In the Apollo Gallery, the inlaid flooring especially astonished the
party--a shining floor, as clear as a mirror, and which reflected the
legs of the seats. Mademoiselle Remanjou kept her eyes closed, because
she could not help thinking that she was walking on water. They called
to Madame Gaudron to be careful how she trod on account of her
condition. Monsieur Madinier wanted to show them the gilding and
paintings of the ceiling; but it nearly broke their necks to look up
above, and they could distinguish nothing. Then, before entering the
Square Salon, he pointed to a window, saying:

"That's the balcony from which Charles IX. fired on the people."

He looked back to make sure the party was following. In the middle of
the Salon Carre, he held up his hand. "There are only masterpieces
here," he said, in a subdued voice, as though in church. They went all
around the room. Gervaise wanted to know about "The Wedding at Cana."
Coupeau paused to stare at the "Mona Lisa," saying that she reminded
him of one of his aunts. Boche and Bibi-the-Smoker snickered at the
nudes, pointing them out to each other and winking. The Gaudrons
looked at the "Virgin" of Murillo, he with his mouth open, she with
her hands folded on her belly.

When they had been all around the Salon, Monsieur Madinier wished them
to go round it again, it was so worth while. He was very attentive to
Madame Lorilleux, because of her silk dress; and each time that she
questioned him he answered her gravely, with great assurance. She was
curious about "Titian's Mistress" because the yellow hair resembled
her own. He told her it was "La Belle Ferronniere," a mistress of
Henry IV. about whom there had been a play at the Ambigu.

Then the wedding party invaded the long gallery occupied by the
Italian and Flemish schools. More paintings, always paintings, saints,
men and women, with faces which some of them could understand,
landscapes that were all black, animals turned yellow, a medley of
people and things, the great mixture of the colors of which was
beginning to give them all violent headaches. Monsieur Madinier no
longer talked as he slowly headed the procession, which followed him
in good order, with stretched necks and upcast eyes. Centuries of art
passed before their bewildered ignorance, the fine sharpness of the
early masters, the splendors of the Venetians, the vigorous life,
beautiful with light, of the Dutch painters. But what interested them
most were the artists who were copying, with their easels planted
amongst the people, painting away unrestrainedly, an old lady, mounted
on a pair of high steps, working a big brush over the delicate sky of
an immense painting, struck them as something most peculiar.

Slowly the word must have gone around that a wedding party was
visiting the Louvre. Several painters came over with big smiles. Some
visitors were so curious that they went to sit on benches ahead of the
group in order to be comfortable while they watched them pass in
review. Museum guards bit back comments. The wedding party was now
quite weary and beginning to drag their feet.

Monsieur Madinier was reserving himself to give more effect to a
surprise that he had in store. He went straight to the "Kermesse" of
Rubens; but still he said nothing. He contented himself with directing
the others' attention to the picture by a sprightly glance. The ladies
uttered faint cries the moment they brought their noses close to the
painting. Then, blushing deeply they turned away their heads. The men
though kept them there, cracking jokes, and seeking for the coarser
details.

"Just look!" exclaimed Boche, "it's worth the money. There's one
spewing, and another, he's watering the dandelions; and that one--oh!
that one. Ah, well! They're a nice clean lot, they are!"

"Let us be off," said Monsieur Madinier, delighted with his success.
"There is nothing more to see here."

They retraced their steps, passing again through the Salon Carre and
the Apollo Gallery. Madame Lerat and Mademoiselle Remanjou complained,
declaring that their legs could scarcely bear them. But the cardboard
box manufacturer wanted to show Lorilleux the old jewelry. It was
close by in a little room which he could find with his eyes shut.
However, he made a mistake and led the wedding party astray through
seven or eight cold, deserted rooms, only ornamented with severe
looking-glass cases, containing numberless broken pots and hideous
little figures.

While looking for an exit they stumbled into the collection of
drawings. It was immense. Through room after room they saw nothing
interesting, just scribblings on paper that filled all the cases and
covered the walls. They thought there was no end to these drawings.

Monsieur Madinier, losing his head, not willing to admit that he did
not know his way, ascended a flight of stairs, making the wedding
party mount to the next floor. This time they traversed the Naval
Museum, among models of instruments and cannons, plans in relief, and
vessels as tiny as playthings. After going a long way, and walking for
a quarter of an hour, the party came upon another staircase; and,
having descended this, found itself once more surrounded by the
drawings. Then despair took possession of them as they wandered at
random through long halls, following Monsieur Madinier, who was
furious and mopping the sweat from his forehead. He accused the
government of having moved the doors around. Museum guards and
visitors looked on with astonishment as the procession, still in a
column of couples, passed by. They passed again through the Salon
Carre, the French Gallery and then along the cases where minor Eastern
divinities slumbered peacefully. It seemed they would never find their
way out. They were getting tired and made a lot of noise.

"Closing time! Closing time!" called out the attendants, in a loud
tone of voice.

And the wedding party was nearly locked in. An attendant was obliged
to place himself at the head of it, and conduct it to a door. Then in
the courtyard of the Louvre, when it had recovered its umbrellas from
the cloakroom, it breathed again. Monsieur Madinier regained his
assurance. He had made a mistake in not turning to the left, now he
recollected that the jewelry was to the left. The whole party
pretended to be very pleased at having seen all they had.

Four o'clock was striking. There were still two hours to be employed
before the dinner time, so it was decided they should take a stroll,
just to occupy the interval. The ladies, who were very tired, would
have preferred to sit down; but, as no one offered any refreshments,
they started off, following the line of quays. There they encountered
another shower and so sharp a one that in spite of the umbrellas, the
ladies' dresses began to get wet. Madame Lorilleux, her heart sinking
within her each time a drop fell upon her black silk, proposed that
they should shelter themselves under the Pont-Royal; besides if the
others did not accompany her, she threatened to go all by herself. And
the procession marched under one of the arches of the bridge. They
were very comfortable there. It was, most decidedly a capital idea!
The ladies, spreading their handkerchiefs over the paving-stones, sat
down with their knees wide apart, and pulled out the blades of grass
that grew between the stones with both hands, whilst they watched the
dark flowing water as though they were in the country. The men amused
themselves with calling out very loud, so as to awaken the echoes of
the arch. Boche and Bibi-the-Smoker shouted insults into the air at
the top of their voices, one after the other. They laughed
uproariously when the echo threw the insults back at them. When their
throats were hoarse from shouting, they made a game of skipping flat
stones on the surface of the Seine.

The shower had ceased but the whole party felt so comfortable that no
one thought of moving away. The Seine was flowing by, an oily sheet
carrying bottle corks, vegetable peelings, and other refuse that
sometimes collected in temporary whirlpools moving along with the
turbulent water. Endless traffic rumbled on the bridge overhead, the
noisy bustle of Paris, of which they could glimpse only the rooftops
to the left and right, as though they were in the bottom of a deep
pit.

Mademoiselle Remanjou sighed; if the leaves had been out this would
have reminded her of a bend of the Marne where she used to go with a
young man. It still made her cry to think of him.

At last, Monsieur Madinier gave the signal for departure. They passed
through the Tuileries gardens, in the midst of a little community of
children, whose hoops and balls upset the good order of the couples.
Then as the wedding party on arriving at the Place Vendome looked up
at the column, Monsieur Madinier gallantly offered to treat the ladies
to a view from the top. His suggestion was considered extremely
amusing. Yes, yes, they would go up; it would give them something to
laugh about for a long time. Besides, it would be full of interest for
those persons who had never been higher than a cow pasture.

"Do you think Clump-clump will venture inside there with her leg all
out of place?" murmured Madame Lorilleux.

"I'll go up with pleasure," said Madame Lerat, "but I won't have any
men walking behind me."

And the whole party ascended. In the narrow space afforded by the
spiral staircase, the twelve persons crawled up one after the other,
stumbling against the worn steps, and clinging to the walls. Then,
when the obscurity became complete, they almost split their sides with
laughing. The ladies screamed when the gentlemen pinched their legs.
But they were weren't stupid enough to say anything! The proper plan
is to think that it is the mice nibbling at them. It wasn't very
serious; the men knew when to stop.

Boche thought of a joke and everyone took it up. They called down to
Madame Gaudron to ask her if she could squeeze her belly through. Just
think! If she should get stuck there, she would completely block the
passage, and how would they ever get out? They laughed so at the jokes
about her belly that the column itself vibrated. Boche was now quite
carried away and declared that they were growing old climbing up this
chimney pipe. Was it ever coming to an end, or did it go right up to
heaven? He tried to frighten the ladies by telling them the structure
was shaking.

Coupeau, meanwhile, said nothing. He was behind Gervaise, with his arm
around her waist, and felt that she was everything perfect to him.
When they suddenly emerged again into the daylight, he was just in the
act of kissing her on the cheek.

"Well! You're a nice couple; you don't stand on ceremony," said Madame
Lorilleux with a scandalized air.

Bibi-the-Smoker pretended to be furious. He muttered between his
teeth. "You made such a noise together! I wasn't even able to count
the steps."

But Monsieur Madinier was already up on the platform, pointing out the
different monuments. Neither Madame Fauconnier nor Mademoiselle
Remanjou would on any consideration leave the staircase. The thought
of the pavement below made their blood curdle, and they contented
themselves with glancing out of the little door. Madame Lerat, who was
bolder, went round the narrow terrace, keeping close to the bronze
dome; but, /mon Dieu/, it gave one a rude emotion to think that one
only had to slip off. The men were a little paler than usual as they
stared down at the square below. You would think you were up in mid-
air, detached from everything. No, it wasn't fun, it froze your very
insides.

Monsieur Madinier told them to raise their eyes and look straight into
the distance to avoid feeling dizzy. He went on pointing out the
Invalides, the Pantheon, Notre Dame and the Montmartre hill. Madame
Lorilleux asked if they could see the place where they were to have
dinner, the Silver Windmill on the Boulevard de la Chapelle. For ten
minutes they tried to see it, even arguing about it. Everyone had
their own idea where it was.

"It wasn't worth while coming up here to bite each other's noses off,"
said Boche, angrily as he turned to descend the staircase.

The wedding party went down, unspeaking and sulky, awakening no other
sound beyond that of shoes clanking on the stone steps. When it
reached the bottom, Monsieur Madinier wished to pay; but Coupeau would
not permit him, and hastened to place twenty-four sous into the
keeper's hand, two sous for each person. So they returned by the
Boulevards and the Faubourg du Poissonniers. Coupeau, however,
considered that their outing could not end like that. He bundled them
all into a wineshop where they took some vermouth.

The repast was ordered for six o'clock. At the Silver Windmill, they
had been waiting for the wedding party for a good twenty minutes.
Madame Boche, who had got a lady living in the same house to attend to
her duties for the evening, was conversing with mother Coupeau in the
first floor room, in front of the table, which was all laid out; and
the two youngsters, Claude and Etienne, whom she had brought with her,
were playing about beneath the table and amongst the chairs. When
Gervaise, on entering caught sight of the little ones, whom she had
not seen all the day, she took them on her knees, and caressed and
kissed them.

"Have they been good?" asked she of Madame Boche. "I hope they haven't
worried you too much."

And as the latter related the things the little rascals had done
during the afternoon, and which would make one die with laughing, the
mother again took them up and pressed them to her breast, seized with
an overpowering outburst of maternal affection.

"It's not very pleasant for Coupeau, all the same," Madame Lorilleux
was saying to the other ladies, at the end of the room.

Gervaise had kept her smiling peacefulness from the morning, but after
the long walk she appeared almost sad at times as she watched her
husband and the Lorilleuxs in a thoughtful way. She had the feeling
that Coupeau was a little afraid of his sister. The evening before, he
had been talking big, swearing he would put them in their places if
they didn't behave. However, she could see that in their presence he
was hanging on their words, worrying when he thought they might be
displeased. This gave the young bride some cause for worry about the
future.

They were now only waiting for My-Boots, who had not yet put in an
appearance.

"Oh! blow him!" cried Coupeau, "let's begin. You'll see, he'll soon
turn up, he's got a hollow nose, he can scent the grub from afar. I
say he must be amusing himself, if he's still standing like a post on
the Route de Saint-Denis!"

Then the wedding party, feeling very lively, sat down making a great
noise with the chairs. Gervaise was between Lorilleux and Monsieur
Madinier, and Coupeau between Madame Fauconnier and Madame Lorilleux.
The other guests seated themselves where they liked, because it always
ended with jealousies and quarrels, when one settled their places for
them. Boche glided to a seat beside Madame Lerat. Bibi-the-Smoker had
for neighbors Mademoiselle Remanjou and Madame Gaudron. As for Madame
Boche and mother Coupeau, they were right at the end of the table,
looking after the children, cutting up their meat and giving them
something to drink, but not much wine.

"Does nobody say grace?" asked Boche, whilst the ladies arranged their
skirts under the table-cloth, so as not to get them stained.

But Madame Lorilleux paid no attention to such pleasantries. The
vermicelli soup, which was nearly cold, was gulped down very quickly,
their lips making a hissing noise against the spoons. Two waiters
served at table, dressed in little greasy jackets and not over-clean
white aprons. By the four open windows overlooking the acacias of the
courtyard there entered the clear light of the close of a stormy day,
with the atmosphere purified thereby though without sufficiently
cooling it. The light reflected from the humid corner of trees tinged
the haze-filled room with green and made leaf shadows dance along the
table-cloth, from which came a vague aroma of dampness and mildew.

Two large mirrors, one at each end of the room, seemed to stretch out
the table. The heavy crockery with which it was set was beginning to
turn yellow and the cutlery was scratched and grimed with grease. Each
time a waiter came through the swinging doors from the kitchen a whiff
of odorous burnt lard came with him.

"Don't all talk at once," said Boche, as everyone remained silent with
his nose in his plate.

They were drinking the first glass of wine as their eyes followed two
meat pies which the waiters were handing round when My-Boots entered
the room.

"Well, you're a scurvy lot, you people!" said he. "I've been wearing
my pins out for three hours waiting on that road, and a gendarme even
came and asked me for my papers. It isn't right to play such dirty
tricks on a friend! You might at least have sent me word by a
commissionaire. Ah! no, you know, joking apart, it's too bad. And with
all that, it rained so hard that I got my pickets full of water. Honor
bright, you might still catch enough fish in 'em for a meal."

The others wriggled with laughter. That animal My-Boots was just a bit
on; he had certainly already stowed away his two quarts of wine,
merely to prevent his being bothered by all that frog's liquor with
which the storm had deluged his limbs.

"Hallo! Count Leg-of-Mutton!" said Coupeau, "just go and sit yourself
there, beside Madame Gaudron. You see you were expected."

Oh, he did not mind, he would soon catch the others up; and he asked
for three helpings of soup, platefuls of vermicelli, in which he
soaked enormous slices of bread. Then, when they had attacked the meat
pies, he became the profound admiration of everyone at the table. How
he stowed it away! The bewildered waiters helped each other to pass
him bread, thin slices which he swallowed at a mouthful. He ended by
losing his temper; he insisted on having a loaf placed on the table
beside him. The landlord, very anxious, came for a moment and looked
in at the door. The party, which was expecting him, again wriggled
with laughter. It seemed to upset the caterer. What a rum card he was
that My-Boots! One day he had eaten a dozen hard-boiled eggs and drank
a dozen glasses of wine while the clock was striking twelve! There are
not many who can do that. And Mademoiselle Remanjou, deeply moved,
watched My-Boots chew whilst Monsieur Madinier, seeking for a word to
express his almost respectful astonishment, declared that such a
capacity was extraordinary.

There was a brief silence. A waiter had just placed on the table a
ragout of rabbits in a vast dish as deep as a salad-bowl. Coupeau, who
liked fun, started another joke.

"I say, waiter, that rabbit's from the housetops. It still mews."

And in fact, a faint mew perfectly imitated seemed to issue from the
dish. It was Coupeau who did that with his throat, without opening his
lips; a talent which at all parties, met with decided success, so much
so that he never ordered a dinner abroad without having a rabbit
ragout. After that he purred. The ladies pressed their napkins to
their mouths to try and stop their laughter. Madame Fauconnier asked
for a head, she only liked that part. Mademoiselle Remanjou had a
weakness for the slices of bacon. And as Boche said he preferred the
little onions when they were nicely broiled, Madame Lerat screwed up
her lips, and murmured:

"I can understand that."

She was a dried up stick, living the cloistered life of a hard-working
woman imprisoned within her daily routine, who had never had a man
stick his nose into her room since the death of her husband; yet she
had an obsession with double meanings and indecent allusions that were
sometimes so far off the mark that only she understood them.

As Boche leaned toward her and, in a whisper, asked for an
explanation, she resumed:

"Little onions, why of course. That's quite enough, I think."

The general conversation was becoming grave. Each one was talking of
his trade. Monsieur Madinier raved about the cardboard business. There
were some real artists. For an example, he mentioned Christmas gift
boxes, of which he'd seen samples that were marvels of splendor.

Lorilleux sneered at this; he was extremely vain because of working
with gold, feeling that it gave a sort of sheen to his fingers and his
whole personality. "In olden times jewelers wore swords like
gentlemen." He often cited the case of Bernard Palissy, even though he
really knew nothing about him.

Coupeau told of a masterpiece of a weather vane made by one of his
fellow workers which included a Greek column, a sheaf of wheat, a
basket of fruit, and a flag, all beautifully worked out of nothing but
strips of zinc shaped and soldered together.

Madame Lerat showed Bibi-the-Smoker how to make a rose by rolling the
handle of her knife between her bony fingers.

All the while, their voices had been rising louder and louder,
competing for attention. Shrill comments by Madame Fauconnier were
heard. She complained about the girls who worked for her, especially a
little apprentice who was nothing but a tart and had badly scorched
some sheets the evening before.

"You may talk," Lorilleux cried, banging his fist down on the table,
"but gold is gold."

And, in the midst of the silence caused by the statement of this fact,
the only sound heard was Mademoiselle Remanjou's shrill voice
continuing:

"Then I turn up the skirt and stitch it inside. I stick a pin in the
head to keep the cap on, and that's all; and they are sold for
thirteen sous a piece."

She was explaining how she dressed her dolls to My-Boots, whose jaws
were working slowly like grindstones. He did not listen, though he
kept nodding his head, but looked after the waiters to prevent them
removing any of the dishes he had not cleaned out. They had now
finished a veal stew with green beans. The roast was brought in, two
scrawny chickens resting on a bed of water cress which was limp from
the warming oven.

Outside, only the higher branches of the acacias were touched by the
setting sun. Inside, the greenish reflected light was thickened by
wisps of steam rising from the table, now messy with spilled wine and
gravy and the debris of the dinner. Along the wall were dirty dishes
and empty bottles which the waiters had piled there like a heap of
refuse. It was so hot that the men took off their jackets and
continued eating in their shirt sleeves.

"Madame Boche, please don't spread their butter so thick," said
Gervaise, who spoke but little, and who was watching Claude and
Etienne from a distance.

She got up from her seat, and went and talked for a minute while
standing behind the little ones' chairs. Children did not reason; they
would eat all day long without refusing a single thing; and then she
herself helped them to some chicken, a little of the breast. But
mother Coupeau said they might, just for once in a while, risk an
attack of indigestion. Madame Boche, in a low voice accused Boche of
caressing Madame Lerat's knees. Oh, he was a sly one, but he was
getting a little too gay. She had certainly seen his hand disappear.
If he did it again, drat him! She wouldn't hesitate throwing a pitcher
of water over his head.

In the partial silence, Monsieur Madinier was talking politics. "Their
law of May 31, is an abominable one. Now you must reside in a place
for two years. Three millions of citizens are struck off the voting
lists. I've been told that Bonaparte is, in reality, very much annoyed
for he loves the people; he has given them proofs."

He was a republican; but he admired the prince on account of his
uncle, a man the like of whom would never be seen again. Bibi-the-
Smoker flew into a passion. He had worked at the Elysee; he had seen
Bonaparte just as he saw My-Boots in front of him over there. Well
that muff of a president was just like a jackass, that was all! It was
said that he was going to travel about in the direction of Lyons; it
would be a precious good riddance of bad rubbish if he fell into some
hole and broke his neck. But, as the discussion was becoming too
heated, Coupeau had to interfere.

"Ah, well! How simple you all are to quarrel about politics. Politics
are all humbug! Do such things exist for us? Let there be any one as
king, it won't prevent me earning my five francs a day, and eating and
sleeping; isn't that so? No, it's too stupid to argue about!"

Lorilleux shook his head. He was born on the same day as the Count of
Chambord, the 29th of September, 1820. He was greatly struck with this
coincidence, indulging himself in a vague dream, in which he
established a connection between the king's return to France and his
own private fortunes. He never said exactly what he was expecting, but
he led people to suppose that when that time arrived something
extraordinarily agreeable would happen to him. So whenever he had a
wish too great to be gratified, he would put it off to another time,
when the king came back.

"Besides," observed he, "I saw the Count de Chambord one evening."

Every face was turned towards him.

"It's quite true. A stout man, in an overcoat, and with a good-natured
air. I was at Pequignot's, one of my friends who deals in furniture in
the Grand Rue de la Chapelle. The Count of Chambord had forgotten his
umbrella there the day before; so he came in, and just simply said,
like this: 'Will you please return me my umbrella?' Well, yes, it was
him; Pequignot gave me his word of honor it was."

Not one of the guests suggested the smallest doubt. They had now
arrived at dessert and the waiters were clearing the table with much
clattering of dishes. Madame Lorilleux, who up to then had been very
genteel, very much the lady, suddenly let fly with a curse. One of the
waiters had spilled something wet down her neck while removing a dish.
This time her silk dress would be stained for sure. Monsieur Madinier
had to examine her back, but he swore there was nothing to be seen.

Two platters of cheese, two dishes of fruit, and a floating island
pudding of frosted eggs in a deep salad-bowl had now been placed along
the middle of the table. The pudding caused a moment of respectful
attention even though the overdone egg whites had flattened on the
yellow custard. It was unexpected and seemed very fancy.

My-Boots was still eating. He had asked for another loaf. He finished
what there was of the cheese; and, as there was some cream left, he
had the salad-bowl passed to him, into which he sliced some large
pieces of bread as though for a soup.

"The gentleman is really remarkable," said Monsieur Madinier, again
giving way to his admiration.

Then the men rose to get their pipes. They stood for a moment behind
My-Boots, patting him on the back, and asking him if he was feeling
better. Bibi-the-Smoker lifted him up in his chair; but /tonnerre de
Dieu!/ the animal had doubled in weight. Coupeau joked that My-Boots
was only getting started, that now he was going to settle down and
really eat for the rest of the night. The waiters were startled and
quickly vanished from sight.

Boche, who had gone downstairs for a moment, came up to report the
proprietor's reaction. He was standing behind his bar, pale as death.
His wife, dreadfully upset, was wondering if any bakeries were still
open. Even the cat seemed deep in despair. This was as funny as could
be, really worth the price of the dinner. It was impossible to have a
proper dinner party without My-Boots, the bottomless pit. The other
men eyed him with a brooding jealousy as they puffed on their pipes.
Indeed, to be able to eat so much, you had to be very solidly built!

"I wouldn't care to be obliged to support you," said Madame Gaudron.
"Ah, no; you may take my word for that!"

"I say, little mother, no jokes," replied My-Boots, casting a side
glance at his neighbor's rotund figure. "You've swallowed more than I
have."

The others applauded, shouting "Bravo!"--it was well answered. It was
now pitch dark outside, three gas-jets were flaring in the room,
diffusing dim rays in the midst of the tobacco-smoke. The waiters,
after serving the coffee and the brandy, had removed the last piles of
dirty plates. Down below, beneath the three acacias, dancing had
commenced, a cornet-a-piston and two fiddles playing very loud, and
mingling in the warm night air with the rather hoarse laughter of
women.

"We must have a punch!" cried My-Boots; "two quarts of brandy, lots of
lemon, and a little sugar."

But Coupeau, seeing the anxious look on Gervaise's face in front of
him, got up from the table, declaring that there should be no more
drink. They had emptied twenty-five quarts, a quart and a half to each
person, counting the children as grown-up people; that was already too
much. They had had a feed together in good fellowship, and without
ceremony, because they esteemed each other, and wished to celebrate
the event of the day amongst themselves. Everything had been very
nice; they had had lots of fun. It wouldn't do to get cockeyed drunk
now, out of respect to the ladies. That was all he had to say, they
had come together to toast a marriage and they had done so.

Coupeau delivered the little speech with convincing sincerity and
punctuated each phrase by placing his hand on his heart. He won whole-
hearted approval from Lorilleux and Monsieur Madinier; but the other
four men, especially My-Boots, were already well lit and sneered. They
declared in hoarse drunken voices that they were thirsty and wanted
drinks.

"Those who're thirsty are thirsty, and those who aren't thirsty aren't
thirsty," remarked My-Boots. "Therefore, we'll order the punch. No one
need take offence. The aristocrats can drink sugar-and-water."

And as the zinc-worker commenced another sermon, the other, who had
risen on his legs, gave himself a slap, exclaiming:

"Come, let's have no more of that, my boy! Waiter, two quarts of your
aged stuff!"

So Coupeau said very well, only they would settle for the dinner at
once. It would prevent any disputes. The well-behaved people did not
want to pay for the drunkards; and it just happened that My-Boots,
after searching in his pockets for a long time, could only produce
three francs and seven sous. Well, why had they made him wait all that
time on the Route de Saint-Denis? He could not let himself be drowned
and so he had broken into his five-franc piece. It was the fault of
the others, that was all! He ended by giving the three francs, keeping
the seven sous for the morrow's tobacco. Coupeau, who was furious,
would have knocked him over had not Gervaise, greatly frightened,
pulled him by his coat, and begged him to keep cool. He decided to
borrow the two francs of Lorilleux, who after refusing them, lent them
on the sly, for his wife would never have consented to his doing so.

Monsieur Madinier went round with a plate. The spinster and the ladies
who were alone--Madame Lerat, Madame Fauconnier, Mademoiselle Remanjou
--discreetly placed their five-franc pieces in it first. Then the
gentlemen went to the other end of the room, and made up the accounts.
They were fifteen; it amounted therefore to seventy-five francs. When
the seventy-five francs were in the plate, each man added five sous
for the waiters. It took a quarter of an hour of laborious
calculations before everything was settled to the general
satisfaction.

But when Monsieur Madinier, who wished to deal direct with the
landlord, had got him to step up, the whole party became lost in
astonishment on hearing him say with a smile that there was still
something due to him. There were some extras; and, as the word
"extras" was greeted with angry exclamations, he entered into details:
--Twenty-five quarts of wine, instead of twenty, the number agreed
upon beforehand; the frosted eggs, which he had added, as the dessert
was rather scanty; finally, a quarter of a bottle of rum, served with
the coffee, in case any one preferred rum. Then a formidable quarrel
ensued. Coupeau, who was appealed to, protested against everything; he
had never mentioned twenty quarts; as for the frosted eggs, they were
included in the dessert, so much the worse for the landlord if he
choose to add them without being asked to do so. There remained the
rum, a mere nothing, just a mode of increasing the bill by putting on
the table spirits that no one thought anything about.

"It was on the tray with the coffee," he cried; "therefore it goes
with the coffee. Go to the deuce! Take your money, and never again
will we set foot in your den!"

"It's six francs more," repeated the landlord. "Pay me my six francs;
and with all that I haven't counted the four loaves that gentleman
ate!"

The whole party, pressing forward, surrounded him with furious
gestures and a yelping of voices choking with rage. The women
especially threw aside all reserve, and refused to add another
centime. This was some wedding dinner! Mademoiselle Remanjou vowed she
would never again attend such a party. Madame Fauconnier declared she
had had a very disappointing meal; at home she could have had a
finger-licking dish for only two francs. Madame Gaudron bitterly
complained that she had been shoved down to the worst end of the table
next to My-Boots who had ignored her. These parties never turned out
well, one should be more careful whom one invites. Gervaise had taken
refuge with mother Coupeau near one of the windows, feeling shamed as
she realized that all these recriminations would fall back upon her.

Monsieur Madinier ended by going down with the landlord. One could
hear them arguing below. Then, when half an hour had gone by the
cardboard box manufacturer returned; he had settled the matter by
giving three francs. But the party continued annoyed and exasperated,
constantly returning to the question of the extras. And the uproar
increased from an act of vigor on Madame Boche's part. She had kept
an eye on Boche, and at length detected him squeezing Madame Lerat
round the waist in a corner. Then, with all her strength, she flung a
water pitcher, which smashed against the wall.

"One can easily see that your husband's a tailor, madame," said the
tall widow, with a curl of the lip, full of a double meaning. "He's a
petticoat specialist, even though I gave him some pretty hard kicks
under the table."

The harmony of the evening was altogether upset. Everyone became more
and more ill-tempered. Monsieur Madinier suggested some singing, but
Bibi-the-Smoker, who had a fine voice, had disappeared some time
before; and Mademoiselle Remanjou, who was leaning out of the window,
caught sight of him under the acacias, swinging round a big girl who
was bare-headed. The cornet-a-piston and two fiddles were playing "/Le
Marchand de Moutarde/." The party now began to break up. My-Boots and
the Gaudrons went down to the dance with Boche sneaking along after
them. The twirling couples could be seen from the windows. The night
was still as though exhausted from the heat of the day. A serious
conversation started between Lorilleux and Monsieur Madinier. The
ladies examined their dresses carefully to see if they had been
stained.

Madame Lerat's fringe looked as though it had been dipped in the
coffee. Madame Fauconnier's chintz dress was spotted with gravy.
Mother Coupeau's green shawl, fallen from off a chair, was discovered
in a corner, rolled up and trodden upon. But it was Madame Lorilleux
especially who became more ill-tempered still. She had a stain on the
back of her dress; it was useless for the others to declare that she
had not--she felt it. And, by twisting herself about in front of a
looking-glass, she ended by catching a glimpse of it.

"What did I say?" cried she. "It's gravy from the fowl. The waiter
shall pay for the dress. I will bring an action against him. Ah! this
is a fit ending to such a day. I should have done better to have
stayed in bed. To begin with, I'm off. I've had enough of their
wretched wedding!"

And she left the room in a rage, causing the staircase to shake
beneath her heavy footsteps. Lorilleux ran after her. But all she
would consent to was that she would wait five minutes on the pavement
outside, if he wanted them to go off together. She ought to have left
directly after the storm, as she wished to do. She would make Coupeau
sorry for that day. Coupeau was dismayed when he heard how angry she
was. Gervaise agreed to leave at once to avoid embarrassing him any
more.

There was a flurry of quick good-night kisses. Monsieur Madinier was
to escort mother Coupeau home. Madame Boche would take Claude and
Etienne with her for the bridal night. The children were sound asleep
on chairs, stuffed full from the dinner. Just as the bridal couple and
Lorilleux were about to go out the door, a quarrel broke out near the
dance floor between their group and another group. Boche and My-Boots
were kissing a lady and wouldn't give her up to her escorts, two
soldiers.

It was scarcely eleven o'clock. On the Boulevard de la Chapelle, and
in the entire neighborhood of the Goutte-d'Or, the fortnight's pay,
which fell due on that Saturday, produced an enormous drunken uproar.
Madame Lorilleux was waiting beneath a gas-lamp about twenty paces
from the Silver Windmill. She took her husband's arm, and walked on in
front without looking round, at such a rate, that Gervaise and Coupeau
got quite out of breath in trying to keep up with them. Now and again
they stepped off the pavement to leave room for some drunkard who had
fallen there. Lorilleux looked back, endeavoring to make things
pleasant.

"We will see you as far as your door," said he.

But Madame Lorilleux, raising her voice, thought it a funny thing to
spend one's wedding night in such a filthy hole as the Hotel Boncoeur.
Ought they not to have put their marriage off, and have saved a few
sous to buy some furniture, so as to have had a home of their own on
the first night? Ah! they would be comfortable, right up under the
roof, packed into a little closet, at ten francs a month, where there
was not even the slightest air.

"I've given notice, we're not going to use the room up at the top of
the house," timidly interposed Coupeau. "We are keeping Gervaise's
room, which is larger."

Madame Lorilleux forgot herself. She turned abruptly round.

"That's worse than all!" cried she. "You're going to sleep in Clump-
clump's room."

Gervaise became quite pale. This nickname, which she received full in
the face for the first time, fell on her like a blow. And she fully
understood it, too, her sister-in-law's exclamation: the Clump-clump's
room was the room in which she had lived for a month with Lantier,
where the shreds of her past life still hung about. Coupeau did not
understand this, but merely felt hurt at the harsh nickname.

"You do wrong to christen others," he replied angrily. "You don't know
perhaps, that in the neighborhood they call you Cow's-Tail, because of
your hair. There, that doesn't please you, does it? Why should we not
keep the room on the first floor? To-night the children won't sleep
there, and we shall be very comfortable."

Madame Lorilleux added nothing further, but retired into her dignity,
horribly annoyed at being called Cow's-Tail. To cheer up Gervaise,
Coupeau squeezed her arm softly. He even succeeded in making her smile
by whispering into her ear that they were setting up housekeeping with
the grand sum of seven sous, three big two-sou pieces and one little
sou, which he jingled in his pocket.

When they reached the Hotel Boncoeur, the two couples wished each
other good-night, with an angry air; and as Coupeau pushed the two
women into each other's arms, calling them a couple of ninnies, a
drunken fellow, who seemed to want to go to the right, suddenly
slipped to the left and came tumbling between them.

"Why, it's old Bazouge!" said Lorilleux. "He's had his fill to-day."

Gervaise, frightened, squeezed up against the door of the hotel. Old
Bazouge, an undertaker's helper of some fifty years of age, had his
black trousers all stained with mud, his black cape hooked on to his
shoulder, and his black feather hat knocked in by some tumble he had
taken.

"Don't be afraid, he's harmless," continued Lorilleux. "He's a
neighbor of ours--the third room in the passage before us. He would
find himself in a nice mess if his people were to see him like this!"

Old Bazouge, however, felt offended at the young woman's evident
terror.

"Well, what!" hiccoughed he, "we ain't going to eat any one. I'm as
good as another any day, my little woman. No doubt I've had a drop!
When work's plentiful one must grease the wheels. It's not you, nor
your friends, who would have carried down the stiff 'un of forty-seven
stone whom I and a pal brought from the fourth floor to the pavement,
and without smashing him too. I like jolly people."

But Gervaise retreated further into the doorway, seized with a longing
to cry, which spoilt her day of sober-minded joy. She no longer
thought of kissing her sister-in-law, she implored Coupeau to get rid
of the drunkard. Then Bazouge, as he stumbled about, made a gesture of
philosophical disdain.

"That won't prevent you passing though our hands, my little woman.
You'll perhaps be glad to do so, one of these days. Yes, I know some
women who'd be much obliged if we did carry them off."

And, as Lorilleux led him away, he turned around, and stuttered out a
last sentence, between two hiccoughs.

"When you're dead--listen to this--when you're dead, it's for a long,
long time."



                             CHAPTER IV.

Then followed four years of hard work. In the neighborhood, Gervaise
and Coupeau had the reputation of being a happy couple, living in
retirement without quarrels, and taking a short walk regularly every
Sunday in the direction of St. Ouen. The wife worked twelve hours a
day at Madame Fauconnier's, and still found means to keep their
lodging as clean and bright as a new coined sou and to prepare the
meals for all her little family, morning and evening. The husband
never got drunk, brought his wages home every fortnight, and smoked a
pipe at his window in the evening, to get a breath of fresh air before
going to bed. They were frequently alluded to on account of their
nice, pleasant ways; and as between them they earned close upon nine
francs a day, it was reckoned that they were able to put by a good
deal of money.

However, during their first months together they had to struggle hard
to get by. Their wedding had left them owing two hundred francs. Also,
they detested the Hotel Boncoeur as they didn't like the other
occupants. Their dream was to have a home of their own with their own
furniture. They were always figuring how much they would need and
decided three hundred and fifty francs at least, in order to be able
to buy little items that came up later.

They were in despair at ever being able to collect such a large sum
when a lucky chance came their way. An old gentleman at Plassans
offered to take the older boy, Claude, and send him to an academy down
there. The old man, who loved art, had previously been much impressed
by Claude's sketches. Claude had already begun to cost them quite a
bit. Now, with only Etienne to support, they were able to accumulate
the money in a little over seven months. One day they were finally
able to buy their own furniture from a second-hand dealer on Rue
Belhomme. Their hearts filled with happiness, they celebrated by
walking home along the exterior Boulevards.

They had purchased a bed, a night table, a chest of drawers with a
marble top, a wardrobe, a round table covered with oilcloth, and six
chairs. All were of dark mahogany. They also bought blankets, linen,
and kitchen utensils that were scarcely used. It meant settling down
and giving themselves a status in life as property owners, as persons
to be respected.

For two months past they had been busy seeking some new apartments. At
first they wanted above everything to hire these in the big house of
the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or. But there was not a single room to let
there; so that they had to relinquish their old dream. To tell the
truth, Gervaise was rather glad in her heart; the neighborhood of the
Lorilleux almost door to door, frightened her immensely. Then, they
looked about elsewhere. Coupeau, very properly did not wish to be far
from Madame Fauconnier's so that Gervaise could easily run home at any
hour of the day. And at length they met with exactly what suited them,
a large room with a small closet and a kitchen, in the Rue Neuve de la
Goutte-d'Or, almost opposite the laundress's. This was in a small two-
story building with a very steep staircase. There were two apartments
on the second floor, one to the left, the other to the right, The
ground floor was occupied by a man who rented out carriages, which
filled the sheds in the large stable yard by the street.

Gervaise was delighted with this as it made her feel she was back in a
country town. With no close neighbors there would be no gossip to
worry about in this little corner. It reminded her of a small lane
outside the ramparts of Plassans. She could even see her own window
while ironing at the laundry by just tilting her head to the side.

They took possession of their new abode at the April quarter. Gervaise
was then eight months advanced. But she showed great courage, saying
with a laugh that the baby helped her as she worked; she felt its
influence growing within her and giving her strength. Ah, well! She
just laughed at Coupeau whenever he wanted her to lie down and rest
herself! She would take to her bed when the labor pains came. That
would be quite soon enough as with another mouth to feed, they would
have to work harder than ever.

She made their new place bright and shiny before helping her husband
install the furniture. She loved the furniture, polishing it and
becoming almost heart-broken at the slightest scratch. Any time she
knocked into the furniture while cleaning she would stop with a sudden
shock as though she had hurt herself.

The chest of drawers was especially dear to her. She thought it
handsome, sturdy and most respectable-looking. The dream that she
hadn't dared to mention was to get a clock and put it right in the
middle of the marble top. It would make a splendid effect. She
probably would have bought one right away except for the expected
baby.

The couple were thoroughly enchanted with their new home. Etienne's
bed occupied the small closet, where there was still room to put
another child's crib. The kitchen was a very tiny affair and as dark
as night, but by leaving the door wide open, one could just manage to
see; besides, Gervaise had not to cook meals for thirty people, all
she wanted was room to make her soup. As for the large room, it was
their pride. The first thing in the morning, they drew the curtains of
the alcove, white calico curtains; and the room was thus transformed
into a dining-room, with the table in the centre, and the wardrobe and
chest of drawers facing each other.

They stopped up the chimney since it burned as much as fifteen sous of
coal a day. A small cast-iron stove on the marble hearth gave them
enough warmth on cold days for only seven sous. Coupeau had also done
his best to decorate the walls. There was a large engraving showing a
marshal of France on horseback with a baton in his hand. Family
photographs were arranged in two rows on top of the chest of drawers
on each side of an old holy-water basin in which they kept matches.
Busts of Pascal and Beranger were on top of the wardrobe. It was
really a handsome room.

"Guess how much we pay here?" Gervaise would ask of every visitor she
had.

And whenever they guessed too high a sum, she triumphed and delighted
at being so well suited for such a little money, cried:

"One hundred and fifty francs, not a sou more! Isn't it almost like
having it for nothing!"

The street, Rue Neuve de la Goutte d'Or, played an important part in
their contentment. Gervaise's whole life was there, as she traveled
back and forth endlessly between her home and Madame Fauconnier's
laundry. Coupeau now went down every evening and stood on the doorstep
to smoke his pipe. The poorly-paved street rose steeply and had no
sidewalks. Toward Rue de la Goutte d'Or there were some gloomy shops
with dirty windows. There were shoemakers, coopers, a run-down
grocery, and a bankrupt cafe whose closed shutters were covered with
posters. In the opposite direction, toward Paris, four-story buildings
blocked the sky. Their ground floor shops were all occupied by
laundries with one exception--a green-painted store front typical of a
small-town hair-dresser. Its shop windows were full of variously
colored flasks. It lighted up this drab corner with the gay brightness
of its copper bowls which were always shining.

The most pleasant part of the street was in between, where the
buildings were fewer and lower, letting in more sunlight. The carriage
sheds, the plant which manufactured soda water, and the wash-house
opposite made a wide expanse of quietness. The muffled voices of the
washerwomen and the rhythmic puffing of the steam engine seemed to
deepen the almost religious silence. Open fields and narrow lanes
vanishing between dark walls gave it the air of a country village.
Coupeau, always amused by the infrequent pedestrians having to jump
over the continuous streams of soapy water, said it reminded him of a
country town where his uncle had taken him when he was five years old.
Gervaise's greatest joy was a tree growing in the courtyard to the
left of their window, an acacia that stretched out a single branch and
yet, with its meager foliage, lent charm to the entire street.

It was on the last day of April that Gervaise was confined. The pains
came on in the afternoon, towards four o'clock, as she was ironing a
pair of curtains at Madame Fauconnier's. She would not go home at
once, but remained there wriggling about on a chair, and continuing
her ironing every time the pain allowed her to do so; the curtains
were wanted quickly and she obstinately made a point of finishing
them. Besides, perhaps after all it was only a colic; it would never
do to be frightened by a bit of a stomach-ache. But as she was talking
of starting on some shirts, she became quite pale. She was obliged to
leave the work-shop, and cross the street doubled in two, holding on
to the walls. One of the workwomen offered to accompany her; she
declined, but begged her to go instead for the midwife, close by, in
the Rue de la Charbonniere. This was only a false alarm; there was no
need to make a fuss. She would be like that no doubt all through the
night. It was not going to prevent her getting Coupeau's dinner ready
as soon as she was indoors; then she might perhaps lie down on the bed
a little, but without undressing. On the staircase she was seized with
such a violent pain, that she was obliged to sit down on one of the
stairs; and she pressed her two fists against her mouth to prevent
herself from crying out, for she would have been ashamed to have been
found there by any man, had one come up. The pain passed away; she was
able to open her door, feeling relieved, and thinking that she had
decidedly been mistaken. That evening she was going to make a stew
with some neck chops. All went well while she peeled the potatoes. The
chops were cooking in a saucepan when the pains returned. She mixed
the gravy as she stamped about in front of the stove, almost blinded
with her tears. If she was going to give birth, that was no reason why
Coupeau should be kept without his dinner. At length the stew began to
simmer on a fire covered with cinders. She went into the other room,
and thought she would have time to lay the cloth at one end of the
table. But she was obliged to put down the bottle of wine very
quickly; she no longer had strength to reach the bed; she fell
prostrate, and she had more pains on a mat on the floor. When the
midwife arrived, a quarter of an hour later, she found mother and baby
lying there on the floor.

The zinc-worker was still employed at the hospital. Gervaise would not
have him disturbed. When he came home at seven o'clock, he found her
in bed, well covered up, looking very pale on the pillow, and the
child crying, swathed in a shawl at it's mother's feet.

"Ah, my poor wife!" said Coupeau, kissing Gervaise. "And I was joking
only an hour ago, whilst you were crying with pain! I say, you don't
make much fuss about it--the time to sneeze and it's all over."

She smiled faintly; then she murmured: "It's a girl."

"Right!" the zinc-worker replied, joking so as to enliven her, "I
ordered a girl! Well, now I've got what I wanted! You do everything I
wish!" And, taking the child up in his arms, he continued: "Let's have
a look at you, miss! You've got a very black little mug. It'll get
whiter, never fear. You must be good, never run about the streets, and
grow up sensible like your papa and mamma."

Gervaise looked at her daughter very seriously, with wide open eyes,
slowly overshadowed with sadness, for she would rather have had a boy.
Boys can talk care of themselves and don't have to run such risks on
the streets of Paris as girls do. The midwife took the infant from
Coupeau. She forbade Gervaise to do any talking; it was bad enough
there was so much noise around her.

Then the zinc-worker said that he must tell the news to mother Coupeau
and the Lorilleuxs, but he was dying with hunger, he must first of all
have his dinner. It was a great worry to the invalid to see him have
to wait on himself, run to the kitchen for the stew, eat it out of a
soup plate, and not be able to find the bread. In spite of being told
not to do so, she bewailed her condition, and fidgeted about in her
bed. It was stupid of her not to have managed to set the cloth, the
pains had laid her on her back like a blow from a bludgeon. Her poor
old man would not think it kind of her to be nursing herself up there
whilst he was dining so badly. At least were the potatoes cooked
enough? She no longer remembered whether she had put salt in them.

"Keep quiet!" cried the midwife.

"Ah! if only you could stop her from wearing herself out!" said
Coupeau with his mouth full. "If you were not here, I'd bet she'd get
up to cut my bread. Keep on your back, you big goose! You mustn't move
about, otherwise it'll be a fortnight before you'll be able to stand
on your legs. Your stew's very good. Madame will eat some with me,
won't you, Madame?"

The midwife declined; but she was willing to accept a glass of wine,
because it had upset her, said she to find the poor woman with the
baby on the mat. Coupeau at length went off to tell the news to his
relations. Half an hour later he returned with all of them, mother
Coupeau, the Lorilleuxs, and Madame Lerat, whom he had met at the
latter's.

"I've brought you the whole gang!" cried Coupeau. "It can't be helped!
They wanted to see you. Don't open your mouth, it's forbidden. They'll
stop here and look at you without ceremony, you know. As for me, I'm
going to make them some coffee, and of the right sort!"

He disappeared into the kitchen. Mother Coupeau after kissing
Gervaise, became amazed at the child's size. The two other women also
kissed the invalid on her cheeks. And all three, standing before the
bed, commented with divers exclamations on the details of the
confinement--a most remarkable confinement, just like having a tooth
pulled, nothing more.

Madame Lerat examined the baby all over, declared she was well formed,
even added that she could grow up into an attractive woman. Noticing
that the head had been squeezed into a point on top, she kneaded it
gently despite the infant's cries, trying to round it a bit. Madame
Lorilleux grabbed the baby from her; that could be enough to give the
poor little thing all sorts of vicious tendencies, meddling with it
like that while her skull was still soft. She then tried to figure out
who the baby resembled. This almost led to a quarrel. Lorilleux,
peering over the women's shoulders, insisted that the little girl
didn't look the least bit like Coupeau. Well, maybe a little around
the nose, nothing more. She was her mother all over again, with big
eyes like hers. Certainly there were no eyes like that in the Coupeau
family.

Coupeau, however, had failed to reappear. One could hear him in the
kitchen struggling with the grate and the coffee-pot. Gervaise was
worrying herself frightfully; it was not the proper thing for a man to
make coffee; and she called and told him what to do, without listening
to the midwife's energetic "hush!"

"Here we are!" said Coupeau, entering with the coffee-pot in his hand.
"Didn't I just have a bother with it! It all went wrong on purpose!
Now we'll drink out of glasses, won't we? Because you know, the cups
are still at the shop."

They seated themselves around the table, and the zinc-worker insisted
on pouring out the coffee himself. It smelt very strong, it was none
of that weak stuff. When the midwife had sipped hers up, she went off;
everything was going on nicely, she was not required. If the young
woman did not pass a good night they were to send for her on the
morrow. She was scarcely down the staircase, when Madame Lorilleux
called her a glutton and a good-for-nothing. She put four lumps of
sugar in her coffee, and charged fifteen francs for leaving you with
your baby all by yourself. But Coupeau took her part; he would
willingly fork out the fifteen francs. After all those sort of women
spent their youth in studying, they were right to charge a good price.

It was then Lorilleux who got into a quarrel with Madame Lerat by
maintaining that, in order to have a son, the head of the bed should
be turned to the north. She shrugged her shoulders at such nonsense,
offering another formula which consisted in hiding under the mattress,
without letting your wife know, a handful of fresh nettles picked in
bright sunlight.

The table had been pushed over close to the bed. Until ten o'clock
Gervaise lay there, smiling although she was only half awake. She was
becoming more and more weary, her head turned sideways on the pillow.
She no longer had the energy to venture a remark or a gesture. It
seemed to her that she was dead, a very sweet death, from the depths
of which she was happy to observe the others still in the land of the
living. The thin cries of her baby daughter rose above the hum of
heavy voices that were discussing a recent murder on Rue du Bon Puits,
at the other end of La Chapelle.

Then, as the visitors were thinking of leaving, they spoke of the
christening. The Lorilleux had promised to be godfather and godmother;
they looked very glum over the matter. However, if they had not been
asked to stand they would have felt rather peculiar. Coupeau did not
see any need for christening the little one; it certainly would not
procure her an income of ten thousand francs, and besides she might
catch a cold from it. The less one had to do with priests the better.
But mother Coupeau called him a heathen. The Lorilleux, without going
and eating consecrated bread in church, plumed themselves on their
religious sentiments.

"It shall be next Sunday, if you like," said the chainmaker.

And Gervaise having consented by a nod, everyone kissed her and told
her to take good care of herself. They also wished the baby good-bye.
Each one went and leant over the little trembling body with smiles and
loving words as though she were able to understand. They called her
Nana, the pet name for Anna, which was her godmother's name.

"Good night, Nana. Come be a good girl, Nana."

When they had at length gone off, Coupeau drew his chair close up to
the bed and finished his pipe, holding Gervaise's hand in his. He
smoked slowly, deeply affected and uttering sentences between the
puffs.

"Well, old woman, they've made your head ache, haven't they? You see I
couldn't prevent them coming. After all, it shows their friendship.
But we're better alone, aren't we? I wanted to be alone like this with
you. It has seemed such a long evening to me! Poor little thing, she's
had a lot to go through! Those shrimps, when they come out into the
world, have no idea of the pain they cause. It must really almost be
like being split in two. Where is does it hurt the most, that I may
kiss it and make it well?"

He had carefully slid one of his big hands under her back, and now he
drew her toward him, bending over to kiss her stomach through the
covers, touched by a rough man's compassion for the suffering of a
woman in childbirth. He inquired if he was hurting her. Gervaise felt
very happy, and answered him that it didn't hurt any more at all. She
was only worried about getting up as soon as possible, because there
was no time to lie about now. He assured her that he'd be responsible
for earning the money for the new little one. He would be a real bum
if he abandoned her and the little rascal. The way he figured it, what
really counted was bringing her up properly. Wasn't that so?

Coupeau did not sleep much that night. He covered up the fire in the
stove. Every hour he had to get up to give the baby spoonfuls of
lukewarm sugar and water. That did not prevent his going off to his
work in the morning as usual. He even took advantage of his lunch-hour
to make a declaration of the birth at the mayor's. During this time
Madame Boche, who had been informed of the event, had hastened to go
and pass the day with Gervaise. But the latter, after ten hours of
sleep, bewailed her position, saying that she already felt pains all
over her through having been so long in bed. She would become quite
ill if they did not let her get up. In the evening, when Coupeau
returned home, she told him all her worries; no doubt she had
confidence in Madame Boche, only it put her beside herself to see a
stranger installed in her room, opening the drawers, and touching her
things.

On the morrow the concierge, on returning from some errand, found her
up, dressed, sweeping and getting her husband's dinner ready; and it
was impossible to persuade her to go to bed again. They were trying to
make a fool of her perhaps! It was all very well for ladies to pretend
to be unable to move. When one was not rich one had no time for that
sort of thing. Three days after her confinement she was ironing
petticoats at Madame Fauconnier's, banging her irons and all in a
perspiration from the great heat of the stove.

On the Saturday evening, Madame Lorilleux brought her presents for her
godchild--a cup that cost thirty-five sous, and a christening dress,
plaited and trimmed with some cheap lace, which she had got for six
francs, because it was slightly soiled. On the morrow, Lorilleux, as
godfather, gave the mother six pounds of sugar. They certainly did
things properly! At the baptism supper which took place at the
Coupeaus that evening, they did not come empty-handed. Lorilleux
carried a bottle of fine wine under each arm and his wife brought a
large custard pie from a famous pastry shop on Chaussee Clignancourt.
But the Lorilleuxs made sure that the entire neighborhood knew they
had spent twenty francs. As soon as Gervaise learned of their
gossiping, furious, she stopped giving them credit for generosity.

It was at the christening feast that the Coupeaus ended by becoming
intimately acquainted with their neighbors on the opposite side of the
landing. The other lodging in the little house was occupied by two
persons, mother and son, the Goujets as they were called. Until then
the two families had merely nodded to each other on the stairs and in
the street, nothing more; the Coupeaus thought their neighbors seemed
rather bearish. Then the mother, having carried up a pail of water for
Gervaise on the morrow of her confinement, the latter had thought it
the proper thing to invite them to the feast, more especially as she
considered them very respectable people. And naturally, they there
became well acquainted with each other.

The Goujets came from the Departement du Nord. The mother mended lace;
the son, a blacksmith, worked at an iron bolt factory. They had lived
in their lodging for five years. Behind the quiet peacefulness of
their life, a long standing sorrow was hidden. Goujet the father, one
day when furiously drunk at Lille, had beaten a comrade to death with
an iron bar and had afterwards strangled himself in prison with his
handkerchief. The widow and child, who had come to Paris after their
misfortune, always felt the tragedy hanging over their heads, and
atoned for it by a strict honesty and an unvarying gentleness and
courage. They had a certain amount of pride in their attitude and
regarded themselves as better than other people.

Madame Goujet, dressed in black as usual, her forehead framed in a
nun's hood, had a pale, calm, matronly face, as if the whiteness of
the lace and the delicate work of her fingers had cast a glow of
serenity over her. Goujet was twenty-three years old, huge,
magnificently built, with deep blue eyes and rosy cheeks, and the
strength of Hercules. His comrades at the shop called him "Golden
Mouth" because of his handsome blonde beard.

Gervaise at once felt a great friendship for these people. When she
entered their home for the first time, she was amazed at the
cleanliness of the lodging. There was no denying it, one might blow
about the place without raising a grain of dust; and the tiled floor
shone like a mirror. Madame Goujet made her enter her son's room, just
to see it. It was pretty and white like the room of a young girl; an
iron bedstead with muslin curtains, a table, a washstand, and a narrow
bookcase hanging against the wall. Then there were pictures all over
the place, figures cut out, colored engravings nailed up with four
tacks, and portraits of all kinds of persons taken from the
illustrated papers.

Madame Goujet said with a smile that her son was a big baby. He found
that reading in the evening put him to sleep, so he amused himself
looking at pictures. Gervaise spent an hour with her neighbor without
noticing the passing of time. Madame Goujet had gone to sit by the
window and work on her lace. Gervaise was fascinated by the hundreds
of pins that held the lace, and she felt happy to be there, breathing
in the good clean atmosphere of this home where such a delicate task
enforced a sort of meditative silence.

The Goujets were worth visiting. They worked long hours, and placed
more than a quarter of their fortnight's earnings in the savings-bank.
In the neighborhood everyone nodded to them, everyone talked of their
savings. Goujet never had a hole in his clothes, always went out in a
clean short blue blouse, without a stain. He was very polite, and even
a trifle timid, in spite of his broad shoulders. The washerwomen at
the end of the street laughed to see him hold down his head when he
passed them. He did not like their oaths, and thought it disgusting
that women should be constantly uttering foul words. One day, however,
he came home tipsy. Then Madame Goujet, for sole reproach, held his
father's portrait before him, a daub of a painting hidden away at the
bottom of a drawer; and, ever since that lesson, Goujet never drank
more than was good for him, without however, any hatred of wine, for
wine is necessary to the workman. On Sundays he walked out with his
mother, who took hold of his arm. He would generally conduct her to
Vincennes; at other times they would go to the theatre. His mother
remained his passion. He still spoke to her as though he were a little
child. Square-headed, his skin toughened by the wielding of the heavy
hammer, he somewhat resembled the larger animals: dull of intellect,
though good-natured all the same.

In the early days of their acquaintance, Gervaise embarrassed him
immensely. Then in a few weeks he became accustomed to her. He watched
for her that he might carry up her parcels, treated her as a sister,
with an abrupt familiarity, and cut out pictures for her. One morning,
however, having opened her door without knocking, he beheld her half
undressed, washing her neck; and, for a week, he did not dare to look
her in the face, so much so that he ended by making her blush herself.

Young Cassis, with the casual wit of a born Parisian, called Golden
Mouth a dolt. It was all right not to get drunk all the time or chase
women, but still, a man must be a man, or else he might as well wear
skirts. Coupeau teased him in front of Gervaise, accusing him of
making up to all the women in the neighborhood. Goujet vigorously
defended himself against the charge.

But this didn't prevent the two workingmen from becoming best of
friends. They went off to work together in the mornings and sometimes
had a glass of beer together on the way home.

It eventually came about that Golden Mouth could render a service to
Young Cassis, one of those favors that is remembered forever.

It was the second of December. The zinc-worker decided, just for the
fun of it, to go into the city and watch the rioting. He didn't really
care about the Republic, or Napoleon or anything like that, but he
liked the smell of gunpowder and the sound of the rifles firing. He
would have been arrested as a rioter if the blacksmith hadn't turned
up at the barricade at just that moment and helped him escape. Goujet
was very serious as they walked back up the Rue du Faubourg
Poissonniere. He was interested in politics and believed in the
Republic. But he had never fired a gun because the common people were
getting tired of fighting battles for the middle classes who always
seemed to get the benefit of them.

As they reached the top of the slope of the Rue du Faubourg
Poissonniere, Goujet turned to look back at Paris and the mobs. After
all, some day people would be sorry that they just stood by and did
nothing. Coupeau laughed at this, saying you would be pretty stupid to
risk your neck just to preserve the twenty-five francs a day for the
lazybones in the Legislative Assembly. That evening the Coupeaus
invited the Goujets to dinner. After desert Young Cassis and Golden
Mouth kissed each other on the cheek. Their lives were joined till
death.

For three years the existence of the two families went on, on either
side of the landing, without an event. Gervaise was able to take care
of her daughter and still work most of the week. She was now a skilled
worker on fine laundry and earned up to three francs a day. She
decided to put Etienne, now nearly eight, into a small boarding-school
on Rue de Chartres for five francs a week. Despite the expenses for
the two children, they were able to save twenty or thirty francs each
month. Once they had six hundred francs saved, Gervaise often lay
awake thinking of her ambitious dream: she wanted to rent a small
shop, hire workers, and go into the laundry business herself. If this
effort worked, they would have a steady income from savings in twenty
years. They could retire and live in the country.

Yet she hesitated, saying she was looking for the right shop. She was
giving herself time to think it over. Their savings were safe in the
bank, and growing larger. So, in three years' time she had only
fulfilled one of her dreams--she had bought a clock. But even this
clock, made of rosewood with twined columns and a pendulum of gilded
brass, was being paid for in installments of twenty-two sous each
Monday for a year. She got upset if Coupeau tried to wind it; she
liked to be the only one to lift off the glass dome. It was under the
glass dome, behind the clock, that she hid her bank book. Sometimes,
when she was dreaming of her shop, she would stare fixedly at the
clock, lost in thought.

The Coupeaus went out nearly every Sunday with the Goujets. They were
pleasant little excursions, sometimes to have some fried fish at
Saint-Ouen, at others a rabbit at Vincennes, in the garden of some
eating-house keeper without any grand display. The men drank
sufficient to quench their thirst, and returned home as right as nine-
pins, giving their arms to the ladies. In the evening before going to
bed, the two families made up accounts and each paid half the
expenses; and there was never the least quarrel about a sou more or
less.

The Lorilleuxs became jealous of the Goujets. It seemed strange to
them to see Young Cassis and Clump-clump going places all the time
with strangers instead of their own relations. But, that's the way it
was; some folks didn't care a bit about their family. Now that they
had saved a few sous, they thought they were really somebody. Madame
Lorilleux was much annoyed to see her brother getting away from her
influence and begin to continually run down Gervaise to everyone. On
the other hand, Madame Lerat took the young wife's side. Mother
Coupeau tried to get along with everybody. She only wanted to be
welcomed by all three of her children. Now that her eyesight was
getting dimmer and dimmer she only had one regular house cleaning job
but she was able to pick up some small jobs now and again.

On the day on which Nana was three years old, Coupeau, on returning
home in the evening, found Gervaise quite upset. She refused to talk
about it; there was nothing at all the matter with her, she said. But,
as she had the table all wrong, standing still with the plates in her
hands, absorbed in deep reflection, her husband insisted upon knowing
what was the matter.

"Well, it is this," she ended by saying, "the little draper's shop in
the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or, is to let. I saw it only an hour ago, when
going to buy some cotton. It gave me quite a turn."

It was a very decent shop, and in that big house where they dreamed of
living in former days. There was the shop, a back room, and two other
rooms to the right and left; in short, just what they required. The
rooms were rather small, but well placed. Only, she considered they
wanted too much; the landlord talked of five hundred francs.

"So you've been over the place, and asked the price?" said Coupeau.

"Oh! you know, only out of curiosity!" replied she, affecting an air
of indifference. "One looks about, and goes in wherever there's a bill
up--that doesn't bind one to anything. But that shop is altogether too
dear. Besides, it would perhaps be foolish of me to set up in
business."

However, after dinner, she again referred to the draper's shop. She
drew a plan of the place on the margin of a newspaper. And, little by
little, she talked it over, measuring the corners, and arranging the
rooms, as though she were going to move all her furniture in there on
the morrow. Then Coupeau advised her to take it, seeing how she wanted
to do so; she would certainly never find anything decent under five
hundred francs; besides they might perhaps get a reduction. He knew
only one objection to it and that was living in the same house as the
Lorilleux, whom she could not bear.

Gervaise declared that she wasn't mad at anybody. So much did she want
her own shop that she even spoke up for the Lorilleuxs, saying that
they weren't mean at heart and that she would be able to get along
just fine with them. When they went to bed, Coupeau fell asleep
immediately, but she stayed awake, planning how she could arrange the
new place even though she hadn't yet made up her mind completely.

On the morrow, when she was alone, she could not resist removing the
glass cover from the clock, and taking a peep at the savings-bank
book. To think that her shop was there, in those dirty pages, covered
with ugly writing! Before going off to her work, she consulted Madame
Goujet, who highly approved her project of setting up in business for
herself; with a husband like hers, a good fellow who did not drink,
she was certain of getting on, and of not having her earnings
squandered. At the luncheon hour Gervaise even called on the
Lorilleuxs to ask their advice; she did not wish to appear to be doing
anything unknown to the family. Madame Lorilleux was struck all of a
heap. What! Clump-clump was going in for a shop now! And her heart
bursting with envy, she stammered, and tried to pretend to be pleased:
no doubt the shop was a convenient one--Gervaise was right in taking
it. However, when she had somewhat recovered, she and her husband
talked of the dampness of the courtyard, of the poor light of the
rooms on the ground floor. Oh! it was a good place for rheumatism.
Yet, if she had made up her mind to take it, their observations, of
course, would not make her alter her decision.

That evening Gervaise frankly owned with a laugh that she would have
fallen ill if she had been prevented from having the shop.
Nevertheless, before saying "it's done!" she wished to take Coupeau to
see the place, and try and obtain a reduction in the rent.

"Very well, then, to-morrow, if you like," said her husband. "You can
come and fetch me towards six o'clock at the house where I'm working,
in the Rue de la Nation, and we'll call in at the Rue de la Goutte-
d'Or on our way home."

Coupeau was then finishing the roofing of a new three-storied house.
It so happened that on that day he was to fix the last sheets of zinc.
As the roof was almost flat, he had set up his bench on it, a wide
shutter supported on two trestles. A beautiful May sun was setting,
giving a golden hue to the chimney-pots. And, right up at the top,
against the clear sky, the workman was quietly cutting up his zinc
with a big pair of shears, leaning over the bench, and looking like a
tailor in his shop cutting out a pair of trousers. Close to the wall
of the next house, his boy, a youngster of seventeen, thin and fair,
was keeping the fire of the chafing dish blazing by the aid of an
enormous pair of bellows, each puff of which raised a cloud of sparks.

"Hi! Zidore, put in the irons!" cried Coupeau.

The boy stuck the soldering irons into the midst of the charcoal,
which looked a pale rose color in the daylight. Then he resumed
blowing. Coupeau held the last sheet of zinc. It had to be placed at
the edge of the roof, close to the gutter-pipe; there was an abrupt
slant there, and the gaping void of the street opened beneath. The
zinc-worker, just as though in his own home, wearing his list-shoes,
advanced, dragging his feet, and whistling the air, "Oh! the little
lambs." Arrived in front of the opening, he let himself down, and
then, supporting himself with one knee against the masonry of a
chimney-stack, remained half-way out over the pavement below. One of
his legs dangled. When he leant back to call that young viper, Zidore,
he held on to a corner of the masonry, on account of the street
beneath him.

"You confounded dawdler! Give me the irons! It's no use looking up in
the air, you skinny beggar! The larks won't tumble into your mouth
already cooked!"

But Zidore did not hurry himself. He was interested in the neighboring
roofs, and in a cloud of smoke which rose from the other side of
Paris, close to Grenelle; it was very likely a fire. However, he came
and laid down on his stomach, his head over the opening, and he passed
the irons to Coupeau. Then the latter commenced to solder the sheet.
He squatted, he stretched, always managing to balance himself,
sometimes seated on one side, at other times standing on the tip of
one foot, often only holding on by a finger. He had a confounded
assurance, the devil's own cheek, familiar with danger, and braving
it. It knew him. It was the street that was afraid, not he. As he kept
his pipe in his mouth, he turned round every now and then to spit onto
the pavement.

"Look, there's Madame Boche," he suddenly exclaimed and called down to
her. "Hi! Madame Boche."

He had just caught sight of the concierge crossing the road. She
raised her head and recognised him, and a conversation ensured between
them. She hid her hands under her apron, her nose elevated in the air.
He, standing up now, his left arm passed round a chimney-pot, leant
over.

"Have you seen my wife?" asked he.

"No, I haven't," replied the concierge. "Is she around here?"

"She's coming to fetch me. And are they all well at home?"

"Why, yes, thanks; I'm the most ill, as you see. I'm going to the
Chaussee Clignancourt to buy a small leg of mutton. The butcher near
the Moulin-Rouge only charges sixteen sous."

They raised their voices, because a vehicle was passing. In the wide,
deserted Rue de la Nation, their words, shouted out with all their
might, had only caused a little old woman to come to her window; and
this little old woman remained there leaning out, giving herself the
treat of a grand emotion by watching that man on the roof over the
way, as though she expected to see him fall, from one minute to
another.

"Well! Good evening," cried Madame Boche. "I won't disturb you."

Coupeau turned round, and took back the iron that Zidore was holding
for him. But just as the concierge was moving off, she caught sight of
Gervaise on the other side of the way, holding Nana by the hand. She
was already raising her head to tell the zinc-worker, when the young
woman closed her mouth by an energetic gesture, and, in a low voice,
so as not to be heard up there, she told her of her fear: she was
afraid, by showing herself suddenly, of giving her husband a shock
which might make him lose his balance. During the four years, she had
only been once to fetch him at his work. That day was the second time.
She could not witness it, her blood turned cold when she beheld her
old man between heaven and earth, in places where even the sparrows
would not venture.

"No doubt, it's not pleasant," murmured Madame Boche. "My husband's a
tailor, so I have none of these terrors."

"If you only knew, in the early days," said Gervaise again, "I had
frights from morning till night. I was always seeing him on a
stretcher, with his head smashed. Now, I don't think of it so much.
One gets used to everything. Bread must be earned. All the same, it's
a precious dear loaf, for one risks one's bones more than is fair."

And she left off speaking, hiding Nana in her skirt, fearing a cry
from the little one. Very pale, she looked up in spite of herself. At
that moment Coupeau was soldering the extreme edge of the sheet close
to the gutter; he slid down as far as possible, but without being able
to reach the edge. Then, he risked himself with those slow movements
peculiar to workmen. For an instant he was immediately over the
pavement, no long holding on, all absorbed in his work; and, from
below, one could see the little white flame of the solder frizzling up
beneath the carefully wielded iron. Gervaise, speechless, her throat
contracted with anguish, had clasped her hands together, and held them
up in mechanical gesture of prayer. But she breathed freely as Coupeau
got up and returned back along the roof, without hurrying himself, and
taking the time to spit once more into the street.

"Ah! ah! so you've been playing the spy on me!" cried he, gaily, on
beholding her. "She's been making a stupid of herself, eh, Madame
Boche? She wouldn't call to me. Wait a bit, I shall have finished in
ten minutes."

All that remained to do was to fix the top of the chimney--a mere
nothing. The laundress and the concierge waited on the pavement,
discussing the neighborhood, and giving an eye to Nana, to prevent her
from dabbling in the gutter, where she wanted to look for little
fishes; and the two women kept glancing up at the roof, smiling and
nodding their heads, as though to imply that they were not losing
patience. The old woman opposite had not left her window, had
continued watching the man, and waiting.

"Whatever can she have to look at, that old she-goat?" said Madame
Boche. "What a mug she has!"

One could hear the loud voice of the zinc-worker up above singing,
"Ah! it's nice to gather strawberries!" Bending over his bench, he was
now artistically cutting out his zinc. With his compasses he traced a
line, and he detached a large fan-shaped piece with the aid of a pair
of curved shears; then he lightly bent this fan with his hammer into
the form of a pointed mushroom. Zidore was again blowing the charcoal
in the chafing-dish. The sun was setting behind the house in a
brilliant rosy light, which was gradually becoming paler, and turning
to a delicate lilac. And, at this quiet hour of the day, right up
against the sky, the silhouettes of the two workmen, looking
inordinately large, with the dark line of the bench, and the strange
profile of the bellows, stood out from the limpid back-ground of the
atmosphere.

When the chimney-top was got into shape, Coupeau called out: "Zidore!
The irons!"

But Zidore had disappeared. The zinc-worker swore, and looked about
for him, even calling him through the open skylight of the loft. At
length he discovered him on a neighboring roof, two houses off. The
young rogue was taking a walk, exploring the environs, his fair scanty
locks blowing in the breeze, his eyes blinking as they beheld the
immensity of Paris.

"I say, lazy bones! Do you think you're having a day in the country?"
asked Coupeau, in a rage. "You're like Monsieur Beranger, composing
verses, perhaps! Will you give me those irons! Did any one ever see
such a thing! Strolling about on the house-tops! Why not bring your
sweetheart at once, and tell her of your love? Will you give me those
irons? You confounded little shirker!"

He finished his soldering, and called to Gervaise: "There, it's done.
I'm coming down."

The chimney-pot to which he had to fix the flue was in the middle of
the roof. Gervaise, who was no longer uneasy, continued to smile as
she followed his movements. Nana, amused all on a sudden by the view
of her father, clapped her little hands. She had seated herself on the
pavement to see the better up there.

"Papa! Papa!" called she with all her might. "Papa! Just look!"

The zinc-worker wished to lean forward, but his foot slipped. Then
suddenly, stupidly, like a cat with its legs entangled, he rolled and
descended the slight slope of the roof without being able to grab hold
of anything.

"/Mon Dieu/," he cried in a choked voice.

And he fell. His body described a gentle curve, turned twice over on
itself, and came smashing into the middle of the street with the dull
thud of a bundle of clothes thrown from on high.

Gervaise, stupefied, her throat rent by one great cry, stood holding
up her arms. Some passers-by hastened to the spot; a crowd soon
formed. Madame Boche, utterly upset, her knees bending under her, took
Nana in her arms, to hide her head and prevent her seeing. Meanwhile,
the little old woman opposite quietly closed her window, as though
satisfied.

Four men ended by carrying Coupeau into a chemist's, at the corner of
the Rue des Poissonniers; and he remained there on a blanket, in the
middle of the shop, whist they sent to the Lariboisiere Hospital for a
stretcher. He was still breathing.

Gervaise, sobbing, was kneeling on the floor beside him, her face
smudged with tears, stunned and unseeing. Her hands would reach to
feel her husband's limbs with the utmost gentleness. Then she would
draw back as she had been warned not to touch him. But a few seconds
later she would touch him to assure herself that he was still warm,
feeling somehow that she was helping him.

When the stretcher at length arrived, and they talked of starting for
the hospital, she got up, saying violently:

"No, no, not to the hospital! We live in the Rue Neuve de la Goutte-
d'Or."

It was useless for them to explain to her that the illness would cost
her a great deal of money, if she took her husband home. She
obstinately repeated:

"Rue Neuve de la Goutte-d'Or; I will show you the house. What can it
matter to you? I've got money. He's my husband, isn't he? He's mine,
and I want him at home."

And they had to take Coupeau to his own home. When the stretcher was
carried through the crowd which was crushing up against the chemist's
shop, the women of the neighborhood were excitedly talking of
Gervaise. She limped, the dolt, but all the same she had some pluck.
She would be sure to save her old man; whilst at the hospital the
doctors let the patients die who were very bad, so as not to have the
bother of trying to cure them. Madame Boche, after taking Nana home
with her, returned, and gave her account of the accident, with
interminable details, and still feeling agitated with the emotion she
had passed through.

"I was going to buy a leg of mutton; I was there, I saw him fall,"
repeated she. "It was all through the little one; he turned to look at
her, and bang! Ah! good heavens! I never want to see such a sight
again. However, I must be off to get my leg of mutton."

For a week Coupeau was very bad. The family, the neighbors, everyone,
expected to see him turn for the worse at any moment. The doctor--a
very expensive doctor, who charged five francs for each visit--
apprehended internal injuries, and these words filled everyone with
fear. It was said in the neighborhood that the zinc-worker's heart had
been injured by the shock. Gervaise alone, looking pale through her
nights of watching, serious and resolute, shrugged her shoulders. Her
old man's right leg was broken, everyone knew that; it would be set
for him, and that was all. As for the rest, the injured heart, that
was nothing. She knew how to restore a heart with ceaseless care. She
was certain of getting him well and displayed magnificent faith. She
stayed close by him and caressed him gently during the long bouts of
fever without a moment of doubt. She was on her feet continuously for
a whole week, completely absorbed by her determination to save him.
She forgot the street outside, the entire city, and even her own
children. On the ninth day, the doctor finally said that Coupeau would
live. Gervaise collapsed into a chair, her body limp from fatigue.
That night she consented to sleep for two hours with her head against
the foot of the bed.

Coupeau's accident had created quite a commotion in the family. Mother
Coupeau passed the nights with Gervaise; but as early as nine o'clock
she fell asleep on a chair. Every evening, on returning from work,
Madame Lerat went a long round out of her way to inquire how her
brother was getting on. At first the Lorilleuxs had called two or
three times a day, offering to sit up and watch, and even bringing an
easy-chair for Gervaise. Then it was not long before there were
disputes as to the proper way to nurse invalids. Madame Lorilleux said
that she had saved enough people's lives to know how to go about it.
She accused the young wife of pushing her aside, of driving her away
from her own brother's bed. Certainly that Clump-clump ought to be
concerned about Coupeau's getting well, for if she hadn't gone to Rue
de la Nation to disturb him at his job, he would never had fallen.
Only, the way she was taking care of him, she would certainly finish
him.

When Gervaise saw that Coupeau was out of danger, she ceased guarding
his bedside with so much jealous fierceness. Now, they could no longer
kill him, and she let people approach without mistrust. The family
invaded the room. The convalescence would be a very long one; the
doctor had talked of four months. Then, during the long hours the
zinc-worker slept, the Lorilleux talked of Gervaise as of a fool. She
hadn't done any good by having her husband at home. At the hospital
they would have cured him twice as quickly. Lorilleux would have liked
to have been ill, to have caught no matter what, just to show her that
he did not hesitate for a moment to go to Lariboisiere. Madame
Lorilleux knew a lady who had just come from there. Well! She had had
chicken to eat morning and night.

Again and again the two of them went over their estimate of how much
four months of convalescence would cost; workdays lost, the doctor and
the medicines, and afterward good wine and fresh meat. If the Coupeaus
only used up their small savings, they would be very lucky indeed.
They would probably have to do into debt. Well, that was to be
expected and it was their business. They had no right to expect any
help from the family, which couldn't afford the luxury of keeping an
invalid at home. It was just Clump-clump's bad luck, wasn't it? Why
couldn't she have done as others did and let her man be taken to
hospital? This just showed how stuck up she was.

One evening Madame Lorilleux had the spitefulness to ask Gervaise
suddenly:

"Well! And your shop, when are you going to take it?"

"Yes," chuckled Lorilleux, "the landlord's still waiting for you."

Gervaise was astonished. She had completely forgotten the shop; but
she saw the wicked joy of those people, at the thought that she would
no longer be able to take it, and she was bursting with anger. From
that evening, in fact, they watched for every opportunity to twit her
about her hopeless dream. When any one spoke of some impossible wish,
they would say that it might be realized on the day that Gervaise
started in business, in a beautiful shop opening onto the street. And
behind her back they would laugh fit to split their sides. She did not
like to think such an unkind thing, but, really, the Lorilleuxs now
seemed to be very pleased at Coupeau's accident, as it prevented her
setting up as a laundress in the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or.

Then she also wished to laugh, and show them how willingly she parted
with the money for the sake of curing her husband. Each time she took
the savings-bank book from beneath the glass clock-tower in their
presence, she would say gaily:

"I'm going out; I'm going to rent my shop."

She had not been willing to withdraw the money all at once. She took
it out a hundred francs at a time, so as not to keep such a pile of
gold and silver in her drawer; then, too, she vaguely hoped for some
miracle, some sudden recovery, which would enable them not to part
with the entire sum. At each journey to the savings-bank, on her
return home, she added up on a piece of paper the money they had still
left there. It was merely for the sake of order. Their bank account
might be getting smaller all the time, yet she went on with her quiet
smile and common-sense attitude, keeping the account straight. It was
a consolation to be able to use this money for such a good purpose, to
have had it when faced with their misfortune.

While Coupeau was bed-ridden the Goujets were very kind to Gervaise.
Madame Goujet was always ready to assist. She never went to shop
without stopping to ask Gervaise if there was anything she needed,
sugar or butter or salt. She always brought over hot bouillon on the
evenings she cooked /pot au feu/. Sometimes, when Gervaise seemed to
have too much to do, Madame Goujet helped her do the dishes, or
cleaned the kitchen herself. Goujet took her water pails every morning
and filled them at the tap on Rue des Poissonniers, saving her two
sous a day. After dinner, if no family came to visit, the Goujets
would come over to visit with the Coupeaus.

Until ten o'clock, the blacksmith would smoke his pipe and watch
Gervaise busy with her invalid. He would not speak ten words the
entire evening. He was moved to pity by the sight of her pouring
Coupeau's tea and medicine into a cup, or stirring the sugar in it
very carefully so as to make no sound with the spoon. It stirred him
deeply when she would lean over Coupeau and speak in her soft voice.
Never before had he known such a fine woman. Her limp increased the
credit due her for wearing herself out doing things for her husband
all day long. She never sat down for ten minutes, not even to eat. She
was always running to the chemist's. And then she would still keep the
house clean, not even a speck of dust. She never complained, no matter
how exhausted she became. Goujet developed a very deep affection for
Gervaise in this atmosphere of unselfish devotion.

One day he said to the invalid, "Well, old man, now you're patched up
again! I wasn't worried about you. Your wife works miracles."

Goujet was supposed to be getting married. His mother had found a
suitable girl, a lace-mender like herself, whom she was urging him to
marry. He had agreed so as not to hurt her feelings and the wedding
had been set for early September. Money had long since been saved to
set them up in housekeeping. However, when Gervaise referred to his
coming marriage, he shook his head, saying, "Not every woman is like
you, Madame Coupeau. If all women were like you, I'd marry ten of
them."

At the end of two months, Coupeau was able to get up. He did not go
far, only from the bed to the window, and even then Gervaise had to
support him. There he would sit down in the easy-chair the Lorilleuxs
had brought, with his right leg stretched out on a stool. This joker,
who used to laugh at the people who slipped down on frosty days, felt
greatly put out by his accident. He had no philosophy. He had spent
those two months in bed, in cursing, and in worrying the people about
him. It was not an existence, really, to pass one's life on one's
back, with a pin all tied up and as stiff as a sausage. Ah, he
certainly knew the ceiling by heart; there was a crack, at the corner
of the alcove, that he could have drawn with his eyes shut. Then, when
he was made comfortable in the easy-chair, it was another grievance.
Would he be fixed there for long, just like a mummy?

Nobody ever passed along the street, so it was no fun to watch.
Besides, it stank of bleach water all day. No, he was just growing
old; he'd have given ten years of his life just to go see how the
fortifications were getting along. He kept going on about his fate. It
wasn't right, what had happened to him. A good worker like him, not a
loafer or a drunkard, he could have understood in that case.

"Papa Coupeau," said he, "broke his neck one day that he'd been
boozing. I can't say that it was deserved, but anyhow it was
explainable. I had had nothing since my lunch, was perfectly quiet,
and without a drop of liquor in my body; and yet I came to grief just
because I wanted to turn round to smile at Nana! Don't you think
that's too much? If there is a providence, it certainly arranges
things in a very peculiar manner. I, for one, shall never believe in
it."

And when at last he was able to use his legs, he retained a secret
grudge against work. It was a handicraft full of misfortunes to pass
one's days, like the cats, on the roofs of the houses. The employers
were no fools! They sent you to your death--being far too cowardly to
venture themselves on a ladder--and stopped at home in safety at their
fire-sides without caring a hang for the poorer classes; and he got to
the point of saying that everyone ought to fix the zinc himself on
his own house. /Mon Dieu/! It was the only fair way to do it! If you
don't want the rain to come in, do the work yourself. He regretted he
hadn't learned another trade, something more pleasant, something less
dangerous, maybe cabinetmaking. It was really his father's fault. Lots
of fathers have the foolish habit of shoving their sons into their own
line of work.

For another two months Coupeau hobbled about on crutches. He had first
of all managed to get as far as the street, and smoke his pipe in
front of the door. Then he had managed to reach the exterior
Boulevard, dragging himself along in the sunshine, and remaining for
hours on one of the seats. Gaiety returned to him; his infernal tongue
got sharper in these long hours of idleness. And with the pleasure of
living, he gained there a delight in doing nothing, an indolent
feeling took possession of his limbs, and his muscles gradually glided
into a very sweet slumber. It was the slow victory of laziness, which
took advantage of his convalescence to obtain possession of his body
and unnerve him with its tickling. He regained his health, as thorough
a banterer as before, thinking life beautiful, and not seeing why it
should not last for ever.

As soon as he could get about without the crutches, he made longer
walks, often visiting construction jobs to see old comrades. He would
stand with his arms folded, sneering and shaking his head, ridiculing
the workers slaving at the job, stretching out his leg to show them
what you got for wearing yourself out. Being able to stand about and
mock others while they were working satisfied his spite against hard
work. No doubt he'd have to go back to it, but he'd put it off as long
as possible. He had a reason now to be lazy. Besides, it seemed good
to him to loaf around like a bum!

On the afternoons when Coupeau felt dull, he would call on the
Lorilleuxs. The latter would pity him immensely, and attract him with
all sorts of amiable attentions. During the first years following his
marriage, he had avoided them, thanks to Gervaise's influence. Now
they regained their sway over him by twitting him about being afraid
of his wife. He was no man, that was evident! The Lorilleuxs, however,
showed great discretion, and were loud in their praise of the
laundress's good qualities. Coupeau, without as yet coming to
wrangling, swore to the latter that his sister adored her, and
requested that she would behave more amiably to her. The first quarrel
which the couple had occurred one evening on account of Etienne. The
zinc-worker had passed the afternoon with the Lorilleuxs. On arriving
home, as the dinner was not quite ready, and the children were whining
for their soup, he suddenly turned upon Etienne, and boxed his ears
soundly. And during an hour he did not cease to grumble; the brat was
not his; he did not know why he allowed him to be in the place; he
would end by turning him out into the street. Up till then he had
tolerated the youngster without all that fuss. On the morrow he talked
of his dignity. Three days after, he kept kicking the little fellow,
morning and evening, so much so that the child, whenever he heard him
coming, bolted into the Goujets' where the old lace-mender kept a
corner of the table clear for him to do his lessons.

Gervaise had for some time past, returned to work. She no longer had
the trouble of looking under the glass cover of the clock; all the
savings were gone; and she had to work hard, work for four, for there
were four to feed now. She alone maintained them. Whenever she heard
people pitying her, she at once found excuses for Coupeau. Recollect!
He had suffered so much; it was not surprising if his disposition had
soured! But it would pass off when his health returned. And if any one
hinted that Coupeau seemed all right again, that he could very well
return to work, she protested: No, no; not yet! She did not want to
see him take to his bed again. They would allow her to know best what
the doctor said, perhaps! It was she who prevented him returning to
work, telling him every morning to take his time and not to force
himself. She even slipped twenty sou pieces into his waistcoat pocket.
Coupeau accepted this as something perfectly natural. He was always
complaining of aches and pains so that she would coddle him. At the
end of six months he was still convalescing.

Now, whenever he went to watch others working, he was always ready to
join his comrades in downing a shot. It wasn't so bad, after all. They
had their fun, and they never stayed more than five minutes. That
couldn't hurt anybody. Only a hypocrite would say he went in because
he wanted a drink. No wonder they had laughed at him in the past. A
glass of wine never hurt anybody. He only drank wine though, never
brandy. Wine never made you sick, didn't get you drunk, and helped you
to live longer. Soon though, several times, after a day of idleness in
going from one building job to another, he came home half drunk. On
those occasions Gervaise pretended to have a terrible headache and
kept their door closed so that the Goujets wouldn't hear Coupeau's
drunken babblings.

Little by little, the young woman lost her cheerfulness. Morning and
evening she went to the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or to look at the shop,
which was still to be let; and she would hide herself as though she
were committing some childish prank unworthy of a grown-up person.
This shop was beginning to turn her brain. At night-time, when the
light was out she experienced the charm of some forbidden pleasure by
thinking of it with her eyes open. She again made her calculations;
two hundred and fifty francs for the rent, one hundred and fifty
francs for utensils and moving, one hundred francs in hand to keep
them going for a fortnight--in all five hundred francs at the very
lowest figure. If she was not continually thinking of it aloud, it was
for fear she should be suspected of regretting the savings swallowed
up by Coupeau's illness. She often became quite pale, having almost
allowed her desire to escape her and catching back her words, quite
confused as though she had been thinking of something wicked. Now they
would have to work for four or five years before they would succeed in
saving such a sum. Her regret was at not being able to start in
business at once; she would have earned all the home required, without
counting on Coupeau, letting him take months to get into the way of
work again; she would no longer have been uneasy, but certain of the
future and free from the secret fears which sometimes seized her when
he returned home very gay and singing, and relating some joke of that
animal My-Boots, whom he had treated to a drink.

One evening, Gervaise being at home alone, Goujet entered, and did not
hurry off again, according to his habit. He seated himself, and smoked
as he watched her. He probably had something very serious to say; he
thought it over, let it ripen without being able to put it into
suitable words. At length, after a long silence, he appeared to make
up his mind, and took his pipe out of his mouth to say all in a
breath:

"Madame Gervaise, will you allow me to lend you some money?"

She was leaning over an open drawer, looking for some dish-cloths. She
got up, her face very red. He must have seen her then, in the morning,
standing in ecstacy before the shop for close upon ten minutes. He was
smiling in an embarrassed way, as though he had made some insulting
proposal. But she hastily refused. Never would she accept money from
any one without knowing when she would be able to return it. Then also
it was a question of too large an amount. And as he insisted, in a
frightened manner, she ended by exclaiming:

"But your marriage? I certainly can't take the money you've been
saving for your marriage!"

"Oh, don't let that bother you," he replied, turning red in his turn.
"I'm not going to be married now. That was just an idea, you know.
Really, I would much sooner lend you the money."

Then they both held down their heads. There was something very
pleasant between them to which they did not give expression. And
Gervaise accepted. Goujet had told his mother. They crossed the
landing, and went to see her at once. The lace-mender was very grave,
and looked rather sad as she bent her face over her tambour-frame. She
would not thwart her son, but she no longer approved Gervaise's
project; and she plainly told her why. Coupeau was going to the bad;
Coupeau would swallow up her shop. She especially could not forgive
the zinc-worker for having refused to learn to read during his
convalescence. The blacksmith had offered to teach him, but the other
had sent him to the right about, saying that learning made people get
thin. This had almost caused a quarrel between the two workmen; each
went his own way. Madame Goujet, however, seeing her big boy's
beseeching glances, behaved very kindly to Gervaise. It was settled
that they would lend their neighbors five hundred francs; the latter
were to repay the amount by installments of twenty francs a month; it
would last as long as it lasted.

"I say, the blacksmith's sweet on you," exclaimed Coupeau, laughing,
when he heard what had taken place. "Oh, I'm quite easy; he's too big
a muff. We'll pay him back his money. But, really, if he had to deal
with some people, he'd find himself pretty well duped."

On the morrow the Coupeaus took the shop. All day long, Gervaise was
running from Rue Neuve de la Goutte-d'Or. When the neighbors beheld
her pass thus, nimble and delighted to the extent that she no longer
limped, they said she must have undergone some operation.



                              CHAPTER V.

It so happened that the Boches had left the Rue des Poissonniers at
the April quarter, and were now taking charge of the great house in
the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or. It was a curious coincidence, all the same!
One thing that worried Gervaise who had lived so quietly in her
lodgings in the Rue Neuve, was the thought of again being under the
subjection of some unpleasant person, with whom she would be
continually quarrelling, either on account of water spilt in the
passage or of a door shut too noisily at night-time. Concierges are
such a disagreeable class! But it would be a pleasure to be with the
Boches. They knew one another--they would always get on well together.
It would be just like members of the same family.

On the day the Coupeaus went to sign their lease, Gervaise felt her
heart swollen with pride as she passed through the high doorway. She
was then at length going to live in that house as vast as a little
town, with its interminable staircases, and passages as long and
winding as streets. She was excited by everything: the gray walls with
varicolored rugs hanging from windows to dry in the sun, the dingy
courtyard with as many holes in its pavement as a public square, the
hum of activity coming through the walls. She felt joy that she was at
last about to realize her ambition. She also felt fear that she would
fail and be crushed in the endless struggle against the poverty and
starvation she could feel breathing down her neck. It seemed to her
that she was doing something very bold, throwing herself into the
midst of some machinery in motion, as she listened to the blacksmith's
hammers and the cabinetmakers' planes, hammering and hissing in the
depths of the work-shops on the ground floor. On that day the water
flowing from the dyer's under the entrance porch was a very pale apple
green. She smilingly stepped over it; to her the color was a pleasant
omen.

The meeting with the landlord was to take place in the Boches' room.
Monsieur Marescot, a wealthy cutler of the Rue de la Paix, had at one
time turned a grindstone through the streets. He was now stated to be
worth several millions. He was a man of fifty-five, large and big-
boned. Even though he now wore a decoration in his button-hole, his
huge hands were still those of a former workingman. It was his joy to
carry off the scissors and knives of his tenants, to sharpen them
himself, for the fun of it. He often stayed for hours with his
concierges, closed up in the darkness of their lodges, going over the
accounts. That's where he did all his business. He was now seated by
Madame Boche's kitchen table, listening to her story of how the
dressmaker on the third floor, staircase A, had used a filthy word in
refusing to pay her rent. He had had to work precious hard once upon a
time. But work was the high road to everything. And, after counting
the two hundred and fifty francs for the first two quarters in
advance, and dropping them into his capacious pocket, he related the
story of his life, and showed his decoration.

Gervaise, however, felt rather ill at ease on account of the Boches'
behavior. They pretended not to know her. They were most assiduous in
their attentions to the landlord, bowing down before him, watching for
his least words, and nodding their approval of them. Madame Boche
suddenly ran out and dispersed a group of children who were paddling
about in front of the cistern, the tap of which they had turned full
on, causing the water to flow over the pavement; and when she
returned, upright and severe in her skirts, crossing the courtyard and
glancing slowly up at all the windows, as though to assure herself of
the good behavior of the household, she pursed her lips in a way to
show with what authority she was invested, now that she reigned over
three hundred tenants. Boche again spoke of the dressmaker on the
second floor; he advised that she should be turned out; he reckoned up
the number of quarters she owed with the importance of a steward whose
management might be compromised. Monsieur Marescot approved the
suggestion of turning her out, but he wished to wait till the half
quarter. It was hard to turn people out into the street, more
especially as it did not put a sou into the landlord's pocket. And
Gervaise asked herself with a shudder if she too would be turned out
into the street the day that some misfortune rendered her unable to
pay.

The concierge's lodge was as dismal as a cellar, black from smoke and
crowded with dark furniture. All the sunlight fell upon the tailor's
workbench by the window. An old frock coat that was being reworked lay
on it. The Boches' only child, a four-year-old redhead named Pauline,
was sitting on the floor, staring quietly at the veal simmering on the
stove, delighted with the sharp odor of cooking that came from the
frying pan.

Monsieur Marescot again held out his hand to the zinc-worker, when the
latter spoke of the repairs, recalling to his mind a promise he had
made to talk the matter over later on. But the landlord grew angry, he
had never promised anything; besides, it was not usual to do any
repairs to a shop. However, he consented to go over the place,
followed by the Coupeaus and Boche. The little linen-draper had
carried off all his shelves and counters; the empty shop displayed its
blackened ceiling and its cracked wall, on which hung strips of an old
yellow paper. In the sonorous emptiness of the place, there ensued a
heated discussion. Monsieur Marescot exclaimed that it was the
business of shopkeepers to embellish their shops, for a shopkeeper
might wish to have gold put about everywhere, and he, the landlord,
could not put out gold. Then he related that he had spent more than
twenty thousand francs in fitting up his premises in the Rue de la
Paix. Gervaise, with her woman's obstinacy, kept repeating an argument
which she considered unanswerable. He would repaper a lodging, would
he not? Then, why did he not treat the shop the same as a lodging? She
did not ask him for anything else--only to whitewash the ceiling, and
put some fresh paper on the walls.

Boche, all this while, remained dignified and impenetrable; he turned
about and looked up in the air, without expressing an opinion. Coupeau
winked at him in vain; he affected not to wish to take advantage of
his great influence over the landlord. He ended, however, by making a
slight grimace--a little smile accompanied by a nod of the head. Just
then Monsieur Marescot, exasperated, and seemingly very unhappy, and
clutching his fingers like a miser being despoiled of his gold, was
giving way to Gervaise, promising to do the ceiling and repaper the
shop on condition that she paid for half of the paper. And he hurried
away declining to discuss anything further.

Now that Boche was alone with the Coupeaus, the concierge became quite
talkative and slapped them on the shoulders. Well, well, see what they
had gotten. Without his help, they would never have gotten the
concessions. Didn't they notice how the landlord had looked to him out
of the corner of his eye for advice and how he'd made up his mind
suddenly when he saw Boche smile? He confessed to them confidentially
that he was the real boss of the building. It was he who decided who
got eviction notices and who could become tenants. He collected all
the rents and kept them for a couple of weeks in his bureau drawer.

That evening the Coupeaus, to express their gratitude to the Boches,
sent them two bottles of wine as a present.

The following Monday the workmen started doing up the shop. The
purchasing of the paper turned out especially to be a very big affair.
Gervaise wanted a grey paper with blue flowers, so as to enliven and
brighten the walls. Boche offered to take her to the dealers, so that
she might make her own selection. But the landlord had given him
formal instructions not to go beyond the price of fifteen sous the
piece. They were there an hour. The laundress kept looking in despair
at a very pretty chintz pattern costing eighteen sous the piece, and
thought all the other papers hideous. At length the concierge gave in;
he would arrange the matter, and, if necessary, would make out there
was a piece more used than was really the case. So, on her way home,
Gervaise purchased some tarts for Pauline. She did not like being
behindhand--one always gained by behaving nicely to her.

The shop was to be ready in four days. The workmen were there three
weeks. At first it was arranged that they should merely wash the
paint. But this paint, originally maroon, was so dirty and so sad-
looking, that Gervaise allowed herself to be tempted to have the whole
of the frontage painted a light blue with yellow moldings. Then the
repairs seemed as though they would last for ever. Coupeau, as he was
still not working, arrived early each morning to see how things were
going. Boche left the overcoat or trousers on which he was working to
come and supervise. Both of them would stand and watch with their
hands behind their backs, puffing on their pipes.

The painters were very merry fellows who would often desert their work
to stand in the middle of the shop and join the discussion, shaking
their heads for hours, admiring the work already done. The ceiling had
been whitewashed quickly, but the paint on the walls never seemed to
dry in a hurry.

Around nine o'clock the painters would arrive with their paint pots
which they stuck in a corner. They would look around and then
disappear. Perhaps they went to eat breakfast. Sometimes Coupeau would
take everyone for a drink--Boche, the two painters and any of
Coupeau's friends who were nearby. This meant another afternoon
wasted.

Gervaise's patience was thoroughly exhausted, when, suddenly,
everything was finished in two days, the paint varnished, the paper
hung, and the dirt all cleared away. The workmen had finished it off
as though they were playing, whistling away on their ladders, and
singing loud enough to deafen the whole neighborhood.

The moving in took place at once. During the first few days Gervaise
felt as delighted as a child. Whenever she crossed the road on
returning from some errand, she lingered to smile at her home. From a
distance her shop appeared light and gay with its pale blue signboard,
on which the word "Laundress" was painted in big yellow letters,
amidst the dark row of the other frontages. In the window, closed in
behind by little muslin curtains, and hung on either side with blue
paper to show off the whiteness of the linen, some shirts were
displayed, with some women's caps hanging above them on wires. She
thought her shop looked pretty, being the same color as the heavens.

Inside there was more blue; the paper, in imitation of a Pompadour
chintz, represented a trellis overgrown with morning-glories. A huge
table, taking up two-thirds of the room, was her ironing-table. It was
covered with thick blanketing and draped with a strip of cretonne
patterned with blue flower sprays that hid the trestles beneath.

Gervaise was enchanted with her pretty establishment and would often
seat herself on a stool and sigh with contentment, delighted with all
the new equipment. Her first glance always went to the cast-iron stove
where the irons were heated ten at a time, arranged over the heat on
slanting rests. She would kneel down to look into the stove to make
sure the apprentice had not put in too much coke.

The lodging at the back of the shop was quite decent. The Coupeaus
slept in the first room, where they also did the cooking and took
their meals; a door at the back opened on to the courtyard of the
house. Nana's bed was in the right hand room, which was lighted by a
little round window close to the ceiling. As for Etienne, he shared
the left hand room with the dirty clothes, enormous bundles of which
lay about on the floor. However, there was one disadvantage--the
Coupeaus would not admit it at first--but the damp ran down the walls,
and it was impossible to see clearly in the place after three o'clock
in the afternoon.

In the neighborhood the new shop produced a great sensation. The
Coupeaus were accused of going too fast, and making too much fuss.
They had, in fact, spent the five hundred francs lent by the Goujets
in fitting up the shop and in moving, without keeping sufficient to
live upon for a fortnight, as they had intended doing. The morning
that Gervaise took down her shutters for the first time, she had just
six francs in her purse. But that did not worry her, customers began
to arrive, and things seemed promising. A week later on the Saturday,
before going to bed, she remained two hours making calculations on a
piece of paper, and she awoke Coupeau to tell him, with a bright look
on her face, that there were hundreds and thousands of francs to be
made, if they were only careful.

"Ah, well!" said Madame Lorilleux all over the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or,
"my fool of a brother is seeing some funny things! All that was
wanting was that Clump-clump should go about so haughty. It becomes
her well, doesn't it?"

The Lorilleuxs had declared a feud to the death against Gervaise. To
begin with, they had almost died of rage during the time while the
repairs were being done to the shop. If they caught sight of the
painters from a distance, they would walk on the other side of the
way, and go up to their rooms with their teeth set. A blue shop for
that "nobody," it was enough to discourage all honest, hard-working
people! Besides, the second day after the shop opened the apprentice
happened to throw out a bowl of starch just at the moment when Madame
Lorilleux was passing. The zinc-worker's sister caused a great
commotion in the street, accusing her sister-in-law of insulting her
through her employees. This broke off all relations. Now they only
exchanged terrible glares when they encountered each other.

"Yes, she leads a pretty life!" Madame Lorilleux kept saying. "We all
know where the money came from that she paid for her wretched shop!
She borrowed it from the blacksmith; and he springs from a nice family
too! Didn't the father cut his own throat to save the guillotine the
trouble of doing so? Anyhow, there was something disreputable of that
sort!"

She bluntly accused Gervaise of flirting with Goujet. She lied--she
pretended she had surprised them together one night on a seat on the
exterior Boulevards. The thought of this liaison, of pleasures that
her sister-in-law was no doubt enjoying, exasperated her still more,
because of her own ugly woman's strict sense of propriety. Every day
the same cry came from her heart to her lips.

"What does she have, that wretched cripple, for people to fall in love
with her? Why doesn't any one want me?"

She busied herself in endless gossiping among the neighbors. She told
them the whole story. The day the Coupeaus got married she turned up
her nose at her. Oh, she had a keen nose, she could smell in advance
how it would turn out. Then, Clump-clump pretended to be so sweet,
what a hypocrite! She and her husband had only agreed to be Nana's
godparents for the sake of her brother. What a bundle it had cost,
that fancy christening. If Clump-clump were on her deathbed she
wouldn't give her a glass of water, no matter how much she begged.

She didn't want anything to do with such a shameless baggage. Little
Nana would always be welcome when she came up to see her godparents.
The child couldn't be blamed for her mother's sins. But there was no
use trying to tell Coupeau anything. Any real man in his situation
would have beaten his wife and put a stop to it all. All they wanted
was for him to insist on respect for his family. /Mon Dieu/! If she,
Madame Lorilleux, had acted like that, Coupeau wouldn't be so
complacent. He would have stabbed her for sure with his shears.

The Boches, however, who sternly disapproved of quarrels in their
building, said that the Lorilleuxs were in the wrong. The Lorilleuxs
were no doubt respectable persons, quiet, working the whole day long,
and paying their rent regularly. But, really, jealousy had driven them
mad. And they were mean enough to skin an egg, real misers. They were
so stingy that they'd hide their bottle when any one came in, so as
not to have to offer a glass of wine--not regular people at all.

Gervaise had brought over cassis and soda water one day to drink with
the Boches. When Madame Lorilleux went by, she acted out spitting
before the concierge's door. Well, after that when Madame Boches swept
the corridors on Saturdays, she always left a pile of trash before the
Lorilleuxs' door.

"It isn't to be wondered at!" Madame Lorilleux would exclaim, "Clump-
clump's always stuffing them, the gluttons! Ah! they're all alike; but
they had better not annoy me! I'll complain to the landlord. Only
yesterday I saw that sly old Boche chasing after Madame Gaudron's
skirts. Just fancy! A woman of that age, and who has half a dozen
children, too; it's positively disgusting! If I catch them at anything
of the sort again, I'll tell Madame Boche, and she'll give them both a
hiding. It'll be something to laugh at."

Mother Coupeau continued to visit the two houses, agreeing with
everybody and even managing to get asked oftener to dinner, by
complaisantly listening one night to her daughter and the next night
to her daughter-in-law.

However, Madame Lerat did not go to visit the Coupeaus because she had
argued with Gervaise about a Zouave who had cut the nose of his
mistress with a razor. She was on the side of the Zouave, saying it
was evidence of a great passion, but without explaining further her
thought. Then, she had made Madame Lorilleux even more angry by
telling her that Clump-clump had called her "Cow Tail" in front of
fifteen or twenty people. Yes, that's what the Boches and all the
neighbors called her now, "Cow Tail."

Gervaise remained calm and cheerful among all these goings-on. She
often stood by the door of her shop greeting friends who passed by
with a nod and a smile. It was her pleasure to take a moment between
batches of ironing to enjoy the street and take pride in her own
stretch of sidewalk.

She felt that the Rue de la Goutte d'Or was hers, and the neighboring
streets, and the whole neighborhood. As she stood there, with her
blonde hair slightly damp from the heat of the shop, she would look
left and right, taking in the people, the buildings, and the sky. To
the left Rue de la Goutte d'Or was peaceful and almost empty, like a
country town with women idling in their doorways. While, to the right,
only a short distance away, Rue des Poissonniers had a noisy throng of
people and vehicles.

The stretch of gutter before her own shop became very important in her
mind. It was like a wide river which she longed to see neat and clean.
It was a lively river, colored by the dye shop with the most fanciful
of hues which contrasted with the black mud beside it.

Then there were the shops: a large grocery with a display of dried
fruits protected by mesh nets; a shop selling work clothes which had
white tunics and blue smocks hanging before it with arms that waved at
the slightest breeze. Cats were purring on the counters of the fruit
store and the tripe shop. Madame Vigouroux, the coal dealer next door,
returned her greetings. She was a plump, short woman with bright eyes
in a dark face who was always joking with the men while standing at
her doorway. Her shop was decorated in imitation of a rustic chalet.
The neighbors on the other side were a mother and daughter, the
Cudorges. The umbrella sellers kept their door closed and never came
out to visit.

Gervaise always looked across the road, too, through the wide carriage
entrance of the windowless wall opposite her, at the blacksmith's
forge. The courtyard was cluttered with vans and carts. Inscribed on
the wall was the word "Blacksmith."

At the lower end of the wall between the small shops selling scrap
iron and fried potatoes was a watchmaker. He wore a frock coat and was
always very neat. His cuckoo clocks could be heard in chorus against
the background noise of the street and the blacksmith's rhythmic
clanging.

The neighborhood in general thought Gervaise very nice. There was, it
is true, a good deal of scandal related regarding her; but everyone
admired her large eyes, small mouth and beautiful white teeth. In
short she was a pretty blonde, and had it not been for her crippled
leg she might have ranked amongst the comeliest. She was now in her
twenty-eighth year, and had grown considerably plumper. Her fine
features were becoming puffy, and her gestures were assuming a
pleasant indolence.

At times she occasionally seemed to forget herself on the edge of a
chair, whilst she waited for her iron to heat, smiling vaguely and
with an expression of greedy joy upon her face. She was becoming fond
of good living, everybody said so; but that was not a very grave
fault, but rather the contrary. When one earns sufficient to be able
to buy good food, one would be foolish to eat potato parings. All the
more so as she continued to work very hard, slaving to please her
customers, sitting up late at night after the place was closed,
whenever there was anything urgent.

She was lucky as all her neighbors said; everything prospered with
her. She did the washing for all the house--M. Madinier, Mademoiselle
Remanjou, the Boches. She even secured some of the customers of her
old employer, Madame Fauconnier, Parisian ladies living in the Rue du
Faubourg-Poissonniere. As early as the third week she was obliged to
engage two workwomen, Madame Putois and tall Clemence, the girl who
used to live on the sixth floor; counting her apprentice, that little
squint-eyed Augustine, who was as ugly as a beggar's behind, that made
three persons in her employ. Others would certainly have lost their
heads at such a piece of good fortune. It was excusable for her to
slack a little on Monday after drudging all through the week. Besides,
it was necessary to her. She would have had no courage left, and would
have expected to see the shirts iron themselves, if she had not been
able to dress up in some pretty thing.

Gervaise was always so amiable, meek as a lamb, sweet as sugar. There
wasn't any one she disliked except Madame Lorilleux. While she was
enjoying a good meal and coffee, she could be indulgent and forgive
everybody saying: "We have to forgive each other--don't we?--unless we
want to live like savages." Hadn't all her dreams come true? She
remembered her old dream: to have a job, enough bread to eat and a
corner in which to sleep, to bring up her children, not to be beaten,
and to die in her own bed. She had everything she wanted now and more
than she had ever expected. She laughed, thinking of delaying dying in
her own bed as long as possible.

It was to Coupeau especially that Gervaise behaved nicely. Never an
angry word, never a complaint behind her husband's back. The zinc-
worker had at length resumed work; and as the job he was engaged on
was at the other side of Paris, she gave him every morning forty sous
for his luncheon, his glass of wine and his tobacco. Only, two days
out of every six, Coupeau would stop on the way, spend the forty sous
in drink with a friend, and return home to lunch, with some cock-and-
bull story. Once even he did not take the trouble to go far; he
treated himself, My-Boots and three others to a regular feast--snails,
roast meat, and some sealed bottles of wine--at the "Capuchin," on the
Barriere de la Chapelle. Then, as his forty sous were not sufficient,
he had sent the waiter to his wife with the bill and the information
that he was in pawn. She laughed and shrugged her shoulders. Where was
the harm if her old man amused himself a bit? You must give men a long
rein if you want to live peaceably at home. From one word to another,
one soon arrived at blows. /Mon Dieu/! It was easy to understand.
Coupeau still suffered from his leg; besides, he was led astray. He
was obliged to do as the others did, or else he would be thought a
cheap skate. And it was really a matter of no consequence. If he came
home a bit elevated, he went to bed, and two hours afterwards he was
all right again.

It was now the warm time of the year. One June afternoon, a Saturday
when there was a lot of work to get through, Gervaise herself had
piled the coke into the stove, around which ten irons were heating,
whilst a rumbling sound issued from the chimney. At that hour the sun
was shining full on the shop front, and the pavement reflected the
heat waves, causing all sorts of quaint shadows to dance over the
ceiling, and that blaze of light which assumed a bluish tinge from the
color of the paper on the shelves and against the window, was almost
blinding in the intensity with which it shone over the ironing-table,
like a golden dust shaken among the fine linen. The atmosphere was
stifling. The shop door was thrown wide open, but not a breath of air
entered; the clothes which were hung up on brass wires to dry, steamed
and became as stiff as shavings in less than three quarters of an
hour. For some little while past an oppressive silence had reigned in
that furnace-like heat, interrupted only by the smothered sound of the
banging down of the irons on the thick blanket covered with calico.

"Ah, well!" said Gervaise, "it's enough to melt one! We might have to
take off our chemises."

She was sitting on the floor, in front of a basin, starching some
things. Her sleeves were rolled up and her camisole was slipping down
her shoulders. Little curls of golden hair stuck were stuck to her
skin by perspiration. She carefully dipped caps, shirt-fronts, entire
petticoats, and the trimmings of women's drawers into the milky water.
Then she rolled the things up and placed them at the bottom of a
square basket, after dipping her hand in a pail and shaking it over
the portions of the shirts and drawers which she had not starched.

"This basketful's for you, Madame Putois," she said. "Look sharp, now!
It dries at once, and will want doing all over again in an hour."

Madame Putois, a thin little woman of forty-five, was ironing. Though
she was buttoned up in an old chestnut-colored dress, there was not a
drop of perspiration to be seen. She had not even taken her cap off, a
black cap trimmed with green ribbons turned partly yellow. And she
stood perfectly upright in front of the ironing-table, which was too
high for her, sticking out her elbows, and moving her iron with the
jerky evolutions of a puppet. On a sudden she exclaimed:

"Ah, no! Mademoiselle Clemence, you mustn't take your camisole off.
You know I don't like such indecencies. Whilst you're about it, you'd
better show everything. There's already three men over the way
stopping to look."

Tall Clemence called her an old beast between her teeth. She was
suffocating; she might certainly make herself comfortable; everyone
was not gifted with a skin as dry as touchwood. Besides no one could
see anything; and she held up her arms, whilst her opulent bosom
almost ripped her chemise, and her shoulders were bursting through the
straps. At the rate she was going, Clemence was not likely to have any
marrow left in her bones long before she was thirty years old.
Mornings after big parties she was unable to feel the ground she trod
upon, and fell asleep over her work, whilst her head and her stomach
seemed as though stuffed full of rags. But she was kept on all the
same, for no other workwoman could iron a shirt with her style. Shirts
were her specialty.

"This is mine, isn't it?" she declared, tapping her bosom. "And it
doesn't bite; it hurts nobody!"

"Clemence, put your wrapper on again," said Gervaise. "Madame Putois
is right, it isn't decent. People will begin to take my house for what
it isn't."

So tall Clemence dressed herself again, grumbling the while. "/Mon
Dieu!/ There's prudery for you."

And she vented her rage on the apprentice, that squint-eyed Augustine
who was ironing some stockings and handkerchiefs beside her. She
jostled her and pushed her with her elbow; but Augustine who was of a
surly disposition, and slyly spiteful in the way of an animal and a
drudge, spat on the back of the other's dress just out of revenge,
without being seen. Gervaise, during this incident, had commenced a
cap belonging to Madame Boche, which she intended to take great pains
with. She had prepared some boiled starch to make it look new again.
She was gently passing a little iron rounded at both ends over the
inside of the crown of the cap, when a bony-looking woman entered the
shop, her face covered with red blotches and her skirts sopping wet.
It was a washerwoman who employed three assistants at the wash-house
in the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or.

"You've come too soon, Madame Bijard!" cried Gervaise. "I told you to
call this evening. I'm too busy to attend to you now!"

But as the washerwoman began lamenting and fearing that she would not
be able to put all the things to soak that day, she consented to give
her the dirty clothes at once. They went to fetch the bundles in the
left hand room where Etienne slept, and returned with enormous armfuls
which they piled up on the floor at the back of the shop. The sorting
lasted a good half hour. Gervaise made heaps all round her, throwing
the shirts in one, the chemises in another, the handkerchiefs, the
socks, the dish-cloths in others. Whenever she came across anything
belonging to a new customer, she marked it with a cross in red cotton
thread so as to know it again. And from all this dirty linen which
they were throwing about there issued an offensive odor in the warm
atmosphere.

"Oh! La, la. What a stench!" said Clemence, holding her nose.

"Of course there is! If it were clean they wouldn't send it to us,"
quietly explained Gervaise. "It smells as one would expect it to,
that's all! We said fourteen chemises, didn't we, Madame Bijard?
Fifteen, sixteen, seventeen--"

And she continued counting aloud. Used to this kind of thing she
evinced no disgust. She thrust her bare pink arms deep into the piles
of laundry: shirts yellow with grime, towels stiff from dirty dish
water, socks threadbare and eaten away by sweat. The strong odor which
slapped her in the face as she sorted the piles of clothes made her
feel drowsy. She seemed to be intoxicating herself with this stench of
humanity as she sat on the edge of a stool, bending far over, smiling
vaguely, her eyes slightly misty. It was as if her laziness was
started by a kind of smothering caused by the dirty clothes which
poisoned the air in the shop. Just as she was shaking out a child's
dirty diaper, Coupeau came in.

"By Jove!" he stuttered, "what a sun! It shines full on your head!"

The zinc-worker caught hold of the ironing-table to save himself from
falling. It was the first time he had been so drunk. Until then he had
sometimes come home slightly tipsy, but nothing more. This time,
however, he had a black eye, just a friendly slap he had run up
against in a playful moment. His curly hair, already streaked with
grey, must have dusted a corner in some low wineshop, for a cobweb
was hanging to one of his locks over the back of his neck. He was
still as attractive as ever, though his features were rather drawn and
aged, and his under jaw projected more; but he was always lively, as
he would sometimes say, with a complexion to be envied by a duchess.

"I'll just explain it to you," he resumed, addressing Gervaise.

"It was Celery-Root, you know him, the bloke with a wooden leg. Well,
as he was going back to his native place, he wanted to treat us. Oh!
We were all right, if it hadn't been for that devil of a sun. In the
street everybody looks shaky. Really, all the world's drunk!"

And as tall Clemence laughed at his thinking that the people in the
street were drunk, he was himself seized with an intense fit of gaiety
which almost strangled him.

"Look at them! The blessed tipplers! Aren't they funny?" he cried.
"But it's not their fault. It's the sun that's causing it."

All the shop laughed, even Madame Putois, who did not like drunkards.
That squint-eyed Augustine was cackling like a hen, suffocating with
her mouth wide open. Gervaise, however, suspected Coupeau of not
having come straight home, but of having passed an hour with the
Lorilleuxs who were always filling his head with unpleasant ideas.
When he swore he had not been near them she laughed also, full of
indulgence and not even reproaching him with having wasted another
day.

"/Mon Dieu!/ What nonsense he does talk," she murmured. "How does he
manage to say such stupid things?" Then in a maternal tone of voice
she added, "Now go to bed, won't you? You see we're busy; you're in
our way. That makes thirty-two handkerchiefs, Madame Bijard; and two
more, thirty-four."

But Coupeau was not sleepy. He stood there wagging his body from side
to side like the pendulum of a clock and chuckling in an obstinate and
teasing manner. Gervaise, wanting to finish with Madame Bijard, called
to Clemence to count the laundry while she made the list. Tall
Clemence made a dirty remark about every item that she touched. She
commented on the customers' misfortunes and their bedroom adventures.
She had a wash-house joke for every rip or stain that passed through
her hands. Augustine pretended that she didn't understand, but her
ears were wide open. Madame Putois compressed her lips, thinking it a
disgrace to say such things in front of Coupeau. It's not a man's
business to have anything to do with dirty linen. It's just not done
among decent people.

Gervaise, serious and her mind fully occupied with what she was about,
did not seem to notice. As she wrote she gave a glance to each article
as it passed before her, so as to recognize it; and she never made a
mistake; she guessed the owner's name just by the look or the color.
Those napkins belonged to the Goujets, that was evident; they had not
been used to wipe out frying-pans. That pillow-case certainly came
from the Boches on account of the pomatum with which Madame Boche
always smeared her things. There was no need to put your nose close to
the flannel vests of Monsieur Madinier; his skin was so oily that it
clogged up his woolens.

She knew many peculiarities, the cleanliness of some, the ragged
underclothes of neighborhood ladies who appeared on the streets in
silk dresses; how many items each family soiled weekly; the way some
people's garments were always torn at the same spot. Oh, she had many
tales to tell. For instance, the chemises of Mademoiselle Remanjou
provided material for endless comments: they wore out at the top first
because the old maid had bony, sharp shoulders; and they were never
really dirty, proving that you dry up by her age, like a stick of wood
out of which it's hard to squeeze a drop of anything. It was thus that
at every sorting of the dirty linen in the shop they undressed the
whole neighborhood of the Goutte-d'Or.

"Oh, here's something luscious!" cried Clemence, opening another
bundle.

Gervaise, suddenly seized with a great repugnance, drew back.

"Madame Gaudron's bundle?" said she. "I'll no longer wash for her,
I'll find some excuse. No, I'm not more particular than another. I've
handled some most disgusting linen in my time; but really, that lot I
can't stomach. What can the woman do to get her things into such a
state?"

And she requested Clemence to look sharp. But the girl continued her
remarks, thrusting the clothes sullenly about her, with complaints on
the soiled caps she waved like triumphal banners of filth. Meanwhile
the heaps around Gervaise had grown higher. Still seated on the edge
of the stool, she was now disappearing between the petticoats and
chemises. In front of her were the sheets, the table cloths, a
veritable mass of dirtiness.

She seemed even rosier and more languid than usual within this
spreading sea of soiled laundry. She had regained her composure,
forgetting Madame Gaudron's laundry, stirring the various piles of
clothing to make sure there had been no mistake in sorting. Squint-
eyed Augustine had just stuffed the stove so full of coke that its
cast-iron sides were bright red. The sun was shining obliquely on the
window; the shop was in a blaze. Then, Coupeau, whom the great heat
intoxicated all the more, was seized with a sudden fit of tenderness.
He advanced towards Gervaise with open arms and deeply moved.

"You're a good wife," he stammered. "I must kiss you."

But he caught his foot in the garments which barred the way and nearly
fell.

"What a nuisance you are!" said Gervaise without getting angry. "Keep
still, we're nearly done now."

No, he wanted to kiss her. He must do so because he loved her so much.
Whilst he stuttered he tried to get round the heap of petticoats and
stumbled against the pile of chemises; then as he obstinately
persisted his feet caught together and he fell flat, his nose in the
midst of the dish-cloths. Gervaise, beginning to lose her temper
pushed him, saying that he was mixing all the things up. But Clemence
and even Madame Putois maintained that she was wrong. It was very nice
of him after all. He wanted to kiss her. She might very well let
herself be kissed.

"You're lucky, you are, Madame Coupeau," said Madame Bijard, whose
drunkard of a husband, a locksmith, was nearly beating her to death
each evening when he came in. "If my old man was like that when he's
had a drop, it would be a real pleasure!"

Gervaise had calmed down and was already regretting her hastiness. She
helped Coupeau up on his legs again. Then she offered her cheek with a
smile. But the zinc-worker, without caring a button for the other
people being present, seized her bosom.

"It's not for the sake of saying so," he murmured; "but your dirty
linen stinks tremendously! Still, I love you all the same, you know."

"Leave off, you're tickling me," cried she, laughing the louder. "What
a great silly you are! How can you be so absurd?"

He had caught hold of her and would not let her go. She gradually
abandoned herself to him, dizzy from the slight faintness caused by
the heap of clothes and not minding Coupeau's foul-smelling breath.
The long kiss they exchanged on each other's mouths in the midst of
the filth of the laundress's trade was perhaps the first tumble in the
slow downfall of their life together.

Madame Bijard had meanwhile been tying the laundry up into bundles and
talking about her daughter, Eulalie, who at two was as smart as a
grown woman. She could be left by herself; she never cried or played
with matches. Finally Madame Bijard took the laundry away a bundle at
a time, her face splotched with purple and her tall form bent under
the weight.

"This heat is becoming unbearable, we're roasting," said Gervaise,
wiping her face before returning to Madame Boche's cap.

They talked of boxing Augustine's ears when they saw that the stove
was red-hot. The irons, also, were getting in the same condition. She
must have the very devil in her body! One could not turn one's back a
moment without her being up to some of her tricks. Now they would have
to wait a quarter of an hour before they would be able to use their
irons. Gervaise covered the fire with two shovelfuls of cinders. Then
she thought to hang some sheets on the brass wires near the ceiling to
serve as curtains to keep out the sunlight.

Things were now better in the shop. The temperature was still high,
but you could imagine it was cooler. Footsteps could still be heard
outside but you were free to make yourself comfortable. Clemence
removed her camisole again. Coupeau still refused to go to bed, so
they allowed him to stay, but he had to promise to be quiet in a
corner, for they were very busy.

"Whatever has that vermin done with my little iron?" murmured
Gervaise, speaking of Augustine.

They were for ever seeking the little iron, which they found in the
most out-of-the-way places, where the apprentice, so they said, hid it
out of spite. Gervaise could now finish Madame Boche's cap. First she
roughly smoothed the lace, spreading it out with her hand, and then
she straightened it up by light strokes of the iron. It had a very
fancy border consisting of narrow puffs alternating with insertions of
embroidery. She was working on it silently and conscientiously,
ironing the puffs and insertions.

Silence prevailed for a time. Nothing was to be heard except the soft
thud of irons on the ironing pad. On both sides of the huge
rectangular table Gervaise, her two employees, and the apprentice were
bending over, slaving at their tasks with rounded shoulders, their
arms moving incessantly. Each had a flat brick blackened by hot irons
near her. A soup plate filled with clean water was on the middle of
the table with a moistening rag and a small brush soaking in it.

A bouquet of large white lilies bloomed in what had once been a
brandied cherry jar. Its cluster of snowy flowers suggested a corner
of a royal garden. Madame Putois had begun the basket that Gervaise
had brought to her filled with towels, wrappers, cuffs and
underdrawers. Augustine was dawdling with the stockings and
washcloths, gazing into the air, seemingly fascinated by a large fly
that was buzzing around. Clemence had done thirty-four men's shirts so
far that day.

"Always wine, never spirits!" suddenly said the zinc-worker, who felt
the necessity of making this declaration. "Spirits make me drunk, I'll
have none of them."

Clemence took an iron from the stove with her leather holder in which
a piece of sheet iron was inserted, and held it up to her cheek to see
how hot it was. She rubbed it on her brick, wiped it on a piece of rag
hanging from her waist-band and started on her thirty-fifth shirt,
first of all ironing the shoulders and the sleeves.

"Bah! Monsieur Coupeau," said she after a minute or two, "a little
glass of brandy isn't bad. It sets me going. Besides, the sooner
you're merry, the jollier it is. Oh! I don't make any mistake; I know
that I shan't make old bones."

"What a nuisance you are with your funeral ideas!" interrupted Madame
Putois who did not like hearing people talk of anything sad.

Coupeau had arisen and was becoming angry thinking that he had been
accused of drinking brandy. He swore on his own head and on the heads
of his wife and child that there was not a drop of brandy in his
veins. And he went up to Clemence and blew in her face so that she
might smell his breath. Then he began to giggle because her bare
shoulders were right under his nose. He thought maybe he could see
more. Clemence, having folded over the back of the shirt and ironed it
on both sides, was now working on the cuffs and collar. However, as he
was shoving against her, he caused her to make a wrinkle, obliging her
to reach for the brush soaking in the soup plate to smooth it out.

"Madame," said she, "do make him leave off bothering me."

"Leave her alone; it's stupid of you to go on like that," quietly
observed Gervaise. "We're in a hurry, do you hear?"

They were in a hurry, well! What? It was not his fault. He was doing
no harm. He was not touching, he was only looking. Was it no longer
allowed to look at the beautiful things that God had made? All the
same, she had precious fine arms, that artful Clemence! She might
exhibit herself for two sous and nobody would have to regret his
money. The girl allowed him to go on, laughing at these coarse
compliments of a drunken man. And she soon commenced joking with him.
He chuffed her about the shirts. So she was always doing shirts? Why
yes, she practically lived in them. /Mon Dieu!/ She knew them pretty
well. Hundreds and hundreds of them had passed through her hands. Just
about every man in the neighborhood was wearing her handiwork on his
body. Her shoulders were shaking with laughter through all this, but
she managed to continue ironing.

"That's the banter!" said she, laughing harder than ever.

That squint-eyed Augustine almost burst, the joke seemed to her so
funny. The others bullied her. There was a brat for you who laughed at
words she ought not to understand! Clemence handed her her iron; the
apprentice finished up the irons on the stockings and the dish-cloths
when they were not hot enough for the starched things. But she took
hold of this one so clumsily that she made herself a cuff in the form
of a long burn on the wrist. And she sobbed and accused Clemence of
having burnt her on purpose. The latter who had gone to fetch a very
hot iron for the shirt-front consoled her at once by threatening to
iron her two ears if she did not leave off. Then she placed a piece of
flannel under the front and slowly passed the iron over it giving the
starch time to show up and dry. The shirt-front became as stiff and as
shiny as cardboard.

"By golly!" swore Coupeau, who was treading behind her with the
obstinacy of a drunkard.

He raised himself up with a shrill laugh that resembled a pulley in
want of grease. Clemence, leaning heavily over the ironing-table, her
wrists bent in, her elbows sticking out and wide apart was bending her
neck in a last effort; and all her muscles swelled, her shoulders rose
with the slow play of the muscles beating beneath the soft skin, her
breasts heaved, wet with perspiration in the rosy shadow of the half
open chemise. Then Coupeau thrust out his hands, trying to touch her
bare flesh.

"Madame! Madame!" cried Clemence, "do make him leave off! I shall go
away if it continues. I won't be intimated."

Gervaise glanced over just as her husband's hands began to explore
inside the chemise.

"Really, Coupeau, you're too foolish," said she, with a vexed air, as
though she were scolding a child who persisted in eating his jam
without bread. "You must go to bed."

"Yes, go to bed, Monsieur Coupeau; it will be far better," exclaimed
Madame Putois.

"Ah! Well," stuttered he, without ceasing to chuckle, "you're all
precious particular! So one mustn't amuse oneself now? Women, I know
how to handle them; I'll only kiss them, no more. One admires a lady,
you know, and wants to show it. And, besides, when one displays one's
goods, it's that one may make one's choice, isn't it? Why does the
tall blonde show everything she's got? It's not decent."

And turning towards Clemence, he added: "You know, my lovely, you're
wrong to be to very insolent. If it's because there are others here--"

But he was unable to continue. Gervaise very calmly seized hold of him
with one hand, and placed the other on his mouth. He struggled, just
by way of a joke, whilst she pushed him to the back of the shop,
towards the bedroom. He got his mouth free and said that he was
willing to go to bed, but that the tall blonde must come and warm his
feet.

Then Gervaise could be heard taking off his shoes. She removed his
clothes too, bullying him in a motherly way. He burst out laughing
after she had removed his trousers and kicked about, pretending that
she was tickling him. At last she tucked him in carefully like a
child. Was he comfortable now? But he did not answer; he called to
Clemence:

"I say, my lovely, I'm here, and waiting for you!"

When Gervaise went back into the shop, the squint-eyed Augustine was
being properly chastised by Clemence because of a dirty iron that
Madame Putois had used and which had caused her to soil a camisole.
Clemence, in defending herself for not having cleaned her iron, blamed
Augustine, swearing that it wasn't hers, in spite of the spot of
burned starch still clinging to the bottom. The apprentice, outraged
at the injustice, openly spat on the front of Clemence's dress,
earning a slap for her boldness. Now, as Augustine went about cleaning
the iron, she saved up her spit and each time she passed Clemence spat
on her back and laughed to herself.

Gervaise continued with the lace of Madame Boche's cap. In the sudden
calm which ensued, one could hear Coupeau's husky voice issuing from
the depths of the bedroom. He was still jolly, and was laughing to
himself as he uttered bits of phrases.

"How stupid she is, my wife! How stupid of her to put me to bed!
Really, it's too absurd, in the middle of the day, when one isn't
sleepy."

But, all on a sudden, he snored. Then Gervaise gave a sigh of relief,
happy in knowing that he was at length quiet, and sleeping off his
intoxication on two good mattresses. And she spoke out in the silence,
in a slow and continuous voice, without taking her eyes off her work.

"You see, he hasn't his reason, one can't be angry. Were I to be harsh
with him, it would be of no use. I prefer to agree with him and get
him to bed; then, at least, it's over at once and I'm quiet. Besides,
he isn't ill-natured, he loves me very much. You could see that just a
moment ago when he was desperate to give me a kiss. That's quite nice
of him. There are plenty of men, you know, who after drinking a bit
don't come straight home but stay out chasing women. Oh, he may fool
around with the women in the shop, but it doesn't lead to anything.
Clemence, you mustn't feel insulted. You know how it is when a man's
had too much to drink. He could do anything and not even remember it."

She spoke composedly, not at all angry, being quite used to Coupeau's
sprees and not holding them against him. A silence settled down for a
while when she stopped talking. There was a lot of work to get done.
They figured they would have to keep at it until eleven, working as
fast as they could. Now that they were undisturbed, all of them were
pounding away. Bare arms were moving back and forth, showing glimpses
of pink among the whiteness of the laundry.

More coke had been put into the stove and the sunlight slanted in
between the sheets onto the stove. You could see the heat rising up
through the rays of the sun. It became so stifling that Augustine ran
out of spit and was forced to lick her lips. The room smelled of the
heat and of the working women. The white lilies in the jar were
beginning to fade, yet they still exuded a pure and strong perfume.
Coupeau's heavy snores were heard like the regular ticking of a huge
clock, setting the tempo for the heavy labor in the shop.

On the morrow of his carouses, the zinc-worker always had a headache,
a splitting headache which kept him all day with his hair uncombed,
his breath offensive, and his mouth all swollen and askew. He got up
late on those days, not shaking the fleas off till about eight
o'clock; and he would hang about the shop, unable to make up his mind
to start off to his work. It was another day lost. In the morning he
would complain that his legs bent like pieces of thread, and would
call himself a great fool to guzzle to such an extent, as it broke
one's constitution. Then, too, there were a lot of lazy bums who
wouldn't let you go and you'd get to drinking more in spite of
yourself. No, no, no more for him.

After lunch he would always begin to perk up and deny that he had been
really drunk the night before. Maybe just a bit lit up. He was rock
solid and able to drink anything he wanted without even blinking an
eye.

When he had thoroughly badgered the workwomen, Gervaise would give him
twenty sous to clear out. And off he would go to buy his tobacco at
the "Little Civet," in the Rue des Poissonniers, where he generally
took a plum in brandy whenever he met a friend. Then, he spent the
rest of the twenty sous at old Francois's, at the corner of the Rue de
la Goutte-d'Or, where there was a famous wine, quite young, which
tickled your gullet. This was an old-fashioned place with a low
ceiling. There was a smoky room to one side where soup was served. He
would stay there until evening drinking because there was an
understanding that he didn't have to pay right away and they would
never send the bill to his wife. Besides he was a jolly fellow, who
would never do the least harm--a chap who loved a spree sure enough,
and who colored his nose in his turn but in a nice manner, full of
contempt for those pigs of men who have succumbed to alcohol, and whom
one never sees sober! He always went home as gay and as gallant as a
lark.

"Has your lover been?" he would sometimes ask Gervaise by way of
teasing her. "One never sees him now; I must go and rout him out."

The lover was Goujet. He avoided, in fact, calling too often for fear
of being in the way, and also of causing people to talk. Yet he
frequently found a pretext, such as bringing the washing; and he would
pass no end of time on the pavement in front of the shop. There was a
corner right at the back in which he liked to sit, without moving for
hours, and smoke his short pipe. Once every ten days, in the evening
after his dinner, he would venture there and take up his favorite
position. And he was no talker, his mouth almost seemed sewn up, as he
sat with his eyes fixed on Gervaise, and only removed his pipe to
laugh at everything she said. When they were working late on a
Saturday he would stay on, and appeared to amuse himself more than if
he had gone to a theatre.

Sometimes the women stayed in the shop ironing until three in the
morning. A lamp hung from the ceiling and spread a brilliant light
making the linen look like fresh snow. The apprentice would put up the
shop shutters, but since these July nights were scorching hot, the
door would be left open. The later the hour the more casual the women
became with their clothes while trying to be comfortable. The
lamplight flecked their rosy skin with gold specks, especially
Gervaise who was so pleasantly rounded.

On these nights Goujet would be overcome by the heat from the stove
and the odor of linen steaming under the hot irons. He would drift
into a sort of giddiness, his thinking slowed and his eyes obsessed by
these hurrying women as their naked arms moved back and forth, working
far into the night to have the neighborhood's best clothes ready for
Sunday.

Everything around the laundry was slumbering, settled into sleep for
the night. Midnight rang, then one o'clock, then two o'clock. There
were no vehicles or pedestrians. In the dark and deserted street, only
their shop door let out any light. Once in a while, footsteps would be
heard and a man would pass the shop. As he crossed the path of light
he would stretch his neck to look in, startled by the sound of the
thudding irons, and carry with him the quick glimpse of bare-
shouldered laundresses immersed in a rosy mist.

Goujet, seeing that Gervaise did not know what to do with Etienne, and
wishing to deliver him from Coupeau's kicks, had engaged him to go and
blow the bellows at the factory where he worked. The profession of
bolt-maker, if not one to be proud of on account of the dirt of the
forge and of the monotony of constantly hammering on pieces of iron of
a similar kind, was nevertheless a well paid one, at which ten and
even twelve francs a day could be earned. The youngster, who was then
twelve years old, would soon be able to go in for it, if the calling
was to his liking. And Etienne had thus become another link between
the laundress and the blacksmith. The latter would bring the child
home and speak of his good conduct. Everyone laughingly said that
Goujet was smitten with Gervaise. She knew it, and blushed like a
young girl, the flush of modesty coloring her cheeks with the bright
tints of an apple. The poor fellow, he was never any trouble! He never
made a bold gesture or an indelicate remark. You didn't find many men
like him. Gervaise didn't want to admit it, but she derived a great
deal of pleasure from being adored like this. Whenever a problem arose
she thought immediately of the blacksmith and was consoled. There was
never any awkward tension when they were alone together. They just
looked at each other and smiled happily with no need to talk. It was a
very sensible kind of affection.

Towards the end of the summer, Nana quite upset the household. She was
six years old and promised to be a thorough good-for-nothing. So as
not to have her always under her feet her mother took her every
morning to a little school in the Rue Polonceau kept by Mademoiselle
Josse. She fastened her playfellows' dresses together behind, she
filled the school-mistress's snuff-box with ashes, and invented other
tricks much less decent which could not be mentioned. Twice
Mademoiselle Josse expelled her and then took her back again so as not
to lose the six francs a month. Directly lessons were over Nana
avenged herself for having been kept in by making an infernal noise
under the porch and in the courtyard where the ironers, whose ears
could not stand the racket, sent her to play. There she would meet
Pauline, the Boches' daughter, and Victor, the son of Gervaise's old
employer--a big booby of ten who delighted in playing with very little
girls. Madame Fauconnier who had not quarreled with the Coupeaus
would herself send her son. In the house, too, there was an
extraordinary swarm of brats, flights of children who rolled down the
four staircases at all hours of the day and alighted on the pavement
of the courtyard like troops of noisy pillaging sparrows. Madame
Gaudron was responsible for nine of them, all with uncombed hair,
runny noses, hand-me-down clothes, saggy stockings and ripped jackets.
Another woman on the sixth floor had seven of them. This hoard that
only got their faces washed when it rained were in all shapes and
sizes, fat, thin, big and barely out of the cradle.

Nana reigned supreme over this host of urchins; she ordered about
girls twice her own size, and only deigned to relinquish a little of
her power in favor of Pauline and Victor, intimate confidants who
enforced her commands. This precious chit was for ever wanting to play
at being mamma, undressing the smallest ones to dress them again,
insisting on examining the others all over, messing them about and
exercising the capricious despotism of a grown-up person with a
vicious disposition. Under her leadership they got up tricks for which
they should have been well spanked. The troop paddled in the colored
water from the dyer's and emerged from it with legs stained blue or
red as high as the knees; then off it flew to the locksmith's where it
purloined nails and filings and started off again to alight in the
midst of the carpenter's shavings, enormous heaps of shavings, which
delighted it immensely and in which it rolled head over heels exposing
their behinds.

The courtyard was her kingdom. It echoed with the clatter of little
shoes as they stampeded back and forth with piercing cries. On some
days the courtyard was too small for them and the troop would dash
down into the cellar, race up a staircase, run along a corridor, then
dash up another staircase and follow another corridor for hours. They
never got tired of their yelling and clambering.

"Aren't they abominable, those little toads?" cried Madame Boche.
"Really, people can have but very little to do to have time get so
many brats. And yet they complain of having no bread."

Boche said that children pushed up out of poverty like mushrooms out
of manure. All day long his wife was screaming at them and chasing
them with her broom. Finally she had to lock the door of the cellar
when she learned from Pauline that Nana was playing doctor down there
in the dark, viciously finding pleasure in applying remedies to the
others by beating them with sticks.

Well, one afternoon there was a frightful scene. It was bound to have
come sooner or later. Nana had thought of a very funny little game.
She had stolen one of Madame Boche's wooden shoes from outside the
concierge's room. She tied a string to it and began dragging it about
like a cart. Victor on his side had had the idea to fill it with
potato parings. Then a procession was formed. Nana came first dragging
the wooden shoe. Pauline and Victor walked on her right and left. Then
the entire crowd of urchins followed in order, the big ones first, the
little ones next, jostling one another; a baby in long skirts about as
tall as a boot with an old tattered bonnet cocked on one side of its
head, brought up the rear. And the procession chanted something sad
with plenty of ohs! and ahs! Nana had said that they were going to
play at a funeral; the potato parings represented the body. When they
had gone the round of the courtyard, they recommenced. They thought it
immensely amusing.

"What can they be up to?" murmured Madame Boche, who emerged from her
room to see, ever mistrustful and on the alert.

And when she understood: "But it's my shoe!" cried she furiously. "Ah,
the rogues!"

She distributed some smacks, clouted Nana on both cheeks and
administered a kick to Pauline, that great goose who allowed the
others to steal her mother's shoe. It so happened that Gervaise was
filling a bucket at the top. When she beheld Nana, her nose bleeding
and choking with sobs, she almost sprang at the concierge's chignon.
It was not right to hit a child as though it were an ox. One could
have no heart, one must be the lowest of the low if one did so. Madame
Boche naturally replied in a similar strain. When one had a beast of a
girl like that one should keep her locked up. At length Boche himself
appeared in the doorway to call his wife to come in and not to enter
into so many explanations with a filthy thing like her. There was a
regular quarrel.

As a matter of fact things had not gone on very pleasantly between the
Boches and the Coupeaus for a month past. Gervaise, who was of a very
generous nature, was continually bestowing wine, broth, oranges and
slices of cake on the Boches. One night she had taken the remains of
an endive and beetroot salad to the concierge's room, knowing that the
latter would have done anything for such a treat. But on the morrow
she became quite pale with rage on hearing Mademoiselle Remanjou
relate how Madame Boche had thrown the salad away in the presence of
several persons with an air of disgust and under the pretext that she,
thank goodness, was not yet reduced to feeding on things which others
had messed about. From that time Gervaise took no more presents to the
Boches--nothing. Now the Boches seemed to think that Gervaise was
stealing something which was rightfully theirs. Gervaise saw that she
had made a mistake. If she hadn't catered to them so much in the
beginning, they wouldn't have gotten into the habit of expecting it
and might have remained on good terms with her.

Now the concierge began to spread slander about Gervaise. There was a
great fuss with the landlord, Monsieur Marescot, at the October rental
period, because Gervaise was a day late with the rent. Madame Boche
accused her of eating up all her money in fancy dishes. Monsieur
Marescot charged into the laundry demanding to be paid at once. He
didn't even bother to remove his hat. The money was ready and was paid
to him immediately. The Boches had now made up with the Lorilleuxs who
now came and did their guzzling in the concierge's lodge. They assured
each other that they never would have fallen out if it hadn't been for
Clump-clump. She was enough to set mountains to fighting. Ah! the
Boches knew her well now, they could understand how much the
Lorilleuxs must suffer. And whenever she passed beneath the doorway
they all affected to sneer at her.

One day, Gervaise went up to see the Lorilleuxs in spite of this. It
was with respect to mother Coupeau who was then sixty-seven years old.
Mother Coupeau's eyesight was almost completely gone. Her legs too
were no longer what they used to be. She had been obliged to give up
her last cleaning job and now threatened to die of hunger if
assistance were not forthcoming. Gervaise thought it shameful that a
woman of her age, having three children should be thus abandoned by
heaven and earth. And as Coupeau refused to speak to the Lorilleuxs on
the subject saying that she, Gervaise, could very well go and do so,
the latter went up in a fit of indignation with which her heart was
almost bursting.

When she reached their door she entered without knocking. Nothing had
been changed since the night when the Lorilleuxs, at their first
meeting had received her so ungraciously. The same strip of faded
woolen stuff separated the room from the workshop, a lodging like a
gun barrel, and which looked as though it had been built for an eel.
Right at the back Lorilleux, leaning over his bench, was squeezing
together one by one the links of a piece of chain, whilst Madame
Lorilleux, standing in front of the vise was passing a gold wire
through the draw-plate. In the broad daylight the little forge had a
rosy reflection.

"Yes, it's I!" said Gervaise. "I daresay you're surprised to see me as
we're at daggers drawn. But I've come neither for you nor myself you
may be quite sure. It's for mother Coupeau that I've come. Yes, I have
come to see if we're going to let her beg her bread from the charity
of others."

"Ah, well, that's a fine way to burst in upon one!" murmured Madame
Lorilleux. "One must have a rare cheek."

And she turned her back and resumed drawing her gold wire, affecting
to ignore her sister-in-law's presence. But Lorilleux raised his pale
face and cried:

"What's that you say?"

Then, as he had heard perfectly well, he continued:

"More back-bitings, eh? She's nice, mother Coupeau, to go and cry
starvation everywhere! Yet only the day before yesterday she dined
here. We do what we can. We haven't got all the gold of Peru. Only if
she goes about gossiping with others she had better stay with them,
for we don't like spies."

He took up the piece of chain and turned his back also, adding as
though with regret:

"When everyone gives five francs a month, we'll give five francs."

Gervaise had calmed down and felt quite chilled by the wooden looking
faces of the Lorilleux. She had never once set foot in their rooms
without experiencing a certain uneasiness. With her eyes fixed on the
floor, staring at the holes of the wooden grating through which the
waste gold fell she now explained herself in a reasonable manner.
Mother Coupeau had three children; if each one gave five francs it
would only make fifteen francs, and really that was not enough, one
could not live on it; they must at least triple the sum. But Lorilleux
cried out. Where did she think he could steal fifteen francs a month?
It was quite amusing, people thought he was rich simply because he had
gold in his place. He began then to criticize mother Coupeau: she had
to have her morning coffee, she took a sip of brandy now and then, she
was as demanding as if she were rich. /Mon Dieu!/ Sure, everyone liked
the good things of life. But if you've never saved a sou, you had to
do what other folks did and do without. Besides, mother Coupeau wasn't
too old to work. She could see well enough when she was trying to pick
a choice morsel from the platter. She was just an old spendthrift
trying to get others to provide her with comforts. Even had he had the
means, he would have considered it wrong to support any one in
idleness.

Gervaise remained conciliatory, and peaceably argued against all this
bad reasoning. She tried to soften the Lorilleuxs. But the husband
ended by no longer answering her. The wife was now at the forge
scouring a piece of chain in the little, long-handled brass saucepan
full of lye-water. She still affectedly turned her back, as though a
hundred leagues away. And Gervaise continued speaking, watching them
pretending to be absorbed in their labor in the midst of the black
dust of the workshop, their bodies distorted, their clothes patched
and greasy, both become stupidly hardened like old tools in the
pursuit of their narrow mechanical task. Then suddenly anger again got
the better of her and she exclaimed:

"Very well, I'd rather it was so; keep your money! I'll give mother
Coupeau a home, do you hear? I picked up a cat the other evening, so I
can at least do the same for your mother. And she shall be in want of
nothing; she shall have her coffee and her drop of brandy! Good
heavens! what a vile family!"

At these words Madame Lorilleux turned round. She brandished the
saucepan as though she was about to throw the lye-water in her sister-
in-law's face. She stammered with rage:

"Be off, or I shall do you an injury! And don't count on the five
francs because I won't give a radish! No, not a radish! Ah well, yes,
five francs! Mother would be your servant and you would enjoy yourself
with my five francs! If she goes to live with you, tell her this, she
may croak, I won't even send her a glass of water. Now off you go!
Clear out!"

"What a monster of a woman!" said Gervaise violently slamming the
door.

On the morrow she brought mother Coupeau to live with her, putting her
bed in the inner room where Nana slept. The moving did not take long,
for all the furniture mother Coupeau had was her bed, an ancient
walnut wardrobe which was put in the dirty-clothes room, a table, and
two chairs. They sold the table and had the chairs recaned. From the
very first the old lady took over the sweeping. She washed the dishes
and made herself useful, happy to have settled her problem.

The Lorilleux were furious enough to explode, especially since Madame
Lerat was now back on good terms with the Coupeaus. One day the two
sisters, the flower-maker and the chainmaker came to blows about
Gervaise because Madame Lerat dared to express approval of the way she
was taking care of their mother. When she noticed how this upset the
other, she went on to remark that Gervaise had magnificent eyes, eyes
warm enough to set paper on fire. The two of them commenced slapping
each other and swore they never would see each other again. Nowadays
Madame Lerat often spent her evenings in the shop, laughing to herself
at Clemence's spicy remarks.

Three years passed by. There were frequent quarrels and
reconciliations. Gervaise did not care a straw for the Lorilleux, the
Boches and all the others who were not of her way of thinking. If they
did not like it, they could forget it. She earned what she wished,
that was her principal concern. The people of the neighborhood had
ended by greatly esteeming her, for one did not find many customers so
kind as she was, paying punctually, never caviling or higgling. She
bought her bread of Madame Coudeloup, in the Rue des Poissonniers; her
meat of stout Charles, a butcher in the Rue Polonceau; her groceries
at Lehongre's, in the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or, almost opposite her own
shop. Francois, the wine merchant at the corner of the street,
supplied her with wine in baskets of fifty bottles. Her neighbor
Vigouroux, whose wife's hips must have been black and blue, the men
pinched her so much, sold coke to her at the same price as the gas
company. And, in all truth, her tradespeople served her faithfully,
knowing that there was everything to gain by treating her well.

Besides, whenever she went out around the neighborhood, she was
greeted everywhere. She felt quite at home. Sometimes she put off
doing a laundry job just to enjoy being outdoors among her good
friends. On days when she was too rushed to do her own cooking and had
to go out to buy something already cooked, she would stop to gossip
with her arms full of bowls. The neighbor she respected the most was
still the watchmaker. Often she would cross the street to greet him in
his tiny cupboard of a shop, taking pleasure in the gaiety of the
little cuckoo clocks with their pendulums ticking away the hours in
chorus.



                             CHAPTER VI.

One afternoon in the autumn Gervaise, who had been taking some washing
home to a customer in the Rue des Portes-Blanches, found herself at
the bottom of the Rue des Poissonniers just as the day was declining.
It had rained in the morning, the weather was very mild and an odor
rose from the greasy pavement; and the laundress, burdened with her
big basket, was rather out of breath, slow of step, and inclined to
take her ease as she ascended the street with the vague preoccupation
of a longing increased by her weariness. She would have liked to have
had something to eat. Then, on raising her eyes she beheld the name of
the Rue Marcadet, and she suddenly had the idea of going to see Goujet
at his forge. He had no end of times told her to look in any day she
was curious to see how iron was wrought. Besides in the presence of
other workmen she would ask for Etienne, and make believe that she had
merely called for the youngster.

The factory was somewhere on this end of the Rue Marcadet, but she
didn't know exactly where and street numbers were often lacking on
those ramshackle buildings separated by vacant lots. She wouldn't have
lived on this street for all the gold in the world. It was a wide
street, but dirty, black with soot from factories, with holes in the
pavement and deep ruts filled with stagnant water. On both sides were
rows of sheds, workshops with beams and brickwork exposed so that they
seemed unfinished, a messy collection of masonry. Beside them were
dubious lodging houses and even more dubious taverns. All she could
recall was that the bolt factory was next to a yard full of scrap iron
and rags, a sort of open sewer spread over the ground, storing
merchandise worth hundreds of thousands of francs, according to
Goujet.

The street was filled with a noisy racket. Exhaust pipes on roofs
puffed out violent jets of steam; an automatic sawmill added a
rhythmic screeching; a button factory shook the ground with the
rumbling of its machines. She was looking up toward the Montmartre
height, hesitant, uncertain whether to continue, when a gust of wind
blew down a mass of sooty smoke that covered the entire street. She
closed her eyes and held her breath. At that moment she heard the
sound of hammers in cadence. Without realizing it, she had arrived
directly in front of the bolt factory which she now recognized by the
vacant lot beside it full of piles of scrap iron and old rags.

She still hesitated, not knowing where to enter. A broken fence opened
a passage which seemed to lead through the heaps of rubbish from some
buildings recently pulled down. Two planks had been thrown across a
large puddle of muddy water that barred the way. She ended by
venturing along them, turned to the left and found herself lost in the
depths of a strange forest of old carts, standing on end with their
shafts in the air, and of hovels in ruins, the wood-work of which was
still standing. Toward the back, stabbing through the half-light of
sundown, a flame gleamed red. The clamor of the hammers had ceased.
She was advancing carefully when a workman, his face blackened with
coal-dust and wearing a goatee passed near her, casting a side-glance
with his pale eyes.

"Sir," asked she, "it's here is it not that a boy named Etienne works?
He's my son."

"Etienne, Etienne," repeated the workman in a hoarse voice as he
twisted himself about. "Etienne; no I don't know him."

An alcoholic reek like that from old brandy casks issued from his
mouth. Meeting a woman in this dark corner seemed to be giving the
fellow ideas, and so Gervaise drew back saying:

"But yet it's here that Monsieur Goujet works, isn't it?"

"Ah! Goujet, yes!" said the workman; "I know Goujet! If you come for
Goujet, go right to the end."

And turning round he called out at the top of his voice, which had a
sound of cracked brass:

"I say Golden-Mug, here's a lady wants you!"

But a clanging of iron drowned the cry! Gervaise went to the end. She
reached a door and stretching out her neck looked in. At first she
could distinguish nothing. The forge had died down, but there was
still a little glow which held back the advancing shadows from its
corner. Great shadows seemed to float in the air. At times black
shapes passed before the fire, shutting off this last bit of
brightness, silhouettes of men so strangely magnified that their arms
and legs were indistinct. Gervaise, not daring to venture in, called
from the doorway in a faint voice:

"Monsieur Goujet! Monsieur Goujet!"

Suddenly all became lighted up. Beneath the puff of the bellows a jet
of white flame had ascended and the whole interior of the shed could
be seen, walled in by wooden planks, with openings roughly plastered
over, and brick walls reinforcing the corners. Coal-ash had painted
the whole expanse a sooty grey. Spider webs hung from the beams like
rags hung up to dry, heavy with the accumulated dust of years. On
shelves along the walls, or hanging from nails, or tossed into
corners, she saw rusty iron, battered implements and huge tools. The
white flame flared higher, like an explosion of dazzling sunlight
revealing the trampled dirt underfoot, where the polished steel of
four anvils fixed on blocks took on a reflection of silver sprinkled
with gold.

Then Gervaise recognized Goujet in front of the forge by his beautiful
yellow beard. Etienne was blowing the bellows. Two other workmen were
there, but she only beheld Goujet and walked forward and stood before
him.

"Why it's Madame Gervaise!" he exclaimed with a bright look on his
face. "What a pleasant surprise."

But as his comrades appeared to be rather amused, he pushed Etienne
towards his mother and resumed:

"You've come to see the youngster. He behaves himself well, he's
beginning to get some strength in his wrists."

"Well!" she said, "it isn't easy to find your way here. I thought I
was going to the end of the world."

After telling about her journey, she asked why no one in the shop knew
Etienne's name. Goujet laughed and explained to her that everybody
called him "Little Zouzou" because he had his hair cut short like that
of a Zouave. While they were talking together Etienne stopped working
the bellows and the flame of the forge dwindled to a rosy glow amid
the gathering darkness. Touched by the presence of this smiling young
woman, the blacksmith stood gazing at her.

Then, as neither continued speaking, he seemed to recollect and broke
the silence:

"Excuse me, Madame Gervaise, I've something that has to be finished.
You'll stay, won't you? You're not in anybody's way."

She remained. Etienne returned to the bellows. The forge was soon
ablaze again with a cloud of sparks; the more so as the youngster,
wanting to show his mother what he could do, was making the bellows
blow a regular hurricane. Goujet, standing up watching a bar of iron
heating, was waiting with the tongs in his hand. The bright glare
illuminated him without a shadow--sleeves rolled back, shirt neck
open, bare arms and chest. When the bar was at white heat he seized it
with the tongs and cut it with a hammer on the anvil, in pieces of
equal length, as though he had been gently breaking pieces of glass.
Then he put the pieces back into the fire, from which he took them one
by one to work them into shape. He was forging hexagonal rivets. He
placed each piece in a tool-hole of the anvil, bent down the iron that
was to form the head, flattened the six sides and threw the finished
rivet still red-hot on to the black earth, where its bright light
gradually died out; and this with a continuous hammering, wielding in
his right hand a hammer weighing five pounds, completing a detail at
every blow, turning and working the iron with such dexterity that he
was able to talk to and look at those about him. The anvil had a
silvery ring. Without a drop of perspiration, quite at his ease, he
struck in a good-natured sort of a way, not appearing to exert himself
more than on the evenings when he cut out pictures at home.

"Oh! these are little rivets of twenty millimetres," said he in reply
to Gervaise's questions. "A fellow can do his three hundred a day. But
it requires practice, for one's arm soon grows weary."

And when she asked him if his wrist did not feel stiff at the end of
the day he laughed aloud. Did she think him a young lady? His wrist
had had plenty of drudgery for fifteen years past; it was now as
strong as the iron implements it had been so long in contact with. She
was right though; a gentleman who had never forged a rivet or a bolt,
and who would try to show off with his five pound hammer, would find
himself precious stiff in the course of a couple of hours. It did not
seem much, but a few years of it often did for some very strong
fellows. During this conversation the other workmen were also
hammering away all together. Their tall shadows danced about in the
light, the red flashes of the iron that the fire traversed, the gloomy
recesses, clouds of sparks darted out from beneath the hammers and
shone like suns on a level with the anvils. And Gervaise, feeling
happy and interested in the movement round the forge, did not think of
leaving. She was going a long way round to get nearer to Etienne
without having her hands burnt, when she saw the dirty and bearded
workman, whom she had spoken to outside, enter.

"So you've found him, madame?" asked he in his drunken bantering way.
"You know, Golden-Mug, it's I who told madame where to find you."

He was called Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, the brick
of bricks, a dab hand at bolt forging, who wetted his iron every day
with a pint and a half of brandy. He had gone out to have a drop,
because he felt he wanted greasing to make him last till six o'clock.
When he learnt that Little Zouzou's real name was Etienne, he thought
it very funny; and he showed his black teeth as he laughed. Then he
recognized Gervaise. Only the day before he had had a glass of wine
with Coupeau. You could speak to Coupeau about Salted-Mouth, otherwise
Drink-without-Thirst; he would at once say: "He's a jolly dog!" Ah!
that joker Coupeau! He was one of the right sort; he stood treat
oftener than his turn.

"I'm awfully glad to know you're his missus," added he.

"He deserves to have a pretty wife. Eh, Golden-Mug, madame is a fine
woman, isn't she?"

He was becoming quite gallant, sidling up towards the laundress, who
took hold of her basket and held it in front of her so as to keep him
at a distance. Goujet, annoyed and seeing that his comrade was joking
because of his friendship for Gervaise, called out to him:

"I say, lazybones, what about the forty millimetre bolts? Do you think
you're equal to them now that you've got your gullet full, you
confounded guzzler?"

The blacksmith was alluding to an order for big bolts which
necessitated two beaters at the anvil.

"I'm ready to start at this moment, big baby!" replied Salted-Mouth,
otherwise Drink-without-Thirst. "It sucks it's thumb and thinks itself
a man. In spite of your size I'm equal to you!"

"Yes, that's it, at once. Look sharp and off we go!"

"Right you are, my boy!"

They taunted each other, stimulated by Gervaise's presence. Goujet
placed the pieces of iron that had been cut beforehand in the fire,
then he fixed a tool-hole of large bore on an anvil. His comrade had
taken from against the wall two sledge-hammers weighing twenty pounds
each, the two big sisters of the factory whom the workers called
Fifine and Dedele. And he continued to brag, talking of a half-gross
of rivets which he had forged for the Dunkirk lighthouse, regular
jewels, things to be put in a museum, they were so daintily finished
off. Hang it all, no! he did not fear competition; before meeting with
another chap like him, you might search every factory in the capital.
They were going to have a laugh; they would see what they would see.

"Madame will be judge," said he, turning towards the young woman.

"Enough chattering," cried Goujet. "Now then, Zouzou, show your
muscle! It's not hot enough, my lad."

But Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, asked: "So we strike
together?"

"Not a bit of it! each his own bolt, my friend!"

This statement operated as a damper, and Goujet's comrade, on hearing
it, remained speechless, in spite of his boasting. Bolts of forty
millimetres fashioned by one man had never before been seen; the more
so as the bolts were to be round-headed, a work of great difficulty, a
real masterpiece to achieve.

The three other workmen came over, leaving their jobs, to watch. A
tall, lean one wagered a bottle of wine that Goujet would be beaten.
Meanwhile the two blacksmiths had chosen their sledge hammers with
eyes closed, because Fifine weighed a half pound more than Dedele.
Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, had the good luck to put
his hand on Dedele; Fifine fell to Golden-Mug.

While waiting for the iron to get hot enough, Salted-Mouth, otherwise
Drink-without-Thirst, again showing off, struck a pose before the
anvil while casting side glances toward Gervaise. He planted himself
solidly, tapping his feet impatiently like a man ready for a fight,
throwing all his strength into practice swings with Dedele. /Mon
Dieu!/ He was good at this; he could have flattened the Vendome column
like a pancake.

"Now then, off you go!" said Goujet, placing one of the pieces of
iron, as thick as a girl's wrist, in the tool-hole.

Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, leant back, and swung
Dedele round with both hands. Short and lean, with his goatee
bristling, and with his wolf-like eyes glaring beneath his unkempt
hair, he seemed to snap at each swing of the hammer, springing up from
the ground as though carried away by the force he put into the blow.
He was a fierce one, who fought with the iron, annoyed at finding it
so hard, and he even gave a grunt whenever he thought he had planted a
fierce stroke. Perhaps brandy did weaken other people's arms, but he
needed brandy in his veins, instead of blood. The drop he had taken a
little while before had made his carcass as warm as a boiler; he felt
he had the power of a steam-engine within him. And the iron seemed to
be afraid of him this time; he flattened it more easily than if it had
been a quid of tobacco. And it was a sight to see how Dedele waltzed!
She cut such capers, with her tootsies in the air, just like a little
dancer at the Elysee Montmartre, who exhibits her fine underclothes;
for it would never do to dawdle, iron is so deceitful, it cools at
once, just to spite the hammer. With thirty blows, Salted-Mouth,
otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, had fashioned the head of his bolt.
But he panted, his eyes were half out of his head, and got into a
great rage as he felt his arms growing tired. Then, carried away by
wrath, jumping about and yelling, he gave two more blows, just out of
revenge for his trouble. When he took the bolt from the hole, it was
deformed, its head being askew like a hunchback's.

"Come now! Isn't that quickly beaten into shape?" said he all the
same, with his self-confidence, as he presented his work to Gervaise.

"I'm no judge, sir," replied the laundress, reservedly.

But she saw plainly enough the marks of Dedele's last two kicks on the
bolt, and she was very pleased. She bit her lips so as not to laugh,
for now Goujet had every chance of winning.

It was now Golden-Mug's turn. Before commencing, he gave the laundress
a look full of confident tenderness. Then he did not hurry himself. He
measured his distance, and swung the hammer from on high with all his
might and at regular intervals. He had the classic style, accurate,
evenly balanced, and supple. Fifine, in his hands, did not cut capers,
like at a dance-hall, but made steady, certain progress; she rose and
fell in cadence, like a lady of quality solemnly leading some ancient
minuet.

There was no brandy in Golden-Mug's veins, only blood, throbbing
powerfully even into Fifine and controlling the job. That stalwart
fellow! What a magnificent man he was at work. The high flame of the
forge shone full on his face. His whole face seemed golden indeed with
his short hair curling over his forehead and his splendid yellow
beard. His neck was as straight as a column and his immense chest was
wide enough for a woman to sleep across it. His shoulders and
sculptured arms seemed to have been copied from a giant's statue in
some museum. You could see his muscles swelling, mountains of flesh
rippling and hardening under the skin; his shoulders, his chest, his
neck expanded; he seemed to shed light about him, becoming beautiful
and all-powerful like a kindly god.

He had now swung Fifine twenty times, his eyes always fixed on the
iron, drawing a deep breath with each blow, yet showing only two great
drops of sweat trickling down from his temples. He counted: "Twenty-
one, twenty-two, twenty-three--" Calmly Fifine continued, like a noble
lady dancing.

"What a show-off!" jeeringly murmured Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-
without-Thirst.

Gervaise, standing opposite Goujet, looked at him with an affectionate
smile. /Mon Dieu!/ What fools men are! Here these two men were,
pounding on their bolts to pay court to her. She understood it. They
were battling with hammer blows, like two big red roosters vying for
the favors of a little white hen. Sometimes the human heart has
fantastic ways of expressing itself. This thundering of Dedele and
Fifine upon the anvil was for her, this forge roaring and overflowing
was for her. They were forging their love before her, battling over
her.

To be honest, she rather enjoyed it. All women are happy to receive
compliments. The mighty blows of Golden-Mug found echoes in her heart;
they rang within her, a crystal-clear music in time with the throbbing
of her pulse. She had the feeling that this hammering was driving
something deep inside of her, something solid, something hard as the
iron of the bolt.

She had no doubt Goujet would win. Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-
without-Thirst, was much too ugly in his dirty tunic, jumping around
like a monkey that had escaped from a zoo. She waited, blushing red,
happy that the heat could explain the blush.

Goujet was still counting.

"And twenty-eight!" cried he at length, laying the hammer on the
ground. "It's finished; you can look."

The head of the bolt was clean, polished, and without a flaw, regular
goldsmith's work, with the roundness of a marble cast in a mold. The
other men looked at it and nodded their heads; there was no denying it
was lovely enough to be worshipped. Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-
without-Thirst, tried indeed to chuff; but it was no use, and ended by
returning to his anvil, with his nose put out of joint. Gervaise had
squeezed up against Goujet, as though to get a better view. Etienne
having let go the bellows, the forge was once more becoming enveloped
in shadow, like a brilliant red sunset suddenly giving way to black
night. And the blacksmith and the laundress experienced a sweet
pleasure in feeling this gloom surround them in that shed black with
soot and filings, and where an odor of old iron prevailed. They could
not have thought themselves more alone in the Bois de Vincennes had
they met there in the depths of some copse. He took her hand as though
he had conquered her.

Outside, they scarcely exchanged a word. All he could find to say was
that she might have taken Etienne away with her, had it not been that
there was still another half-hour's work to get through. When she
started away he called her back, wanting a few more minutes with her.

"Come along. You haven't seen all the place. It's quite interesting."

He led her to another shed where the owner was installing a new
machine. She hesitated in the doorway, oppressed by an instinctive
dread. The great hall was vibrating from the machines and black
shadows filled the air. He reassured her with a smile, swearing that
there was nothing to fear, only she should be careful not to let her
skirts get caught in any of the gears. He went first and she followed
into the deafening hubbub of whistling, amid clouds of steam peopled
by human shadows moving busily.

The passages were very narrow and there were obstacles to step over,
holes to avoid, passing carts to move back from. She couldn't
distinguish anything clearly or hear what Goujet was saying.

Gervaise looked up and stopped to stare at the leather belts hanging
from the roof in a gigantic spider web, each strip ceaselessly
revolving. The steam engine that drove them was hidden behind a low
brick wall so that the belts seemed to be moving by themselves. She
stumbled and almost fell while looking up.

Goujet raised his voice with explanations. There were the tapping
machines operated by women, which put threads on bolts and nuts. Their
steel gears were shining with oil. She could follow the entire
process. She nodded her head and smiled.

She was still a little tense, however, feeling uneasy at being so
small among these rough metalworkers. She jumped back more than once,
her blood suddenly chilled by the dull thud of a machine.

Goujet had stopped before one of the rivet machines. He stood there
brooding, his head lowered, his gaze fixed. This machine forged forty
millimetre rivets with the calm ease of a giant. Nothing could be
simpler. The stoker took the iron shank from the furnace; the striker
put it into the socket, where a continuous stream of water cooled it
to prevent softening of the steel. The press descended and the bolt
flew out onto the ground, its head as round as though cast in a mold.
Every twelve hours this machine made hundreds of kilograms of bolts!

Goujet was not a mean person, but there were moments when he wanted to
take Fifine and smash this machine to bits because he was angry to see
that its arms were stronger than his own. He reasoned with himself,
telling himself that human flesh cannot compete with steel. But he was
still deeply hurt. The day would come when machinery would destroy the
skilled worker. Their day's pay had already fallen from twelve francs
to nine francs. There was talk of cutting it again. He stared at it,
frowning, for three minutes without saying a word. His yellow beard
seemed to bristle defiantly. Then, gradually an expression of
resignation came over his face and he turned toward Gervaise who was
clinging tightly to him and said with a sad smile:

"Well! That machine would certainly win a contest. But perhaps it will
be for the good of mankind in the long run."

Gervaise didn't care a bit about the welfare of mankind. Smiling, she
said to Goujet:

"I like yours better, because they show the hand of an artist."

Hearing this gave him great happiness because he had been afraid that
she might be scornful of him after seeing the machines. /Mon Dieu!/ He
might be stronger than Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-without-Thirst,
but the machines were stronger yet. When Gervaise finally took her
leave, Goujet was so happy that he almost crushed her with a hug.

The laundress went every Saturday to the Goujets to deliver their
washing. They still lived in the little house in the Rue Neuve de la
Goutte-d'Or. During the first year she had regularly repaid them
twenty francs a month; so as not to jumble up the accounts, the
washing-book was only made up at the end of each month, and then she
added to the amount whatever sum was necessary to make the twenty
francs, for the Goujets' washing rarely came to more than seven or
eight francs during that time. She had therefore paid off nearly half
the sum owing, when one quarter day, not knowing what to do, some of
her customers not having kept their promises, she had been obliged to
go to the Goujets and borrow from them sufficient for her rent. On two
other occasions she had also applied to them for the money to pay her
workwomen, so that the debt had increased again to four hundred and
twenty-five francs. Now, she no longer gave a halfpenny; she worked
off the amount solely by the washing. It was not that she worked less,
or that her business was not so prosperous. But something was going
wrong in her home; the money seemed to melt away, and she was glad
when she was able to make both ends meet. /Mon Dieu!/ What's the use
of complaining as long as one gets by. She was putting on weight and
this caused her to become a bit lazy. She no longer had the energy
that she had in the past.  Oh well, there was always something coming
in.

Madame Goujet felt a motherly concern for Gervaise and sometimes
reprimanded her. This wasn't due to the money owed but because she
liked her and didn't want to see her get into difficulties. She never
mentioned the debt. In short, she behaved with the utmost delicacy.

The morrow of Gervaise's visit to the forge happened to be the last
Saturday of the month. When she reached the Goujets, where she made a
point of going herself, her basket had so weighed on her arms that she
was quite two minutes before she could get her breath. One would
hardly believe how heavy clothes are, especially when there are sheets
among them.

"Are you sure you've brought everything?" asked Madame Goujet.

She was very strict on that point. She insisted on having her washing
brought home without a single article being kept back for the sake of
order, as she said. She also required the laundress always to come on
the day arranged and at the same hour; in that way there was no time
wasted.

"Oh! yes, everything is here," replied Gervaise smiling. "You know I
never leave anything behind."

"That's true," admitted Madame Goujet; "you've got into many bad
habits but you're still free of that one."

And while the laundress emptied her basket, laying the linen on the
bed, the old woman praised her; she never burnt the things nor tore
them like so many others did, neither did she pull the buttons off
with the iron; only she used too much blue and made the shirt-fronts
too stiff with starch.

"Just look, it's like cardboard," continued she, making one crackle
between her fingers. "My son does not complain, but it cuts his neck.
To-morrow his neck will be all scratched when we return from
Vincennes."

"No, don't say that!" exclaimed Gervaise, quite grieved. "To look
nice, shirts must be rather stiff, otherwise it's as though one had a
rag on one's body. You should just see what the gentlemen wear. I do
all your things myself. The workwomen never touch them and I assure
you I take great pains. I would, if necessary, do everything over a
dozen times, because it's for you, you know."

She slightly blushed as she stammered out the last words. She was
afraid of showing the great pleasure she took in ironing Goujet's
shirts. She certainly had no wicked thoughts, but she was none the
less a little bit ashamed.

"Oh! I'm not complaining of your work; I know it's perfection," said
Madame Goujet. "For instance, you've done this cap splendidly, only
you could bring out the embroidery like that. And the flutings are all
so even. Oh! I recognize your hand at once. When you give even a dish-
cloth to one of your workwomen I detect it at once. In future, use a
little less starch, that's all! Goujet does not care to look like a
stylish gentleman."

She had taken out her notebook and was crossing off the various items.
Everything was in order. She noticed that Gervaise was charging six
sous for each bonnet. She protested, but had to agree that it was in
line with present prices. Men's shirts were five sous, women's
underdrawers four sous, pillow-cases a sou and a half, and aprons one
sou. No, the prices weren't high. Some laundresses charged a sou more
for each item.

Gervaise was now calling out the soiled clothes, as she packed them in
her basket, for Madame Goujet to list. Then she lingered on,
embarrassed by a request which she wished to make.

"Madame Goujet," she said at length, "if it does not inconvenience
you, I would like to take the money for the month's washing."

It so happened that that month was a very heavy one, the account they
had made up together amounting to ten francs, seven sous. Madame
Goujet looked at her a moment in a serious manner, then she replied:

"My child, it shall be as you wish. I will not refuse you the money as
you are in need of it. Only it's scarcely the way to pay off your
debt; I say that for your sake, you know. Really now, you should be
careful."

Gervaise received the lecture with bowed head and stammering excuses.
The ten francs were to make up the amount of a bill she had given her
coke merchant. But on hearing the word "bill," Madame Goujet became
severer still. She gave herself as an example; she had reduced her
expenditure ever since Goujet's wages had been lowered from twelve to
nine francs a day. When one was wanting in wisdom whilst young, one
dies of hunger in one's old age. But she held back and didn't tell
Gervaise that she gave her their laundry only in order to help her pay
off the debt. Before that she had done all her own washing, and she
would have to do it herself again if the laundry continued taking so
much cash out of her pocket. Gervaise spoke her thanks and left
quickly as soon as she had received the ten francs seven sous. Outside
on the landing she was so relieved she wanted to dance. She was
becoming used to the annoying, unpleasant difficulties caused by a
shortage of money and preferred to remember not the embarrassment but
the joy in escaping from them.

It was also on that Saturday that Gervaise met with a rather strange
adventure as she descended the Goujets' staircase. She was obliged to
stand up close against the stair-rail with her basket to make way for
a tall bare-headed woman who was coming up, carrying in her hand a
very fresh mackerel, with bloody gills, in a piece of paper. She
recognized Virginie, the girl whose face she had slapped at the wash-
house. They looked each other full in the face. Gervaise shut her
eyes. She thought for a moment that she was going to be hit in the
face with the fish. But no, Virginie even smiled slightly. Then, as
her basket was blocking the staircase, the laundress wished to show
how polite she, too, could be.

"I beg your pardon," she said.

"You are completely excused," replied the tall brunette.

And they remained conversing together on the stairs, reconciled at
once without having ventured on a single allusion to the past.
Virginie, then twenty-nine years old, had become a superb woman of
strapping proportions, her face, however, looking rather long between
her two plaits of jet black hair. She at once began to relate her
history just to show off. She had a husband now; she had married in
the spring an ex-journeyman cabinetmaker, who recently left the army,
and who had applied to be admitted into the police, because a post of
that kind is more to be depended upon and more respectable. She had
been out to buy the mackerel for him.

"He adores mackerel," said she. "We must spoil them, those naughty
men, mustn't we? But come up. You shall see our home. We are standing
in a draught here."

After Gervaise had told of her own marriage and that she had formerly
occupied the very apartment Virginie now had, Virginie urged her even
more strongly to come up since it is always nice to visit a spot where
one had been happy.

Virginie had lived for five years on the Left Bank at Gros-Caillou.
That was where she had met her husband while he was still in the army.
But she got tired of it, and wanted to come back to the Goutte-d'Or
neighborhood where she knew everyone. She had only been living in the
rooms opposite the Goujets for two weeks. Oh! everything was still a
mess, but they were slowly getting it in order.

Then, still on the staircase, they finally told each other their
names.

"Madame Coupeau."

"Madame Poisson."

And from that time forth, they called each other on every possible
occasion Madame Poisson and Madame Coupeau, solely for the pleasure of
being madame, they who in former days had been acquainted when
occupying rather questionable positions. However, Gervaise felt rather
mistrustful at heart. Perhaps the tall brunette had made it up the
better to avenge herself for the beating at the wash-house by
concocting some plan worthy of a spiteful hypocritical creature.
Gervaise determined to be upon her guard. For the time being, as
Virginie behaved so nicely, she would be nice also.

In the room upstairs, Poisson, the husband, a man of thirty-five, with
a cadaverous-looking countenance and carroty moustaches and beard, was
seated working at a table near the window. He was making little boxes.
His only tools were a knife, a tiny saw the size of a nail file and a
pot of glue. He was using wood from old cigar boxes, thin boards of
unfinished mahogany upon which he executed fretwork and embellishments
of extraordinary delicacy. All year long he worked at making the same
size boxes, only varying them occasionally by inlay work, new designs
for the cover, or putting compartments inside. He did not sell his
work, he distributed it in presents to persons of his acquaintance. It
was for his own amusement, a way of occupying his time while waiting
for his appointment to the police force. It was all that remained with
him from his former occupation of cabinetmaking.

Poisson rose from his seat and politely bowed to Gervaise, when his
wife introduced her as an old friend. But he was no talker; he at once
returned to his little saw. From time to time he merely glanced in the
direction of the mackerel placed on the corner of the chest of
drawers. Gervaise was very pleased to see her old lodging once more.
She told them whereabouts her own furniture stood, and pointed out the
place on the floor where Nana had been born. How strange it was to
meet like this again, after so many years! They never dreamed of
running into each other like this and even living in the same rooms.

Virginie added some further details. Her husband had inherited a
little money from an aunt and he would probably set her up in a shop
before long. Meanwhile she was still sewing. At length, at the end of
a full half hour, the laundress took her leave. Poisson scarcely
seemed to notice her departure. While seeing her to the door, Virginie
promised to return the visit. And she would have Gervaise do her
laundry. While Virginie was keeping her in further conversation on the
landing, Gervaise had the feeling that she wanted to say something
about Lantier and her sister Adele, and this notion upset her a bit.
But not a word was uttered respecting those unpleasant things; they
parted, wishing each other good-bye in a very amiable manner.

"Good-bye, Madame Coupeau."

"Good-bye, Madame Poisson."

That was the starting point of a great friendship. A week later,
Virginie never passed Gervaise's shop without going in; and she
remained there gossiping for hours together, to such an extent indeed
that Poisson, filled with anxiety, fearing she had been run over,
would come and seek her with his expressionless and death-like
countenance. Now that she was seeing the dressmaker every day Gervaise
became aware of a strange obsession. Every time Virginie began to talk
Gervaise had the feeling Lantier was going to be mentioned. So she had
Lantier on her mind throughout all of Virginie's visits. This was
silly because, in fact, she didn't care a bit about Lantier or Adele
at this time. She was quite certain that she had no curiosity as to
what had happened to either of them. But this obsession got hold of
her in spite of herself. Anyway, she didn't hold it against Virginie,
it wasn't her fault, surely. She enjoyed being with her and looked
forward to her visits.

Meanwhile winter had come, the Coupeaus' fourth winter in the Rue de
la Goutte-d'Or. December and January were particularly cold. It froze
hard as it well could. After New Year's day the snow remained three
weeks without melting. It did not interfere with work, but the
contrary, for winter is the best season for the ironers. It was very
pleasant inside the shop! There was never any ice on the window-panes
like there was at the grocer's and the hosier's opposite. The stove
was always stuffed with coke and kept things as hot as a Turkish bath.
With the laundry steaming overhead you could almost imagine it was
summer. You were quite comfortable with the doors closed and so much
warmth everywhere that you were tempted to doze off with your eyes
open. Gervaise laughed and said it reminded her of summer in the
country. The street traffic made no noise in the snow and you could
hardly hear the pedestrians who passed by. Only children's voices were
heard in the silence, especially the noisy band of urchins who had
made a long slide in the gutter near the blacksmith's shop.

Gervaise would sometimes go over to the door, wipe the moisture from
one of the panes with her hand, and look out to see what was happening
to her neighborhood due to this extraordinary cold spell. Not one nose
was being poked out of the adjacent shops. The entire neighborhood was
muffled in snow. The only person she was able to exchange nods with
was the coal-dealer next door, who still walked out bare-headed
despite the severe freeze.

What was especially enjoyable in this awful weather was to have some
nice hot coffee in the middle of the day. The workwomen had no cause
for complaint. The mistress made it very strong and without a grain of
chicory. It was quite different to Madame Fauconnier's coffee, which
was like ditch-water. Only whenever mother Coupeau undertook to make
it, it was always an interminable time before it was ready, because
she would fall asleep over the kettle. On these occasions, when the
workwomen had finished their lunch, they would do a little ironing
whilst waiting for the coffee.

It so happened that on the morrow of Twelfth-day half-past twelve
struck and still the coffee was not ready. It seemed to persist in
declining to pass through the strainer. Mother Coupeau tapped against
the pot with a tea-spoon; and one could hear the drops falling slowly,
one by one, and without hurrying themselves any the more.

"Leave it alone," said tall Clemence; "you'll make it thick. To-day
there'll be as much to eat as to drink."

Tall Clemence was working on a man's shirt, the plaits of which she
separated with her finger-nail. She had caught a cold, her eyes were
frightfully swollen and her chest was shaken with fits of coughing,
which doubled her up beside the work-table. With all that she had not
even a handkerchief round her neck and she was dressed in some cheap
flimsy woolen stuff in which she shivered. Close by, Madame Putois,
wrapped up in flannel muffled up to her ears, was ironing a petticoat
which she turned round the skirt-board, the narrow end of which rested
on the back of a chair; whilst a sheet laid on the floor prevented the
petticoat from getting dirty as it trailed along the tiles. Gervaise
alone occupied half the work-table with some embroidered muslin
curtains, over which she passed her iron in a straight line with her
arms stretched out to avoid making any creases. All on a sudden the
coffee running through noisily caused her to raise her head. It was
that squint-eyed Augustine who had just given it an outlet by
thrusting a spoon through the strainer.

"Leave it alone!" cried Gervaise. "Whatever is the matter with you?
It'll be like drinking mud now."

Mother Coupeau had placed five glasses on a corner of the work-table
that was free. The women now left their work. The mistress always
poured out the coffee herself after putting two lumps of sugar into
each glass. It was the moment that they all looked forward to. On this
occasion, as each one took her glass and squatted down on a little
stool in front of the stove, the shop-door opened. Virginie entered,
shivering all over.

"Ah, my children," said she, "it cuts you in two! I can no longer feel
my ears. The cold is something awful!"

"Why, it's Madame Poisson!" exclaimed Gervaise. "Ah, well! You've come
at the right time. You must have some coffee with us."

"On my word, I can't say no. One feels the frost in one's bones merely
by crossing the street."

There was still some coffee left, luckily. Mother Coupeau went and
fetched a sixth glass, and Gervaise let Virginie help herself to sugar
out of politeness. The workwomen moved to give Virginie a small space
close to the stove. Her nose was very red, she shivered a bit,
pressing her hands which were stiff with cold around the glass to warm
them. She had just come from the grocery story where you froze to
death waiting for a quarter-pound of cheese and so she raved about the
warmth of the shop. It felt so good on one's skin. After warming up,
she stretched out her long legs and the six of them relaxed together,
supping their coffee slowly, surround by all the work still to be
done. Mother Coupeau and Virginie were the only ones on chairs, the
others, on low benches, seemed to be sitting on the floor. Squint-eyed
Augustine had pulled over a corner of the cloth below the skirt,
stretching herself out on it.

No one spoke at first; all kept their noses in their glasses, enjoying
their coffee.

"It's not bad, all the same," declared Clemence.

But she was seized with a fit of coughing, and almost choked. She
leant her head against the wall to cough with more force.

"That's a bad cough you've got," said Virginie. "Wherever did you
catch it?"

"One never knows!" replied Clemence, wiping her face with her sleeve.
"It must have been the other night. There were two girls who were
flaying each other outside the 'Grand-Balcony.' I wanted to see, so I
stood there whilst the snow was falling. Ah, what a drubbing! It was
enough to make one die with laughing. One had her nose almost pulled
off; the blood streamed on the ground. When the other, a great long
stick like me, saw the blood, she slipped away as quick as she could.
And I coughed nearly all night. Besides that too, men are so stupid in
bed, they don't let you have any covers over you half the time."

"Pretty conduct that," murmured Madame Putois. "You're killing
yourself, my girl."

"And if it pleases me to kill myself! Life isn't so very amusing.
Slaving all the blessed day long to earn fifty-five sous, cooking
one's blood from morning to night in front of the stove; no, you know,
I've had enough of it! All the same though, this cough won't do me the
service of making me croak. It'll go off the same way it came."

A short silence ensued. The good-for-nothing Clemence, who led riots
in low dancing establishments, and shrieked like a screech-owl at
work, always saddened everyone with her thoughts of death. Gervaise
knew her well, and so merely said:

"You're never very gay the morning after a night of high living."

The truth was that Gervaise did not like this talk about women
fighting. Because of the flogging at the wash-house it annoyed her
whenever anyone spoke before her and Virginie of kicks with wooden
shoes and of slaps in the face. It so happened, too, that Virginie was
looking at her and smiling.

"By the way," she said quietly, "yesterday I saw some hair-pulling.
They almost tore each other to pieces."

"Who were they?" Madame Putois inquired.

"The midwife and her maid, you know, a little blonde. What a pest the
girl is! She was yelling at her employer that she had got rid of a
child for the fruit woman and that she was going to tell the police if
she wasn't paid to keep quiet. So the midwife slapped her right in the
face and then the little blonde jumped on her and started scratching
her and pulling her hair, really--by the roots. The sausage-man had to
grab her to put a stop to it."

The workwomen laughed. Then they all took a sip of coffee.

"Do you believe that she really got rid of a child?" Clemence asked.

"Oh, yes! The rumor was all round the neighborhood," Virginie
answered. "I didn't see it myself, you understand, but it's part of
the job. All midwives do it."

"Well!" exclaimed Madame Putois. "You have to be pretty stupid to put
yourself in their hands. No thanks, you could be maimed for life. But
there's a sure way to do it. Drink a glass of holy water every evening
and make the sign of the cross three times over your stomach with your
thumb. Then your troubles will be over."

Everyone thought mother Coupeau was asleep, but she shook her head in
protest. She knew another way and it was infallible. You had to eat a
hard-cooked egg every two hours, and put spinach leaves on your loins.
Squint-eyed Augustine set up a hen-cackling when she heard this. They
had forgotten about her. Gervaise lifted up the petticoat that was
being ironed and found her rolling on the floor with laughter. She
jerked her upright. What was she laughing about? Was it right for her
to be eavesdropping when older people were talking, the little goose?
Anyway it was time for her to deliver the laundry to a friend of
Madame Lerat at Les Batignolles. So Gervaise hung a basket on her arm
and pushed her toward the door. Augustine went off, sobbing and
sniveling, dragging her feet in the snow.

Meanwhile mother Coupeau, Madame Putois and Clemence were discussing
the effectiveness of hard-cooked eggs and spinach leaves. Then
Virginie said softly:

"/Mon Dieu!/ you have a fight, and then you make it up, if you have a
generous heart." She leaned toward Gervaise with a smile and added,
"Really, I don't hold any grudge against you for that business at the
wash-house. You remember it, don't you?"

This was what Gervaise had been dreading. She guessed that the subject
of Lantier and Adele would now come up.

Virginie had moved close to Gervaise so as not to be overheard by the
others. Gervaise, lulled by the excessive heat, felt so limp that she
couldn't even summon the willpower to change the subject. She foresaw
what the tall brunette would say and her heart was stirred with an
emotion which she didn't want to admit to herself.

"I hope I'm not hurting your feelings," Virginie continued. "Often
I've had it on the tip of my tongue. But since we are now on the
subject, word of honor, I don't have any grudge against you."

She stirred her remaining coffee and then took a small sip. Gervaise,
with her heart in her throat, wondered if Virginie had really forgiven
her as completely as she said, for she seemed to observe sparks in her
dark eyes.

"You see," Virginie went on, "you had an excuse. They played a really
rotten, dirty trick on you. To be fair about it, if it had been me,
I'd have taken a knife to her."

She drank another small sip, then added rapidly without a pause:

"Anyway, it didn't bring them happiness, /mon Dieu/! Not a bit of it.
They went to live over at La Glaciere, in a filthy street that was
always muddy. I went two days later to have lunch with them. I can
tell you, it was quite a trip by bus. Well, I found them already
fighting. Really, as I came in they were boxing each other's ears.
Fine pair of love birds! Adele isn't worth the rope to hang her. I say
that even if she is my own sister. It would take too long to relate
all the nasty tricks she played on me, and anyhow, it's between the
two of us. As for Lantier--well, he's no good either. He'd beat the
hide off you for anything, and with his fist closed too. They fought
all the time. The police even came once."

Virginie went on about other fights. Oh, she knew of things that would
make your hair stand up. Gervaise listened in silence, her face pale.
It was nearly seven years since she had heard a word about Lantier.
She hadn't realized what a strong curiosity she had as to what had
become of the poor man, even though he had treated her badly. And she
never would have believed that just the mention of his name could put
such a glowing warmth in the pit of her stomach. She certainly had no
reason to be jealous of Adele any more but she rejoiced to think of
her body all bruised from the beatings. She could have listened to
Virginie all night, but she didn't ask any questions, not wanting to
appear much interested.

Virginie stopped to sip at her coffee. Gervaise, realizing that she
was expected to say something, asked, with a pretence of indifference:

"Are they still living at La Glaciere?"

"No!" the other replied. "Didn't I tell you? They separated last week.
One morning, Adele moved out and Lantier didn't chase after her."

"So they're separated!" Gervaise exclaimed.

"Who are you talking about?" Clemence asked, interrupting her
conversation with mother Coupeau and Madame Putois.

"Nobody you know," said Virginie.

She was looking at Gervaise carefully and could see that she was
upset. She moved still closer, maliciously finding pleasure in
bringing up these old stories. Of a sudden she asked Gervaise what she
would do if Lantier came round here. Men were really such strange
creatures, he might decide to return to his first love. This caused
Gervaise to sit up very straight and dignified. She was a married
woman; she would send Lantier off immediately. There was no
possibility of anything further between them, not even a handshake.
She would not even want to look that man in the face.

"I know that Etienne is his son, and that's a relationship that
remains," she said. "If Lantier wants to see his son, I'll send the
boy to him because you can't stop a father from seeing his child. But
as for myself, I don't want him to touch me even with the tip of his
finger. That is all finished."

Desiring to break off this conversation, she seemed to awake with a
start and called out to the women:

"You ladies! Do you think all these clothes are going to iron
themselves? Get to work!"

The workwomen, slow from the heat and general laziness, didn't hurry
themselves, but went right on talking, gossiping about other people
they had known.

Gervaise shook herself and got to her feet. Couldn't earn money by
sitting all day. She was the first to return to the ironing, but found
that her curtains had been spotted by the coffee and she had to rub
out the stains with a damp cloth. The other women were now stretching
and getting ready to begin ironing.

Clemence had a terrible attack of coughing as soon as she moved.
Finally she was able to return to the shirt she had been doing. Madame
Putois began to work on the petticoat again.

"Well, good-bye," said Virginie. "I only came out for a quarter-pound
of Swiss cheese. Poisson must think I've frozen to death on the way."

She had only just stepped outside when she turned back to say that
Augustine was at the end of the street, sliding on the ice with some
urchins. The squint-eyed imp rushed in all red-faced and out of breath
with snow all in her hair. She didn't mind the scolding she received,
merely saying that she hadn't been able to walk fast because of the
ice and then some brats threw snow at her.

The afternoons were all the same these winter days. The laundry was
the refuge for anyone in the neighborhood who was cold. There was an
endless procession of gossiping women. Gervaise took pride in the
comforting warmth of her shop and welcomed those who came in, "holding
a salon," as the Lorilleuxs and the Boches remarked meanly.

Gervaise was always thoughtful and generous. Sometimes she even
invited poor people in if she saw them shivering outside. A friendship
sprang up with an elderly house-painter who was seventy. He lived in
an attic room and was slowly dying of cold and hunger. His three sons
had been killed in the war. He survived the best he could, but it had
been two years since he had been able to hold a paint-brush in his
hand. Whenever Gervaise saw Pere Bru walking outside, she would call
him in and arrange a place for him close to the stove. Often she gave
him some bread and cheese. Pere Bru's face was as wrinkled as a
withered apple. He would sit there, with his stooping shoulders and
his white beard, without saying a word, just listening to the coke
sputtering in the stove. Maybe he was thinking of his fifty years of
hard work on high ladders, his fifty years spent painting doors and
whitewashing ceilings in every corner of Paris.

"Well, Pere Bru," Gervaise would say, "what are you thinking of now?"

"Nothing much. All sorts of things," he would answer quietly.

The workwomen tried to joke with him to cheer him up, saying he was
worrying over his love affairs, but he scarcely listened to them
before he fell back into his habitual attitude of meditative
melancholy.

Virginie now frequently spoke to Gervaise of Lantier. She seemed to
find amusement in filling her mind with ideas of her old lover just
for the pleasure of embarrassing her by making suggestions. One day
she related that she had met him; then, as the laundress took no
notice, she said nothing further, and it was only on the morrow that
she added he had spoken about her for a long time, and with a great
show of affection. Gervaise was much upset by these reports whispered
in her ear in a corner of the shop. The mention of Lantier's name
always caused a worried sensation in the pit of her stomach. She
certainly thought herself strong; she wished to lead the life of an
industrious woman, because labor is the half of happiness. So she
never considered Coupeau in this matter, having nothing to reproach
herself with as regarded her husband, not even in her thoughts. But
with a hesitating and suffering heart, she would think of the
blacksmith. It seemed to her that the memory of Lantier--that slow
possession which she was resuming--rendered her unfaithful to Goujet,
to their unavowed love, sweet as friendship. She passed sad days
whenever she felt herself guilty towards her good friend. She would
have liked to have had no affection for anyone but him outside of her
family. It was a feeling far above all carnal thoughts, for the signs
of which upon her burning face Virginie was ever on the watch.

As soon as spring came Gervaise often went and sought refuge with
Goujet. She could no longer sit musing on a chair without immediately
thinking of her first lover; she pictured him leaving Adele, packing
his clothes in the bottom of their old trunk, and returning to her in
a cab. The days when she went out, she was seized with the most
foolish fears in the street; she was ever thinking she heard Lantier's
footsteps behind her. She did not dare turn round, but tremblingly
fancied she felt his hands seizing her round the waist. He was, no
doubt, spying upon her; he would appear before her some afternoon; and
the bare idea threw her into a cold perspiration, because he would to
a certainty kiss her on the ear, as he used to do in former days
solely to tease her. It was this kiss which frightened her; it
rendered her deaf beforehand; it filled her with a buzzing amidst
which she could only distinguish the sound of her heart beating
violently. So, as soon as these fears seized upon her, the forge was
her only shelter; there, under Goujet's protection, she once more
became easy and smiling, as his sonorous hammer drove away her
disagreeable reflections.

What a happy time! The laundress took particular pains with the
washing of her customer in the Rue des Portes-Blanches; she always
took it home herself because that errand, every Friday, was a ready
excuse for passing through the Rue Marcadet and looking in at the
forge. The moment she turned the corner of the street she felt light
and gay, as though in the midst of those plots of waste land
surrounded by grey factories, she were out in the country; the roadway
black with coal-dust, the plumage of steam over the roofs, amused her
as much as a moss-covered path leading through masses of green foliage
in a wood in the environs; and she loved the dull horizon, streaked by
the tall factory-chimneys, the Montmartre heights, which hid the
heavens from view, the chalky white houses pierced with the uniform
openings of their windows. She would slacken her steps as she drew
near, jumping over the pools of water, and finding a pleasure in
traversing the deserted ins and outs of the yard full of old building
materials. Right at the further end the forge shone with a brilliant
light, even at mid-day. Her heart leapt with the dance of the hammers.
When she entered, her face turned quite red, the little fair hairs at
the nape of her neck flew about like those of a woman arriving at some
lovers' meeting. Goujet was expecting her, his arms and chest bare,
whilst he hammered harder on the anvil on those days so as to make
himself heard at a distance. He divined her presence, and greeted her
with a good silent laugh in his yellow beard. But she would not let
him leave off his work; she begged him to take up his hammer again,
because she loved him the more when he wielded it with his big arms
swollen with muscles. She would go and give Etienne a gentle tap on
the cheek, as he hung on to the bellows, and then remain for an hour
watching the rivets.

The two did not exchange a dozen words. They could not have more
completely satisfied their love if alone in a room with the door
double-locked. The snickering of Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-
without-Thirst, did not bother them in the least, for they no longer
even heard him. At the end of a quarter of an hour she would begin to
feel slightly oppressed; the heat, the powerful smell, the ascending
smoke, made her dizzy, whilst the dull thuds of the hammers shook her
from the crown of her head to the soles of her feet. Then she desired
nothing more; it was her pleasure. Had Goujet pressed her in his arms
it would not have procured her so sweet an emotion. She drew close to
him that she might feel the wind raised by his hammer beat upon her
cheek, and become, as it were, a part of the blow he struck. When the
sparks made her soft hands smart, she did not withdraw them; on the
contrary, she enjoyed the rain of fire which stung her skin. He for
certain, divined the happiness which she tasted there; he always kept
the most difficult work for the Fridays, so as to pay his court to her
with all his strength and all his skill; he no longer spared himself
at the risk of splitting the anvils in two, as he panted and his loins
vibrated with the joy he was procuring her. All one spring-time their
love thus filled Goujet with the rumbling of a storm. It was an idyll
amongst giant-like labor in the midst of the glare of the coal fire,
and of the shaking of the shed, the cracking carcass of which was
black with soot. All that beaten iron, kneaded like red wax, preserved
the rough marks of their love. When on the Fridays the laundress
parted from Golden-Mug, she slowly reascended the Rue des
Poissonniers, contented and tired, her mind and her body alike
tranquil.

Little by little, her fear of Lantier diminished; her good sense got
the better of her. At that time she would still have led a happy life,
had it not been for Coupeau, who was decidedly going to the bad. One
day she just happened to be returning from the forge, when she fancied
she recognized Coupeau inside Pere Colombe's l'Assommoir, in the act
of treating himself to a round of vitriol in the company of My-Boots,
Bibi-the-Smoker, and Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-without-Thirst. She
passed quickly by, so as not to seem to be spying on them. But she
glanced back; it was indeed Coupeau who was tossing his little glass
of bad brandy down his throat with a gesture already familiar. He lied
then; so he went in for brandy now! She returned home in despair; all
her old dread of brandy took possession of her. She forgave the wine,
because wine nourishes the workman; all kinds of spirit, on the
contrary, were filth, poisons which destroyed in the workman the taste
for bread. Ah! the government ought to prevent the manufacture of such
horrid stuff!

On arriving at the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or, she found the whole house
upset. Her workwomen had left the shop, and were in the courtyard
looking up above. She questioned Clemence.

"It's old Bijard who's giving his wife a hiding," replied the ironer.
"He was in the doorway, as drunk as a trooper, watching for her return
from the wash-house. He whacked her up the stairs, and now he's
finishing her off up there in their room. Listen, can't you hear her
shrieks?"

Gervaise hastened to the spot. She felt some friendship for her
washer-woman, Madame Bijard, who was a very courageous woman. She had
hoped to put a stop to what was going on. Upstairs, on the sixth floor
the door of the room was wide open, some lodgers were shouting on the
landing, whilst Madame Boche, standing in front of the door, was
calling out:

"Will you leave off? I shall send for the police; do you hear?"

No one dared to venture inside the room, because it was known that
Bijard was like a brute beast when he was drunk. As a matter of fact,
he was scarcely ever sober. The rare days on which he worked, he
placed a bottle of brandy beside his blacksmith's vise, gulping some
of it down every half hour. He could not keep himself going any other
way. He would have blazed away like a torch if anyone had placed a
lighted match close to his mouth.

"But we mustn't let her be murdered!" said Gervaise, all in a tremble.

And she entered. The room, an attic, and very clean, was bare and
cold, almost emptied by the drunken habits of the man, who took the
very sheets from the bed to turn them into liquor. During the struggle
the table had rolled away to the window, the two chairs, knocked over,
had fallen with their legs in the air. In the middle of the room, on
the tile floor, lay Madame Bijard, all bloody, her skirts, still
soaked with the water of the wash-house, clinging to her thighs, her
hair straggling in disorder. She was breathing heavily, with a rattle
in her throat, as she muttered prolonged ohs! each time she received a
blow from the heel of Bijard's boot. He had knocked her down with his
fists, and now he stamped upon her.

"Ah, strumpet! Ah, strumpet! Ah strumpet!" grunted he in a choking
voice, accompanying each blow with the word, taking a delight in
repeating it, and striking all the harder the more he found his voice
failing him.

Then when he could no longer speak, he madly continued to kick with a
dull sound, rigid in his ragged blue blouse and overalls, his face
turned purple beneath his dirty beard, and his bald forehead streaked
with big red blotches. The neighbors on the landing related that he
was beating her because she had refused him twenty sous that morning.
Boche's voice was heard at the foot of the staircase. He was calling
Madame Boche, saying:

"Come down; let them kill each other, it'll be so much scum the less."

Meanwhile, Pere Bru had followed Gervaise into the room. Between them
they were trying to get him towards the door. But he turned round,
speechless and foaming at the lips, and in his pale eyes the alcohol
was blazing with a murderous glare. The laundress had her wrist
injured; the old workman was knocked against the table. On the floor,
Madame Bijard was breathing with greater difficulty, her mouth wide
open, her eyes closed. Now Bijard kept missing her. He had madly
returned to the attack, but blinded by rage, his blows fell on either
side, and at times he almost fell when his kicks went into space. And
during all this onslaught, Gervaise beheld in a corner of the room
little Lalie, then four years old, watching her father murdering her
mother. The child held in her arms, as though to protect her, her
sister Henriette, only recently weaned. She was standing up, her head
covered with a cotton cap, her face very pale and grave. Her large
black eyes gazed with a fixedness full of thought and were without a
tear.

When at length Bijard, running against a chair, stumbled onto the
tiled floor, where they left him snoring, Pere Bru helped Gervaise to
raise Madame Bijard. The latter was now sobbing bitterly; and Lalie,
drawing near, watched her crying, being used to such sights and
already resigned to them. As the laundress descended the stairs, in
the silence of the now quieted house, she kept seeing before her that
look of this child of four, as grave and courageous as that of a
woman.

"Monsieur Coupeau is on the other side of the street," called out
Clemence as soon as she caught sight of her. "He looks awfully drunk."

Coupeau was just then crossing the street. He almost smashed a pane of
glass with his shoulder as he missed the door. He was in a state of
complete drunkenness, with his teeth clinched and his nose inflamed.
And Gervaise at once recognized the vitriol of l'Assommoir in the
poisoned blood which paled his skin. She tried to joke and get him to
bed, the same as on the days when the wine had made him merry; but he
pushed her aside without opening his lips, and raised his fist in
passing as he went to bed of his own accord. He made Gervaise think of
the other--the drunkard who was snoring upstairs, tired out by the
blows he had struck. A cold shiver passed over her. She thought of the
men she knew--of her husband, of Goujet, of Lantier--her heart
breaking, despairing of ever being happy.



                             CHAPTER VII.

Gervaise's saint's day fell on the 19th of June. On such occasions,
the Coupeaus always made a grand display; they feasted till they were
as round as balls, and their stomachs were filled for the rest of the
week. There was a complete clear out of all the money they had. The
moment there were a few sous in the house they went in gorging. They
invented saints for those days which the almanac had not provided with
any, just for the sake of giving themselves a pretext for
gormandizing. Virginie highly commended Gervaise for stuffing herself
with all sorts of savory dishes. When one has a husband who turns all
he can lay hands on into drink, it's good to line one's stomach well,
and not to let everything go off in liquids. Since the money would
disappear anyway, surely it was better to pay it to the butcher.
Gervaise used that excuse to justify overeating, saying it was
Coupeau's fault if they could no longer save a sou. She had grown
considerably fatter, and she limped more than before because her leg,
now swollen with fat, seemed to be getting gradually shorter.

That year they talked about her saint's day a good month beforehand.
They thought of dishes and smacked their lips in advance. All the shop
had a confounded longing to junket. They wanted a merry-making of the
right sort--something out of the ordinary and highly successful. One
does not have so many opportunities for enjoyment. What most troubled
the laundress was to decide whom to invite; she wished to have twelve
persons at table, no more, no less. She, her husband, mother Coupeau,
and Madame Lerat, already made four members of the family. She would
also have the Goujets and the Poissons. Originally, she had decided
not to invite her workwomen, Madame Putois and Clemence, so as not to
make them too familiar; but as the projected feast was being
constantly spoken of in their presence, and their mouths watered, she
ended by telling them to come. Four and four, eight, and two are ten.
Then, wishing particularly to have twelve, she became reconciled with
the Lorilleuxs, who for some time past had been hovering around her;
at least it was agreed that the Lorilleuxs should come to dinner, and
that peace should be made with glasses in hand. You really shouldn't
keep family quarrels going forever. When the Boches heard that a
reconciliation was planned, they also sought to make up with Gervaise,
and so they had to be invited to the dinner too. That would make
fourteen, not counting the children. Never before had she given such a
large dinner and the thought frightened and excited her at the same
time.

The saint's day happened to fall on a Monday. It was a piece of luck.
Gervaise counted on the Sunday afternoon to begin the cooking. On the
Saturday, whilst the workwomen hurried with their work, there was a
long discussion in the shop with the view of finally deciding upon
what the feast should consist of. For three weeks past one thing alone
had been chosen--a fat roast goose. There was a gluttonous look on
every face whenever it was mentioned. The goose was even already
bought. Mother Coupeau went and fetched it to let Clemence and Madame
Putois feel its weight. And they uttered all kinds of exclamations; it
looked such an enormous bird, with its rough skin all swelled out with
yellow fat.

"Before that there will be the pot-au-feu," said Gervaise, "the soup
and just a small piece of boiled beef, it's always good. Then we must
have something in the way of a stew."

Tall Clemence suggested rabbit, but they were always having that,
everyone was sick of it. Gervaise wanted something more distinguished.
Madame Putois having spoken of stewed veal, they looked at one another
with broad smiles. It was a real idea, nothing would make a better
impression than a veal stew.

"And after that," resumed Gervaise, "we must have some other dish with
a sauce."

Mother Coupeau proposed fish. But the others made a grimace, as they
banged down their irons. None of them liked fish; it was not a bit
satisfying; and besides that it was full of bones. Squint-eyed
Augustine, having dared to observe that she liked skate, Clemence shut
her mouth for her with a good sound clout. At length the mistress
thought of stewed pig's back and potatoes, which restored the smiles
to every countenance. Then Virginie entered like a puff of wind, with
a strange look on her face.

"You've come just at the right time!" exclaimed Gervaise. "Mother
Coupeau, do show her the bird."

And mother Coupeau went a second time and fetched the goose, which
Virginie had to take in her hands. She uttered no end of exclamations.
By Jove! It was heavy! But she soon laid it down on the work-table,
between a petticoat and a bundle of shirts. Her thoughts were
elsewhere. She dragged Gervaise into the back-room.

"I say, little one," murmured she rapidly, "I've come to warn you.
You'll never guess who I just met at the corner of the street.
Lantier, my dear! He's hovering about on the watch; so I hastened here
at once. It frightened me on your account, you know."

The laundress turned quite pale. What could the wretched man want with
her? Coming, too, like that, just in the midst of the preparations for
the feast. She had never had any luck; she could not even be allowed
to enjoy herself quietly. But Virginie replied that she was very
foolish to put herself out about it like that. Why! If Lantier dared
to follow her about, all she had to do was to call a policeman and
have him locked up. In the month since her husband had been appointed
a policeman, Virginie had assumed rather lordly manners and talked of
arresting everybody. She began to raise her voice, saying that she
wished some passer-by would pinch her bottom so that she could take
the fresh fellow to the police station herself and turn him over to
her husband. Gervaise signaled her to be quiet since the workwomen
were listening and led the way back into the shop, reopening the
discussion about the dinner.

"Now, don't we need a vegetable?"

"Why not peas with bacon?" said Virginie. "I like nothing better."

"Yes, peas with bacon." The others approved. Augustine was so
enthusiastic that she jabbed the poker into the stove harder than
ever.

By three o'clock on the morrow, Sunday, mother Coupeau had lighted
their two stoves and also a third one of earthenware which they had
borrowed from the Boches. At half-past three the pot-au-feu was
boiling away in an enormous earthenware pot lent by the eating-house
keeper next door, the family pot having been found too small. They had
decided to cook the veal and the pig's back the night before, since
both of those dishes are better when reheated. But the cream sauce for
the veal would not be prepared until just before sitting down for the
feast.

There was still plenty of work left for Monday: the soup, the peas
with bacon, the roast goose. The inner room was lit by three fires.
Butter was sizzling in the pans and emitting a sharp odor of burnt
flour.

Mother Coupeau and Gervaise, with white aprons tied on, were bustling
all around, cleaning parsley, dashing for salt and pepper, turning the
meat. They had sent Coupeau away so as not to have him underfoot, but
they still had plenty of people looking in throughout the afternoon.
The luscious smells from the kitchen had spread through the entire
building so that neighboring ladies came into the shop on various
pretexts, very curious to see what was being cooked.

Virginie put in an appearance towards five o'clock. She had again seen
Lantier; really, it was impossible to go down the street now without
meeting him. Madame Boche also had just caught sight of him standing
at the corner of the pavement with his head thrust forward in an
uncommonly sly manner. Then Gervaise who had at that moment intended
going for a sou's worth of burnt onions for the pot-au-feu, began to
tremble from head to foot and did not dare leave the house; the more
so, as the concierge and the dressmaker put her into a terrible fright
by relating horrible stories of men waiting for women with knives and
pistols hidden beneath their overcoats. Well, yes! one reads of such
things every day in the newspapers. When one of those scoundrels gets
his monkey up on discovering an old love leading a happy life he
becomes capable of everything. Virginie obligingly offered to run and
fetch the burnt onions. Women should always help one another, they
could not let that little thing be murdered. When she returned she
said that Lantier was no longer there; he had probably gone off on
finding he was discovered. In spite of that thought, he was the
subject of conversation around the saucepans until night-time. When
Madame Boche advised her to inform Coupeau, Gervaise became really
terrified, and implored her not to say a word about it. Oh, yes,
wouldn't that be a nice situation! Her husband must have become
suspicious already because for the last few days, at night, he would
swear to himself and bang the wall with his fists. The mere thought
that the two men might destroy each other because of her made her
shudder. She knew that Coupeau was jealous enough to attack Lantier
with his shears.

While the four of them had been deep in contemplating this drama, the
saucepans on the banked coals of the stoves had been quietly
simmering. When mother Coupeau lifted the lids, the veal and the pig's
back were discreetly bubbling. The pot-au-feu was steadily steaming
with snore-like sounds. Eventually each of them dipped a piece of
bread into the soup to taste the bouillon.

At length Monday arrived. Now that Gervaise was going to have fourteen
persons at table, she began to fear that she would not be able to find
room for them all. She decided that they should dine in the shop; and
the first thing in the morning she took measurements so as to settle
which way she should place the table. After that they had to remove
all the clothes and take the ironing-table to pieces; the top of this
laid on to some shorter trestles was to be the dining-table. But just
in the midst of all this moving a customer appeared and made a scene
because she had been waiting for her washing ever since the Friday;
they were humbugging her, she would have her things at once. Then
Gervaise tried to excuse herself and lied boldly; it was not her
fault, she was cleaning out her shop, the workmen would not be there
till the morrow; and she pacified her customer and got rid of her by
promising to busy herself with her things at the earliest possible
moment. Then, as soon as the woman had left, she showed her temper.
Really, if you listened to all your customers, you'd never have time
to eat. You could work yourself to death like a dog on a leash! Well!
No matter who came in to-day, even if they offered one hundred
thousand francs, she wouldn't touch an iron on this Monday, because it
was her turn to enjoy herself.

The entire morning was spent in completing the purchases. Three times
Gervaise went out and returned laden like a mule. But just as she was
going to order wine she noticed that she had not sufficient money
left. She could easily have got it on credit; only she could not be
without money in the house, on account of the thousand little expenses
that one is liable to forget. And mother Coupeau and she had lamented
together in the back-room as they reckoned that they required at least
twenty francs. How could they obtain them, those four pieces of a
hundred sous each? Mother Coupeau who had at one time done the
charring for a little actress of the Theatre des Batignolles, was the
first to suggest the pawn-shop. Gervaise laughed with relief. How
stupid she was not to have thought of it! She quickly folded her black
silk dress upon a towel which she then pinned together. Then she hid
the bundle under mother Coupeau's apron, telling her to keep it very
flat against her stomach, on account of the neighbors who had no need
to know; and she went and watched at the door to see that the old
woman was not followed. But the latter had only gone as far as the
charcoal dealer's when she called her back.

"Mamma! Mamma!"

She made her return to the shop, and taking her wedding-ring off her
finger said:

"Here, put this with it. We shall get all the more."

When mother Coupeau brought her twenty-five francs, she danced for
joy. She would order an extra six bottles of wine, sealed wine to
drink with the roast. The Lorilleuxs would be crushed.

For a fortnight past it had been the Coupeaus' dream to crush the
Lorilleuxs. Was it not true that those sly ones, the man and his wife,
a truly pretty couple, shut themselves up whenever they had anything
nice to eat as though they had stolen it? Yes, they covered up the
window with a blanket to hide the light and make believe that they
were already asleep in bed. This stopped anyone from coming up, and so
the Lorilleuxs could stuff everything down, just the two of them. They
were even careful the next day not to throw the bones into the garbage
so that no one would know what they had eaten. Madame Lorilleux would
walk to the end of the street to toss them into a sewer opening. One
morning Gervaise surprised her emptying a basket of oyster shells
there. Oh, those penny-pinchers were never open-handed, and all their
mean contrivances came from their desire to appear to be poor. Well,
we'd show them, we'd prove to them what we weren't mean.

Gervaise would have laid her table in the street, had she been able
to, just for the sake of inviting each passer-by. Money was not
invented that it should be allowed to grow moldy, was it? It is
pretty when it shines all new in the sunshine. She resembled them so
little now, that on the days when she had twenty sous she arranged
things to let people think that she had forty.

Mother Coupeau and Gervaise talked of the Lorilleuxs whilst they laid
the cloth about three o'clock. They had hung some big curtains at the
windows; but as it was very warm the door was left open and the whole
street passed in front of the little table. The two women did not
place a decanter, or a bottle, or a salt-cellar, without trying to
arrange them in such a way as to annoy the Lorilleuxs. They had
arranged their seats so as to give them a full view of the superbly
laid cloth, and they had reserved the best crockery for them, well
knowing that the porcelain plates would create a great effect.

"No, no, mamma," cried Gervaise; "don't give them those napkins! I've
two damask ones."

"Ah, good!" murmured the old woman; "that'll break their hearts,
that's certain."

And they smiled to each other as they stood up on either side of that
big white table on which the fourteen knives and forks, placed all
round, caused them to swell with pride. It had the appearance of the
altar of some chapel in the middle of the shop.

"That's because they're so stingy themselves!" resumed Gervaise. "You
know they lied last month when the woman went about everywhere saying
that she had lost a piece of gold chain as she was taking the work
home. The idea! There's no fear of her ever losing anything! It was
simply a way of making themselves out very poor and of not giving you
your five francs."

"As yet I've only seen my five francs twice," said mother Coupeau.

"I'll bet next month they'll concoct some other story. That explains
why they cover their window up when they have a rabbit to eat. Don't
you see? One would have the right to say to them: 'As you can afford a
rabbit you can certainly give five francs to your mother!' Oh! they're
just rotten! What would have become of you if I hadn't taken you to
live with us?"

Mother Coupeau slowly shook her head. That day she was all against the
Lorilleuxs, because of the great feast the Coupeaus were giving. She
loved cooking, the little gossipings round the saucepans, the place
turned topsy-turvy by the revels of saints' days. Besides she
generally got on pretty well with Gervaise. On other days when they
plagued one another as happens in all families, the old woman grumbled
saying she was wretchedly unfortunate in thus being at her daughter-
in-law's mercy. In point of fact she probably had some affection for
Madame Lorilleux who after all was her daughter.

"Ah!" continued Gervaise, "you wouldn't be so fat, would you, if you
were living with them? And no coffee, no snuff, no little luxuries of
any sort! Tell me, would they have given you two mattresses to your
bed?"

"No, that's very certain," replied mother Coupeau. "When they arrive I
shall place myself so as to have a good view of the door to see the
faces they'll make."

Thinking of the faces they would make gave them pleasure ahead of
time. However, they couldn't remain standing there admiring the table.
The Coupeaus had lunched very late on just a bite or two, because the
stoves were already in use, and because they did not want to dirty any
dishes needed for the evening. By four o'clock the two women were
working very hard. The huge goose was being cooked on a spit. Squint-
eyed Augustine was sitting on a low bench solemnly basting the goose
with a long-handled spoon. Gervaise was busy with the peas with bacon.
Mother Coupeau, kept spinning around, a bit confused, waiting for the
right time to begin reheating the pork and the veal.

Towards five o'clock the guests began to arrive. First of all came the
two workwomen, Clemence and Madame Putois, both in their Sunday best,
the former in blue, the latter in black; Clemence carried a geranium,
Madame Putois a heliotrope, and Gervaise, whose hands were just then
smothered with flour, had to kiss each of them on both cheeks with her
arms behind her back. Then following close upon their heels entered
Virginie dressed like a lady in a printed muslin costume with a sash
and a bonnet though she had only a few steps to come. She brought a
pot of red carnations. She took the laundress in her big arms and
squeezed her tight. At length Boche appeared with a pot of pansies and
Madame Boche with a pot of mignonette; then came Madame Lerat with a
balm-mint, the pot of which had dirtied her violet merino dress. All
these people kissed each other and gathered together in the back-room
in the midst of the three stoves and the roasting apparatus, which
gave out a stifling heat. The noise from the saucepans drowned the
voices. A dress catching in the Dutch oven caused quite an emotion.
The smell of roast goose was so strong that it made their mouths
water. And Gervaise was very pleasant, thanking everyone for their
flowers without however letting that interfere with her preparing the
thickening for the stewed veal at the bottom of a soup plate. She had
placed the pots in the shop at one end of the table without removing
the white paper that was round them. A sweet scent of flowers mingled
with the odor of cooking.

"Do you want any assistance?" asked Virginie. "Just fancy, you've been
three days preparing all this feast and it will be gobbled up in no
time."

"Well, you know," replied Gervaise, "it wouldn't prepare itself. No,
don't dirty your hands. You see everything's ready. There's only the
soup to warm."

Then they all made themselves comfortable. The ladies laid their
shawls and their caps on the bed and pinned up their skirts so as not
to soil them. Boche sent his wife back to the concierge's lodge until
time to eat and had cornered Clemence in a corner trying to find out
if she was ticklish. She was gasping for breath, as the mere thought
of being tickled sent shivers through her. So as not to bother the
cooks, the other ladies had gone into the shop and were standing
against the wall facing the table. They were talking through the door
though, and as they could not hear very well, they were continually
invading the back-room and crowding around Gervaise, who would forget
what she was doing to answer them.

There were a few stories which brought sly laughter. When Virginie
mentioned that she hadn't eaten for two days in order to have more
room for today's feast, tall Clemence said that she had cleaned
herself out that morning with an enema like the English do. Then Boche
suggested a way of digesting the food quickly by squeezing oneself
after each course, another English custom. After all, when you were
invited to dinner, wasn't it polite to eat as much as you could? Veal
and pork and goose are placed out for the cats to eat. The hostess
didn't need to worry a bit, they were going to clean their plates so
thoroughly that she wouldn't have to wash them.

All of them kept coming to smell the air above the saucepans and the
roaster. The ladies began to act like young girls, scurrying from room
to room and pushing each other.

Just as they were all jumping about and shouting by way of amusement,
Goujet appeared. He was so timid he scarcely dared enter, but stood
still, holding a tall white rose-tree in his arms, a magnificent plant
with a stem that reached to his face and entangled the flowers in his
beard. Gervaise ran to him, her cheeks burning from the heat of the
stoves. But he did not know how to get rid of his pot; and when she
had taken it from his hands he stammered, not daring to kiss her. It
was she who was obliged to stand on tip-toe and place her cheek
against his lips; he was so agitated that even then he kissed her
roughly on the eye almost blinding her. They both stood trembling.

"Oh! Monsieur Goujet, it's too lovely!" said she, placing the rose-
tree beside the other flowers which it overtopped with the whole of
its tuft of foliage.

"Not at all, not at all!" repeated he, unable to say anything else.

Then, after sighing deeply, he slightly recovered himself and stated
that she was not to expect his mother; she was suffering from an
attack of sciatica. Gervaise was greatly grieved; she talked of
putting a piece of the goose on one side as she particularly wished
Madame Goujet to have a taste of the bird. No one else was expected.
Coupeau was no doubt strolling about in the neighborhood with Poisson
whom he had called for directly after his lunch; they would be home
directly, they had promised to be back punctually at six. Then as the
soup was almost ready, Gervaise called to Madame Lerat, saying that
she thought it was time to go and fetch the Lorilleuxs. Madame Lerat
became at once very grave; it was she who had conducted all the
negotiations and who had settled how everything should pass between
the two families. She put her cap and shawl on again and went upstairs
very stiffly in her skirts, looking very stately. Down below the
laundress continued to stir her vermicelli soup without saying a word.
The guests suddenly became serious and solemnly waited.

It was Madame Lerat who appeared first. She had gone round by the
street so as to give more pomp to the reconciliation. She held the
shop-door wide open whilst Madame Lorilleux, wearing a silk dress,
stopped at the threshold. All the guests had risen from their seats;
Gervaise went forward and kissing her sister-in-law as had been
agreed, said:

"Come in. It's all over, isn't it? We'll both be nice to each other."

And Madame Lorilleux replied:

"I shall be only too happy if we're so always."

When she had entered Lorilleux also stopped at the threshold and he
likewise waited to be embraced before penetrating into the shop.
Neither the one nor the other had brought a bouquet. They had decided
not to do so as they thought it would look too much like giving way to
Clump-Clump if they carried flowers with them the first time they set
foot in her home. Gervaise called to Augustine to bring two bottles of
wine. Then, filling some glasses on a corner of the table, she called
everyone to her. And each took a glass and drank to the good
friendship of the family. There was a pause whilst the guests were
drinking, the ladies raising their elbows and emptying their glasses
to the last drop.

"Nothing is better before soup," declared Boche, smacking his lips.

Mother Coupeau had placed herself opposite the door to see the faces
the Lorilleuxs would make. She pulled Gervaise by the skirt and
dragged her into the back-room. And as they both leant over the soup
they conversed rapidly in a low voice.

"Huh! What a sight!" said the old woman. "You couldn't see them; but I
was watching. When she caught sight of the table her face twisted
around like that, the corners of her mouth almost touched her eyes;
and as for him, it nearly choked him, he coughed and coughed. Now just
look at them over there; they've no saliva left in their mouths,
they're chewing their lips."

"It's quite painful to see people as jealous as that," murmured
Gervaise.

Really the Lorilleuxs had a funny look about them. No one of course
likes to be crushed; in families especially when the one succeeds, the
others do not like it; that is only natural. Only one keeps it in, one
does not make an exhibition of oneself. Well! The Lorilleuxs could not
keep it in. It was more than a match for them. They squinted--their
mouths were all on one side. In short it was so apparent that the
other guests looked at them, and asked them if they were unwell. Never
would they be able to stomach this table with its fourteen place-
settings, its white linen table cloth, its slices of bread cut in
advance, all in the style of a first-class restaurant. Mme. Lorilleux
went around the table, surreptitiously fingering the table cloth,
tortured by the thought that it was a new one.

"Everything's ready!" cried Gervaise as she reappeared with a smile,
her arms bare and her little fair curls blowing over her temples.

"If the boss would only come," resumed the laundress, "we might
begin."

"Ah, well!" said Madame Lorilleux, "the soup will be cold by then.
Coupeau always forgets. You shouldn't have let him go off."

It was already half-past six. Everything was burning now; the goose
would be overdone. Then Gervaise, feeling quite dejected, talked of
sending someone to all the wineshops in the neighborhood to find
Coupeau. And as Goujet offered to go, she decided to accompany him.
Virginie, anxious about her husband went also. The three of them,
bareheaded, quite blocked up the pavement. The blacksmith who wore his
frock-coat, had Gervaise on his left arm and Virginie on his right; he
was doing the two-handled basket as he said; and it seemed to them
such a funny thing to say that they stopped, unable to move their legs
for laughing. They looked at themselves in the pork-butcher's glass
and laughed more than ever. Beside Goujet, all in black, the two women
looked like two speckled hens--the dressmaker in her muslin costume,
sprinkled with pink flowers, the laundress in her white cambric dress
with blue spots, her wrists bare, and wearing round her neck a little
grey silk scarf tied in a bow. People turned round to see them pass,
looking so fresh and lively, dressed in their Sunday best on a week
day and jostling the crowd which hung about the Rue des Poissonniers,
on that warm June evening. But it was not a question of amusing
themselves. They went straight to the door of each wineshop, looked
in and sought amongst the people standing before the counter. Had that
animal Coupeau gone to the Arc de Triomphe to get his dram? They had
already done the upper part of the street, looking in at all the
likely places; at the "Little Civet," renowned for its preserved
plums; at old mother Baquet's, who sold Orleans wine at eight sous; at
the "Butterfly," the coachmen's house of call, gentlemen who were not
easy to please. But no Coupeau. Then as they were going down towards
the Boulevard, Gervaise uttered a faint cry on passing the eating-
house at the corner kept by Francois.

"What's the matter?" asked Goujet.

The laundress no longer laughed. She was very pale, and laboring under
so great an emotion that she had almost fallen. Virginie understood it
all as she caught a sight of Lantier seated at one of Francois's
tables quietly dining. The two women dragged the blacksmith along.

"My ankle twisted," said Gervaise as soon as she was able to speak.

At length they discovered Coupeau and Poisson at the bottom of the
street inside Pere Colombe's l'Assommoir. They were standing up in the
midst of a number of men; Coupeau, in a grey blouse, was shouting with
furious gestures and banging his fists down on the counter. Poisson,
not on duty that day and buttoned up in an old brown coat, was
listening to him in a dull sort of way and without uttering a word,
bristling his carroty moustaches and beard the while. Goujet left the
women on the edge of the pavement, and went and laid his hand on the
zinc-worker's shoulder. But when the latter caught sight of Gervaise
and Virginie outside he grew angry. Why was he badgered with such
females as those? Petticoats had taken to tracking him about now!
Well! He declined to stir, they could go and eat their beastly dinner
all by themselves. To quiet him Goujet was obliged to accept a drop of
something; and even then Coupeau took a fiendish delight in dawdling a
good five minutes at the counter. When he at length came out he said
to his wife:

"I don't like this. It's my business where I go. Do you understand?"

She did not answer. She was all in a tremble. She must have said
something about Lantier to Virginie, for the latter pushed her husband
and Goujet ahead, telling them to walk in front. The two women got on
each side of Coupeau to keep him occupied and prevent him seeing
Lantier. He wasn't really drunk, being more intoxicated from shouting
than from drinking. Since they seemed to want to stay on the left
side, to tease them, he crossed over to the other side of the street.
Worried, they ran after him and tried to block his view of the door of
Francois's. But Coupeau must have known that Lantier was there.
Gervaise almost went out of her senses on hearing him grunt:

"Yes, my duck, there's a young fellow of our acquaintance inside
there! You mustn't take me for a ninny. Don't let me catch you
gallivanting about again with your side glances!"

And he made use of some very coarse expressions. It was not him that
she had come to look for with her bare elbows and her mealy mouth; it
was her old beau. Then he was suddenly seized with a mad rage against
Lantier. Ah! the brigand! Ah! the filthy hound! One or the other of
them would have to be left on the pavement, emptied of his guts like a
rabbit. Lantier, however, did not appear to notice what was going on
and continued slowly eating some veal and sorrel. A crowd began to
form. Virginie led Coupeau away and he calmed down at once as soon as
he had turned the corner of the street. All the same they returned to
the shop far less lively than when they left it.

The guests were standing round the table with very long faces. The
zinc-worker shook hands with them, showing himself off before the
ladies. Gervaise, feeling rather depressed, spoke in a low voice as
she directed them to their places. But she suddenly noticed that, as
Madame Goujet had not come, a seat would remain empty--the one next to
Madame Lorilleux.

"We are thirteen!" said she, deeply affected, seeing in that a fresh
omen of the misfortune with which she had felt herself threatened for
some time past.

The ladies already seated rose up looking anxious and annoyed. Madame
Putois offered to retire because according to her it was not a matter
to laugh about; besides she would not touch a thing, the food would do
her no good. As to Boche, he chuckled. He would sooner be thirteen
than fourteen; the portions would be larger, that was all.

"Wait!" resumed Gervaise. "I can manage it."

And going out on to the pavement she called Pere Bru who was just then
crossing the roadway. The old workman entered, stooping and stiff and
his face without expression.

"Seat yourself there, my good fellow," said the laundress. "You won't
mind eating with us, will you?"

He simply nodded his head. He was willing; he did not mind.

"As well him as another," continued she, lowering her voice. "He
doesn't often eat his fill. He will at least enjoy himself once more.
We shall feel no remorse in stuffing ourselves now."

This touched Goujet so deeply that his eyes filled with tears. The
others were also moved by compassion and said that it would bring them
all good luck. However, Madame Lorilleux seemed unhappy at having the
old man next to her. She cast glances of disgust at his work-roughened
hands and his faded, patched smock, and drew away from him.

Pere Bru sat with his head bowed, waiting. He was bothered by the
napkin that was on the plate before him. Finally he lifted it off and
placed it gently on the edge of the table, not thinking to spread it
over his knees.

Now at last Gervaise served the vermicelli soup; the guests were
taking up their spoons when Virginie remarked that Coupeau had
disappeared. He had perhaps returned to Pere Colombe's. This time the
company got angry. So much the worse! One would not run after him; he
could stay in the street if he was not hungry; and as the spoons
touched the bottom of the plates, Coupeau reappeared with two pots of
flowers, one under each arm, a stock and a balsam. They all clapped
their hands. He gallantly placed the pots, one on the right, the other
on the left of Gervaise's glass; then bending over and kissing her, he
said:

"I had forgotten you, my lamb. But in spite of that, we love each
other all the same, especially on such a day as this."

"Monsieur Coupeau's very nice this evening," murmured Clemence in
Boche's ear. "He's just got what he required, sufficient to make him
amiable."

The good behavior of the master of the house restored the gaiety of
the proceedings, which at one moment had been compromised. Gervaise,
once more at her ease, was all smiles again. The guests finished their
soup. Then the bottles circulated and they drank their first glass of
wine, just a drop pure, to wash down the vermicelli. One could hear
the children quarrelling in the next room. There were Etienne,
Pauline, Nana and little Victor Fauconnier. It had been decided to lay
a table for the four of them, and they had been told to be very good.
That squint-eyed Augustine who had to look after the stoves was to eat
off her knees.

"Mamma! Mamma!" suddenly screamed Nana, "Augustine is dipping her
bread in the Dutch oven!"

The laundress hastened there and caught the squint-eyed one in the act
of burning her throat in her attempts to swallow without loss of time
a slice of bread soaked in boiling goose fat. She boxed her ears when
the young monkey called out that it was not true. When, after the
boiled beef, the stewed veal appeared, served in a salad-bowl, as they
did not have a dish large enough, the party greeted it with a laugh.

"It's becoming serious," declared Poisson, who seldom spoke.

It was half-past seven. They had closed the shop door, so as not to be
spied upon by the whole neighborhood; the little clockmaker opposite
especially was opening his eyes to their full size and seemed to take
the pieces from their mouths with such a gluttonous look that it
almost prevented them from eating. The curtains hung before the
windows admitted a great white uniform light which bathed the entire
table with its symmetrical arrangement of knives and forks and its
pots of flowers enveloped in tall collars of white paper; and this
pale fading light, this slowly approaching dusk, gave to the party
somewhat of an air of distinction. Virginie looked round the closed
apartment hung with muslin and with a happy criticism declared it to
be very cozy. Whenever a cart passed in the street the glasses jingled
together on the table cloth and the ladies were obliged to shout out
as loud as the men. But there was not much conversation; they all
behaved very respectably and were very attentive to each other.
Coupeau alone wore a blouse, because as he said one need not stand on
ceremony with friends and besides which the blouse was the workman's
garb of honor. The ladies, laced up in their bodices, wore their hair
in plaits greasy with pomatum in which the daylight was reflected;
whilst the gentlemen, sitting at a distance from the table, swelled
out their chests and kept their elbows wide apart for fear of staining
their frock coats.

Ah! thunder! What a hole they were making in the stewed veal! If they
spoke little, they were chewing in earnest. The salad-bowl was
becoming emptier and emptier with a spoon stuck in the midst of the
thick sauce--a good yellow sauce which quivered like a jelly. They
fished pieces of veal out of it and seemed as though they would never
come to the end; the salad-bowl journeyed from hand to hand and faces
bent over it as forks picked out the mushrooms. The long loaves
standing against the wall behind the guests appeared to melt away.
Between the mouthfuls one could hear the sound of glasses being
replaced on the table. The sauce was a trifle too salty. It required
four bottles of wine to drown that blessed stewed veal, which went
down like cream, but which afterwards lit up a regular conflagration
in one's stomach. And before one had time to take a breath, the pig's
back, in the middle of a deep dish surrounded by big round potatoes,
arrived in the midst of a cloud of smoke. There was one general cry.
By Jove! It was just the thing! Everyone liked it. They would do it
justice; and they followed the dish with a side glance as they wiped
their knives on their bread so as to be in readiness. Then as soon as
they were helped they nudged one another and spoke with their mouths
full. It was just like butter! Something sweet and solid which one
could feel run through one's guts right down into one's boots. The
potatoes were like sugar. It was not a bit salty; only, just on
account of the potatoes, it required a wetting every few minutes. Four
more bottles were placed on the table. The plates were wiped so clean
that they also served for the green peas and bacon. Oh! vegetables
were of no consequence. They playfully gulped them down in spoonfuls.
The best part of the dish was the small pieces of bacon just nicely
grilled and smelling like horse's hoof. Two bottles were sufficient
for them.

"Mamma! Mamma!" called out Nana suddenly, "Augustine's putting her
fingers in my plate!"

"Don't bother me! give her a slap!" replied Gervaise, in the act of
stuffing herself with green peas.

At the children's table in the back-room, Nana was playing the role of
lady of the house, sitting next to Victor and putting her brother
Etienne beside Pauline so they could play house, pretending they were
two married couples. Nana had served her guests very politely at
first, but now she had given way to her passion for grilled bacon,
trying to keep every piece for herself. While Augustine was prowling
around the children's table, she would grab the bits of bacon under
the pretext of dividing them amongst the children. Nana was so furious
that she bit Augustine on the wrist.

"Ah! you know," murmured Augustine, "I'll tell your mother that after
the veal you asked Victor to kiss you."

But all became quiet again as Gervaise and mother Coupeau came in to
get the goose. The guests at the big table were leaning back in their
chairs taking a breather. The men had unbuttoned their waistcoats, the
ladies were wiping their faces with their napkins. The repast was, so
to say, interrupted; only one or two persons, unable to keep their
jaws still, continued to swallow large mouthfuls of bread, without
even knowing that they were doing so. The others were waiting and
allowing their food to settle while waiting for the main course. Night
was slowly coming on; a dirty ashy grey light was gathering behind the
curtains. When Augustine brought two lamps and placed one at each end
of the table, the general disorder became apparent in the bright glare
--the greasy forks and plates, the table cloth stained with wine and
covered with crumbs. A strong stifling odor pervaded the room. Certain
warm fumes, however, attracted all the noses in the direction of the
kitchen.

"Can I help you?" cried Virginie.

She left her chair and passed into the inner room. All the women
followed one by one. They surrounded the Dutch oven, and watched with
profound interest as Gervaise and mother Coupeau tried to pull the
bird out. Then a clamor arose, in the midst of which one could
distinguish the shrill voices and the joyful leaps of the children.
And there was a triumphal entry. Gervaise carried the goose, her arms
stiff, and her perspiring face expanded in one broad silent laugh; the
women walked behind her, laughing in the same way; whilst Nana, right
at the end, raised herself up to see, her eyes open to their full
extent. When the enormous golden goose, streaming with gravy, was on
the table, they did not attack it at once. It was a wonder, a
respectful wonderment, which for a moment left everyone speechless.
They drew one another's attention to it with winks and nods of the
head. Golly! What a bird!

"That one didn't get fat by licking the walls, I'll bet!" said Boche.

Then they entered into details respecting the bird. Gervaise gave the
facts. It was the best she could get at the poulterer's in the
Faubourg Poissonniers; it weighed twelve and a half pounds on the
scales at the charcoal-dealer's; they had burnt nearly half a bushel
of charcoal in cooking it, and it had given three bowls full of
drippings.

Virginie interrupted her to boast of having seen it before it was
cooked. "You could have eaten it just as it was," she said, "its skin
was so fine, like the skin of a blonde." All the men laughed at this,
smacking their lips. Lorilleux and Madame Lorilleux sniffed
disdainfully, almost choking with rage to see such a goose on Clump-
Clump's table.

"Well! We can't eat it whole," the laundress observed. "Who'll cut it
up? No, no, not me! It's too big; I'm afraid of it."

Coupeau offered his services. /Mon Dieu!/ it was very simple. You
caught hold of the limbs, and pulled them off; the pieces were good
all the same. But the others protested; they forcibly took possession
of the large kitchen knife which the zinc-worker already held in his
hand, saying that whenever he carved he made a regular graveyard of
the platter. Finally, Madame Lerat suggested in a friendly tone:

"Listen, it should be Monsieur Poisson; yes, Monsieur Poisson."

But, as the others did not appear to understand, she added in a more
flattering manner still:

"Why, yes, of course, it should be Monsieur Poisson, who's accustomed
to the use of arms."

And she passed the kitchen knife to the policeman. All round the table
they laughed with pleasure and approval. Poisson bowed his head with
military stiffness, and moved the goose before him. When he thrust the
knife into the goose, which cracked, Lorilleux was seized with an
outburst of patriotism.

"Ah! if it was a Cossack!" he cried.

"Have you ever fought with Cossacks, Monsieur Poisson?" asked Madame
Boche.

"No, but I have with Bedouins," replied the policeman, who was cutting
off a wing. "There are no more Cossacks."

A great silence ensued. Necks were stretched out as every eye followed
the knife. Poisson was preparing a surprise. Suddenly he gave a last
cut; the hind-quarter of the bird came off and stood up on end, rump
in the air, making a bishop's mitre. Then admiration burst forth. None
were so agreeable in company as retired soldiers.

The policeman allowed several minutes for the company to admire the
bishop's mitre and then finished cutting the slices and arranging them
on the platter. The carving of the goose was now complete.

When the ladies complained that they were getting rather warm, Coupeau
opened the door to the street and the gaiety continued against the
background of cabs rattling down the street and pedestrians bustling
along the pavement. The goose was attacked furiously by the rested
jaws. Boche remarked that just having to wait and watch the goose
being carved had been enough to make the veal and pork slide down to
his ankles.

Then ensued a famous tuck-in; that is to say, not one of the party
recollected ever having before run the risk of such a stomach-ache.
Gervaise, looking enormous, her elbows on the table, ate great pieces
of breast, without uttering a word, for fear of losing a mouthful, and
merely felt slightly ashamed and annoyed at exhibiting herself thus,
as gluttonous as a cat before Goujet. Goujet, however, was too busy
stuffing himself to notice that she was all red with eating. Besides,
in spite of her greediness, she remained so nice and good! She did not
speak, but she troubled herself every minute to look after Pere Bru,
and place some dainty bit on his plate. It was even touching to see
this glutton take a piece of wing almost from her mouth to give it to
the old fellow, who did not appear to be very particular, and who
swallowed everything with bowed head, almost besotted from having
gobbled so much after he had forgotten the taste of bread. The
Lorilleuxs expended their rage on the roast goose; they ate enough to
last them three days; they would have stowed away the dish, the table,
the very shop, if they could have ruined Clump-Clump by doing so. All
the ladies had wanted a piece of the breast, traditionally the ladies'
portion. Madame Lerat, Madame Boche, Madame Putois, were all picking
bones; whilst mother Coupeau, who adored the neck, was tearing off the
flesh with her two last teeth. Virginie liked the skin when it was
nicely browned, and the other guests gallantly passed their skin to
her; so much so, that Poisson looked at his wife severely, and bade
her stop, because she had had enough as it was. Once already, she had
been a fortnight in bed, with her stomach swollen out, through having
eaten too much roast goose. But Coupeau got angry and helped Virginie
to the upper part of a leg, saying that, by Jove's thunder! if she did
not pick it, she wasn't a proper woman. Had roast goose ever done harm
to anybody? On the contrary, it cured all complaints of the spleen.
One could eat it without bread, like dessert. He could go on
swallowing it all night without being the least bit inconvenienced;
and, just to show off, he stuffed a whole drum-stick into his mouth.
Meanwhile, Clemence had got to the end of the rump, and was sucking it
with her lips, whilst she wriggled with laughter on her chair because
Boche was whispering all sorts of smutty things to her. Ah, by Jove!
Yes, there was a dinner! When one's at it, one's at it, you know; and
if one only has the chance now and then, one would be precious stupid
not to stuff oneself up to one's ears. Really, one could see their
sides puff out by degrees. They were cracking in their skins, the
blessed gormandizers! With their mouths open, their chins besmeared
with grease, they had such bloated red faces that one would have said
they were bursting with prosperity.

As for the wine, well, that was flowing as freely around the table as
water flows in the Seine. It was like a brook overflowing after a
rainstorm when the soil is parched. Coupeau raised the bottle high
when pouring to see the red jet foam in the glass. Whenever he emptied
a bottle, he would turn it upside down and shake it. One more dead
solder! In a corner of the laundry the pile of dead soldiers grew
larger and larger, a veritable cemetery of bottles onto which other
debris from the table was tossed.

Coupeau became indignant when Madame Putois asked for water. He took
all the water pitchers from the table. Do respectable citizens ever
drink water? Did she want to grow frogs in her stomach?

Many glasses were emptied at one gulp. You could hear the liquid
gurgling its way down the throats like rainwater in a drainpipe after
a storm. One might say it was raining wine. /Mon Dieu!/ the juice of
the grape was a remarkable invention. Surely the workingman couldn't
get along without his wine. Papa Noah must have planted his grapevine
for the benefit of zinc-workers, tailors and blacksmiths. It
brightened you up and refreshed you after a hard day's work.

Coupeau was in a high mood. He proclaimed that all the ladies present
were very cute, and jingled the three sous in his pocket as if they
had been five-franc pieces.

Even Goujet, who was ordinarily very sober, had taken plenty of wine.
Boche's eyes were narrowing, those of Lorilleux were paling, and
Poisson was developing expressions of stern severity on his soldierly
face. All the men were as drunk as lords and the ladies had reached a
certain point also, feeling so warm that they had to loosen their
clothes. Only Clemence carried this a bit too far.

Suddenly Gervaise recollected the six sealed bottles of wine. She had
forgotten to put them on the table with the goose; she fetched them,
and all the glasses were filled. Then Poisson rose, and holding his
glass in the air, said:

"I drink to the health of the missus."

All of them stood up, making a great noise with their chairs as they
moved. Holding out their arms, they clinked glasses in the midst of an
immense uproar.

"Here's to this day fifty years hence!" cried Virginie.

"No, no," replied Gervaise, deeply moved and smiling; "I shall be too
old. Ah! a day comes when one's glad to go."

Through the door, which was wide open, the neighborhood was looking on
and taking part in the festivities. Passers-by stopped in the broad
ray of light which shone over the pavement, and laughed heartily at
seeing all these people stuffing away so jovially.

The aroma from the roasted goose brought joy to the whole street. The
clerks on the sidewalk opposite thought they could almost taste the
bird. Others came out frequently to stand in front of their shops,
sniffing the air and licking their lips. The little jeweler was unable
to work, dizzy from having counted so many bottles. He seemed to have
lost his head among his merry little cuckoo clocks.

Yes, the neighbors were devoured with envy, as Coupeau said. But why
should there be any secret made about the matter? The party, now
fairly launched, was no longer ashamed of being seen at table; on the
contrary, it felt flattered and excited at seeing the crowd gathered
there, gaping with gluttony; it would have liked to have knocked out
the shop-front and dragged the table into the road-way, and there to
have enjoyed the dessert under the very nose of the public, and amidst
the commotion of the thoroughfare. Nothing disgusting was to be seen
in them, was there? Then there was no need to shut themselves in like
selfish people. Coupeau, noticing the little clockmaker looked very
thirsty, held up a bottle; and as the other nodded his head, he
carried him the bottle and a glass. A fraternity was established in
the street. They drank to anyone who passed. They called in any chaps
who looked the right sort. The feast spread, extending from one to
another, to the degree that the entire neighborhood of the Goutte-d'Or
sniffed the grub, and held its stomach, amidst a rumpus worthy of the
devil and all his demons. For some minutes, Madame Vigouroux, the
charcoal-dealer, had been passing to and fro before the door.

"Hi! Madame Vigouroux! Madame Vigouroux!" yelled the party.

She entered with a broad grin on her face, which was washed for once,
and so fat that the body of her dress was bursting. The men liked
pinching her, because they might pinch her all over without ever
encountering a bone. Boche made room for her beside him and reached
slyly under the table to grab her knee. But she, being accustomed to
that sort of thing, quietly tossed off a glass of wine, and related
that all the neighbors were at their windows, and that some of the
people of the house were beginning to get angry.

"Oh, that's our business," said Madame Boche. "We're the concierges,
aren't we? Well, we're answerable for good order. Let them come and
complain to us, we'll receive them in a way they don't expect."

In the back-room there had just been a furious fight between Nana and
Augustine, on account of the Dutch oven, which both wanted to scrape
out. For a quarter of an hour, the Dutch oven had rebounded over the
tile floor with the noise of an old saucepan. Nana was now nursing
little Victor, who had a goose-bone in his throat. She pushed her
fingers under his chin, and made him swallow big lumps of sugar by way
of a remedy. That did not prevent her keeping an eye on the big table.
At every minute she came and asked for wine, bread, or meat, for
Etienne and Pauline, she said.

"Here! Burst!" her mother would say to her. "Perhaps you'll leave us
in peace now!"

The children were scarcely able to swallow any longer, but they
continued to eat all the same, banging their forks down on the table
to the tune of a canticle, in order to excite themselves.

In the midst of the noise, however, a conversation was going on
between Pere Bru and mother Coupeau. The old fellow, who was ghastly
pale in spite of the wine and the food, was talking of his sons who
had died in the Crimea. Ah! if the lads had only lived, he would have
had bread to eat every day. But mother Coupeau, speaking thickly,
leant towards him and said:

"Ah! one has many worries with children! For instance, I appear to be
happy here, don't I? Well! I cry more often than you think. No, don't
wish you still had your children."

Pere Bru shook his head.

"I can't get work anywhere," murmured he. "I'm too old. When I enter a
workshop the young fellows joke, and ask me if I polished Henri IV.'s
boots. To-day it's all over; they won't have me anywhere. Last year I
could still earn thirty sous a day painting a bridge. I had to lie on
my back with the river flowing under me. I've had a bad cough ever
since then. Now, I'm finished."

He looked at his poor stiff hands and added:

"It's easy to understand, I'm no longer good for anything. They're
right; were I in their place I should do the same. You see, the
misfortune is that I'm not dead. Yes, it's my fault. One should lie
down and croak when one's no longer able to work."

"Really," said Lorilleux, who was listening, "I don't understand why
the Government doesn't come to the aid of the invalids of labor. I was
reading that in a newspaper the other day."

But Poisson thought it his duty to defend the Government.

"Workmen are not soldiers," declared he. "The Invalides is for
soldiers. You must not ask for what is impossible."

Dessert was now served. In the centre of the table was a Savoy cake in
the form of a temple, with a dome fluted with melon slices; and this
dome was surmounted by an artificial rose, close to which was a silver
paper butterfly, fluttering at the end of a wire. Two drops of gum in
the centre of the flower imitated dew. Then, to the left, a piece of
cream cheese floated in a deep dish; whilst in another dish to the
right, were piled up some large crushed strawberries, with the juice
running from them. However, there was still some salad left, some
large coss lettuce leaves soaked with oil.

"Come, Madame Boche," said Gervaise, coaxingly, "a little more salad.
I know how fond you are of it."

"No, no, thank you! I've already had as much as I can manage," replied
the concierge.

The laundress turning towards Virginie, the latter put her finger in
her mouth, as though to touch the food she had taken.

"Really, I'm full," murmured she. "There's no room left. I couldn't
swallow a mouthful."

"Oh! but if you tried a little," resumed Gervaise with a smile. "One
can always find a tiny corner empty. Once doesn't need to be hungry to
be able to eat salad. You're surely not going to let this be wasted?"

"You can eat it to-morrow," said Madame Lerat; "it's nicer when its
wilted."

The ladies sighed as they looked regretfully at the salad-bowl.
Clemence related that she had one day eaten three bunches of
watercresses at her lunch. Madame Putois could do more than that, she
would take a coss lettuce and munch it up with some salt just as it
was without separating the leaves. They could all have lived on salad,
would have treated themselves to tubfuls. And, this conversation
aiding, the ladies cleaned out the salad-bowl.

"I could go on all fours in a meadow," observed the concierge with her
mouth full.

Then they chuckled together as they eyed the dessert. Dessert did not
count. It came rather late but that did not matter; they would nurse
it all the same. When you're that stuffed, you can't let yourself be
stopped by strawberries and cake. There was no hurry. They had the
entire night if they wished. So they piled their plates with
strawberries and cream cheese. Meanwhile the men lit their pipes. They
were drinking the ordinary wine while they smoked since the special
wine had been finished. Now they insisted that Gervaise cut the Savoy
cake. Poisson got up and took the rose from the cake and presented it
in his most gallant manner to the hostess amidst applause from the
other guests. She pinned it over her left breast, near the heart. The
silver butterfly fluttered with her every movement.

"Well, look," exclaimed Lorilleux, who had just made a discovery,
"it's your work-table that we're eating off! Ah, well! I daresay it's
never seen so much work before!"

This malicious joke had a great success. Witty allusions came from all
sides. Clemence could not swallow a spoonful of strawberries without
saying that it was another shirt ironed; Madame Lerat pretended that
the cream cheese smelt of starch; whilst Madame Lorilleux said between
her teeth that it was capital fun to gobble up the money so quickly on
the very boards on which one had had so much trouble to earn it. There
was quite a tempest of shouts and laughter.

But suddenly a loud voice called for silence. It was Boche who,
standing up in an affected and vulgar way, was commencing to sing "The
Volcano of Love, or the Seductive Trooper."

A thunder of applause greeted the first verse. Yes, yes, they would
sing songs! Everyone in turn. It was more amusing than anything else.
And they all put their elbows on the table or leant back in their
chairs, nodding their heads at the best parts and sipping their wine
when they came to the choruses. That rogue Boche had a special gift
for comic songs. He would almost make the water pitchers laugh when he
imitated the raw recruit with his fingers apart and his hat on the
back of his head. Directly after "The Volcano of Love," he burst out
into "The Baroness de Follebiche," one of his greatest successes. When
he reached the third verse he turned towards Clemence and almost
murmured it in a slow and voluptuous tone of voice:

  "The baroness had people there,
     Her sisters four, oh! rare surprise;
   And three were dark, and one was fair;
     Between them, eight bewitching eyes."

Then the whole party, carried away, joined in the chorus. The men beat
time with their heels, whilst the ladies did the same with their
knives against their glasses. All of them singing at the top of their
voices:

  "By Jingo! who on earth will pay
     A drink to the pa--to the pa--pa--?
   By Jingo! who on earth will pay
     A drink to the pa--to the pa--tro--o--l?"

The panes of glass of the shop-front resounded, the singers' great
volume of breath agitated the muslin curtains. Whilst all this was
going on, Virginie had already twice disappeared and each time, on
returning, had leant towards Gervaise's ear to whisper a piece of
information. When she returned the third time, in the midst of the
uproar, she said to her:

"My dear, he's still at Francois's; he's pretending to read the
newspaper. He's certainly meditating some evil design."

She was speaking of Lantier. It was him that she had been watching. At
each fresh report Gervaise became more and more grave.

"Is he drunk?" asked she of Virginie.

"No," replied the tall brunette. "He looks as though he had merely had
what he required. It's that especially which makes me anxious. Why
does he remain there if he's had all he wanted? /Mon Dieu!/ I hope
nothing is going to happen!"

The laundress, greatly upset, begged her to leave off. A profound
silence suddenly succeeded the clamor. Madame Putois had just risen
and was about to sing "The Boarding of the Pirate." The guests, silent
and thoughtful, watched her; even Poisson had laid his pipe down on
the edge of the table the better to listen to her. She stood up to the
full height of her little figure, with a fierce expression about her,
though her face looked quite pale beneath her black cap; she thrust
out her left fist with a satisfied pride as she thundered in a voice
bigger than herself:

  "If the pirate audacious
   Should o'er the waves chase us,
   The buccaneer slaughter,
   Accord him no quarter.
   To the guns every man,
   And with rum fill each can!
   While these pests of the seas
   Dangle from the cross-trees."

That was something serious. By Jove! it gave one a fine idea of the
real thing. Poisson, who had been on board ship nodded his head in
approval of the description. One could see too that that song was in
accordance with Madame Putois's own feeling. Coupeau then told how
Madame Putois, one evening on Rue Poulet, had slapped the face of four
men who sought to attack her virtue.

With the assistance of mother Coupeau, Gervaise was now serving the
coffee, though some of the guests had not yet finished their Savoy
cake. They would not let her sit down again, but shouted that it was
her turn. With a pale face, and looking very ill at ease, she tried to
excuse herself; she seemed so queer that someone inquired whether the
goose had disagreed with her. She finally gave them "Oh! let me
slumber!" in a sweet and feeble voice. When she reached the chorus
with its wish for a sleep filled with beautiful dreams, her eyelids
partly closed and her rapt gaze lost itself in the darkness of the
street.

Poisson stood next and with an abrupt bow to the ladies, sang a
drinking song: "The Wines of France." But his voice wasn't very
musical and only the final verse, a patriotic one mentioning the
tricolor flag, was a success. Then he raised his glass high, juggled
it a moment, and poured the contents into his open mouth.

Then came a string of ballads; Madame Boche's barcarolle was all about
Venice and the gondoliers; Madame Lorilleux sang of Seville and the
Andalusians in her bolero; whilst Lorilleux went so far as to allude
to the perfumes of Arabia, in reference to the loves of Fatima the
dancer.

Golden horizons were opening up all around the heavily laden table.
The men were smoking their pipes and the women unconsciously smiling
with pleasure. All were dreaming they were far away.

Clemence began to sing softly "Let's Make a Nest" with a tremolo in
her voice which pleased them greatly for it made them think of the
open country, of songbirds, of dancing beneath an arbor, and of
flowers. In short, it made them think of the Bois de Vincennes when
they went there for a picnic.

But Virginie revived the joking with "My Little Drop of Brandy." She
imitated a camp follower, with one hand on her hip, the elbow arched
to indicate the little barrel; and with the other hand she poured out
the brandy into space by turning her fist round. She did it so well
that the party then begged mother Coupeau to sing "The Mouse." The old
woman refused, vowing that she did not know that naughty song. Yet she
started off with the remnants of her broken voice; and her wrinkled
face with its lively little eyes underlined the allusions, the terrors
of Mademoiselle Lise drawing her skirts around her at the sight of a
mouse. All the table laughed; the women could not keep their
countenances, and continued casting bright glances at their neighbors;
it was not indecent after all, there were no coarse words in it. All
during the song Boche was playing mouse up and down the legs of the
lady coal-dealer. Things might have gotten a bit out of line if
Goujet, in response to a glance from Gervaise, had not brought back
the respectful silence with "The Farewell of Abdul-Kader," which he
sang out loudly in his bass voice. The song rang out from his golden
beard as if from a brass trumpet. All the hearts skipped a beat when
he cried, "Ah, my noble comrade!" referring to the warrior's black
mare. They burst into applause even before the end.

"Now, Pere Bru, it's your turn!" said mother Coupeau. "Sing your song.
The old ones are the best any day!"

And everybody turned towards the old man, pressing him and encouraging
him. He, in a state of torpor, with his immovable mask of tanned skin,
looked at them without appearing to understand. They asked him if he
knew the "Five Vowels." He held down his head; he could not recollect
it; all the songs of the good old days were mixed up in his head. As
they made up their minds to leave him alone, he seemed to remember,
and began to stutter in a cavernous voice:

  "Trou la la, trou la la,
   Trou la, trou la, trou la la!"

His face assumed an animated expression, this chorus seemed to awake
some far-off gaieties within him, enjoyed by himself alone, as he
listened with a childish delight to his voice which became more and
more hollow.

"Say there, my dear," Virginie came and whispered in Gervaise's ear,
"I've just been there again, you know. It worried me. Well! Lantier
has disappeared from Francois's."

"You didn't meet him outside?" asked the laundress.

"No, I walked quickly, not as if I was looking for him."

But Virginie raised her eyes, interrupted herself and heaved a
smothered sigh.

"Ah! /Mon Dieu!/ He's there, on the pavement opposite; he's looking
this way."

Gervaise, quite beside herself, ventured to glance in the direction
indicated. Some persons had collected in the street to hear the party
sing. And Lantier was indeed there in the front row, listening and
coolly looking on. It was rare cheek, everything considered. Gervaise
felt a chill ascend from her legs to her heart, and she no longer
dared to move, whilst old Bru continued:

  "Trou la la, trou la la,
   Trou la, trou la, trou la la!"

"Very good. Thank you, my ancient one, that's enough!" said Coupeau.
"Do you know the whole of it? You shall sing it for us another day
when we need something sad."

This raised a few laughs. The old fellow stopped short, glanced round
the table with his pale eyes and resumed his look of a meditative
animal. Coupeau called for more wine as the coffee was finished.
Clemence was eating strawberries again. With the pause in singing,
they began to talk about a woman who had been found hanging that
morning in the building next door. It was Madame Lerat's turn, but she
required to prepare herself. She dipped the corner of her napkin into
a glass of water and applied it to her temples because she was too
hot. Then, she asked for a thimbleful of brandy, drank it, and slowly
wiped her lips.

"The 'Child of God,' shall it be?" she murmured, "the 'Child of God.'"

And, tall and masculine-looking, with her bony nose and her shoulders
as square as a grenadier's she began:

  "The lost child left by its mother alone
   Is sure of a home in Heaven above,
   God sees and protects it on earth from His throne,
   The child that is lost is the child of God's love."

Her voice trembled at certain words, and dwelt on them in liquid
notes; she looked out of the corner of her eyes to heaven, whilst her
right hand swung before her chest or pressed against her heart with an
impressive gesture. Then Gervaise, tortured by Lantier's presence,
could not restrain her tears; it seemed to her that the song was
relating her own suffering, that she was the lost child, abandoned by
its mother, and whom God was going to take under his protection.
Clemence was now very drunk and she burst into loud sobbing and placed
her head down onto the table in an effort to smother her gasps. There
was a hush vibrant with emotion.

The ladies had pulled out their handkerchiefs, and were drying their
eyes, with their heads erect from pride. The men had bowed their heads
and were staring straight before them, blinking back their tears.
Poisson bit off the end of his pipe twice while gulping and gasping.
Boche, with two large tears trickling down his face, wasn't even
bothering to squeeze the coal-dealer's knee any longer. All these
drunk revelers were as soft-hearted as lambs. Wasn't the wine almost
coming out of their eyes? When the refrain began again, they all let
themselves go, blubbering into their plates.

But Gervaise and Virginie could not, in spite of themselves, take
their eyes off the pavement opposite. Madame Boche, in her turn,
caught sight of Lantier and uttered a faint cry without ceasing to
besmear her face with her tears. Then all three had very anxious faces
as they exchanged involuntary signs. /Mon Dieu!/ if Coupeau were to
turn round, if Coupeau caught sight of the other! What a butchery!
What carnage! And they went on to such an extent that the zinc-worker
asked them:

"Whatever are you looking at?"

He leant forward and recognized Lantier.

"Damnation! It's too much," muttered he. "Ah! the dirty scoundrel--ah!
the dirty scoundrel. No, it's too much, it must come to an end."

And as he rose from his seat muttering most atrocious threats,
Gervaise, in a low voice, implored him to keep quiet.

"Listen to me, I implore you. Leave the knife alone. Remain where you
are, don't do anything dreadful."

Virginie had to take the knife which he had picked up off the table
from him. But she could not prevent him leaving the shop and going up
to Lantier.

Those around the table saw nothing of this, so involved were they in
weeping over the song as Madame Lerat sang the last verse. It sounded
like a moaning wail of the wind and Madame Putois was so moved that
she spilled her wine over the table. Gervaise remained frozen with
fright, one hand tight against her lips to stifle her sobs. She
expected at any moment to see one of the two men fall unconscious in
the street.

As Coupeau rushed toward Lantier, he was so astonished by the fresh
air that he staggered, and Lantier, with his hands in his pockets,
merely took a step to the side. Now the two men were almost shouting
at each other, Coupeau calling the other a lousy pig and threatening
to make sausage of his guts. They were shouting loudly and angrily and
waving their arms violently. Gervaise felt faint and as it continued
for a while, she closed her eyes. Suddenly, she didn't hear any
shouting and opened her eyes. The two men were chatting amiably
together.

Madame Lerat's voice rose higher and higher, warbling another verse.

Gervaise exchanged a glance with Madame Boche and Virginie. Was it
going to end amicably then? Coupeau and Lantier continued to converse
on the edge of the pavement. They were still abusing each other, but
in a friendly way. As people were staring at them, they ended by
strolling leisurely side by side past the houses, turning round again
every ten yards or so. A very animated conversation was now taking
place. Suddenly Coupeau appeared to become angry again, whilst the
other was refusing something and required to be pressed. And it was
the zinc-worker who pushed Lantier along and who forced him to cross
the street and enter the shop.

"I tell you, you're quite welcome!" shouted he. "You'll take a glass
of wine. Men are men, you know. We ought to understand each other."

Madame Lerat was finishing the last chorus. The ladies were singing
all together as they twisted their handkerchiefs.

  "The child that is lost is the child of God's love."

The singer was greatly complimented and she resumed her seat affecting
to be quite broken down. She asked for something to drink because she
always put too much feeling into that song and she was constantly
afraid of straining her vocal chords. Everyone at the table now had
their eyes fixed on Lantier who, quietly seated beside Coupeau, was
devouring the last piece of Savoy cake which he dipped in his glass of
wine. With the exception of Virginie and Madame Boche none of the
guests knew him. The Lorilleuxs certainly scented some underhand
business, but not knowing what, they merely assumed their most
conceited air. Goujet, who had noticed Gervaise's emotion, gave the
newcomer a sour look. As an awkward pause ensued Coupeau simply said:

"A friend of mine."

And turning to his wife, added:

"Come, stir yourself! Perhaps there's still some hot coffee left."

Gervaise, feeling meek and stupid, looked at them one after the other.
At first, when her husband pushed her old lover into the shop, she
buried her head between her hands, the same as she instinctively did
on stormy days at each clap of thunder. She could not believe it
possible; the walls would fall in and crush them all. Then, when she
saw the two sitting together peacefully, she suddenly accepted it as
quite natural. A happy feeling of languor benumbed her, retained her
all in a heap at the edge of the table, with the sole desire of not
being bothered. /Mon Dieu!/ what is the use of putting oneself out
when others do not, and when things arrange themselves to the
satisfaction of everybody? She got up to see if there was any coffee
left.

In the back-room the children had fallen asleep. That squint-eyed
Augustine had tyrannized over them all during the dessert, pilfering
their strawberries and frightening them with the most abominable
threats. Now she felt very ill, and was bent double upon a stool, not
uttering a word, her face ghastly pale. Fat Pauline had let her head
fall against Etienne's shoulder, and he himself was sleeping on the
edge of the table. Nana was seated with Victor on the rug beside the
bedstead, she had passed her arm round his neck and was drawing him
towards her; and, succumbing to drowsiness and with her eyes shut, she
kept repeating in a feeble voice:

"Oh! Mamma, I'm not well; oh! mamma, I'm not well."

"No wonder!" murmured Augustine, whose head was rolling about on her
shoulders, "they're drunk; they've been singing like grown up
persons."

Gervaise received another blow on beholding Etienne. She felt as
though she would choke when she thought of the youngster's father
being there in the other room, eating cake, and that he had not even
expressed a desire to kiss the little fellow. She was on the point of
rousing Etienne and of carrying him there in her arms. Then she again
felt that the quiet way in which matters had been arranged was the
best. It would not have been proper to have disturbed the harmony of
the end of the dinner. She returned with the coffee-pot and poured out
a glass of coffee for Lantier, who, by the way, did not appear to take
any notice of her.

"Now, it's my turn," stuttered Coupeau, in a thick voice. "You've been
keeping the best for the last. Well! I'll sing you 'That Piggish
Child.'"

"Yes, yes, 'That Piggish Child,'" cried everyone.

The uproar was beginning again. Lantier was forgotten. The ladies
prepared their glasses and their knives for accompanying the chorus.
They laughed beforehand, as they looked at the zinc-worker, who
steadied himself on his legs as he put on his most vulgar air.
Mimicking the hoarse voice of an old woman, he sang:

  "When out of bed each morn I hop,
   I'm always precious queer;
   I send him for a little drop
   To the drinking-ken that's near.
   A good half hour or more he'll stay,
   And that makes me so riled,
   He swigs it half upon his way:
   What a piggish child!"

And the ladies, striking their glasses, repeated in chorus in the
midst of a formidable gaiety:

  "What a piggish child!
   What a piggish child!"

Even the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or itself joined in now. The whole
neighborhood was singing "What a piggish child!" The little
clockmaker, the grocery clerks, the tripe woman and the fruit woman
all knew the song and joined in the chorus. The entire street seemed
to be getting drunk on the odors from the Coupeau party. In the
reddish haze from the two lamps, the noise of the party was enough to
shut out the rumbling of the last vehicles in the street. Two
policemen rushed over, thinking there was a riot, but on recognizing
Poisson, they saluted him smartly and went away between the darkened
buildings.

Coupeau was now singing this verse:

  "On Sundays at Petite Villette,
   Whene'er the weather's fine,
   We call on uncle, old Tinette,
   Who's in the dustman line.
   To feast upon some cherry stones
   The young un's almost wild,
   And rolls amongst the dust and bones,
   What a piggish child!
   What a piggish child!"

Then the house almost collapsed, such a yell ascended in the calm warm
night air that the shouters applauded themselves, for it was useless
their hoping to be able to bawl any louder.

Not one of the party could ever recollect exactly how the carouse
terminated. It must have been very late, it's quite certain, for not a
cat was to be seen in the street. Possibly too, they had all joined
hands and danced round the table. But all was submerged in a yellow
mist, in which red faces were jumping about, with mouths slit from ear
to ear. They had probably treated themselves to something stronger
than wine towards the end, and there was a vague suspicion that some
one had played them the trick of putting salt into the glasses. The
children must have undressed and put themselves to bed. On the morrow,
Madame Boche boasted of having treated Boche to a couple of clouts in
a corner, where he was conversing a great deal too close to the
charcoal-dealer; but Boche, who recollected nothing, said she must
have dreamt it. Everyone agreed that it wasn't very decent the way
Clemence had carried on. She had ended by showing everything she had
and then been so sick that she had completely ruined one of the muslin
curtains. The men had at least the decency to go into the street;
Lorilleux and Poisson, feeling their stomachs upset, had stumblingly
glided as far as the pork-butcher's shop. It is easy to see when a
person has been well brought up. For instance, the ladies, Madame
Putois, Madame Lerat, and Virginie, indisposed by the heat, had simply
gone into the back-room and taken their stays off; Virginie had even
desired to lie on the bed for a minute, just to obviate any unpleasant
effects. Thus the party had seemed to melt away, some disappearing
behind the others, all accompanying one another, and being lost sight
of in the surrounding darkness, to the accompaniment of a final
uproar, a furious quarrel between the Lorilleuxs, and an obstinate and
mournful "trou la la, trou la la," of old Bru's. Gervaise had an idea
that Goujet had burst out sobbing when bidding her good-bye; Coupeau
was still singing; and as for Lantier, he must have remained till the
end. At one moment even, she could still feel a breath against her
hair, but she was unable to say whether it came from Lantier or if it
was the warm night air.

Since Madame Lerat didn't want to return to Les Batignolles at such a
late hour, they took one of the mattresses off the bed and spread it
for her in a corner of the shop, after pushing back the table. She
slept right there amid all the dinner crumbs. All night long, while
the Coupeaus were sleeping, a neighbor's cat took advantage of an open
window and was crunching the bones of the goose with its sharp teeth,
giving the bird its final resting place.



                             CHAPTER VIII

On the following Saturday Coupeau, who had not come home to dinner,
brought Lantier with him towards ten o'clock. They had had some
sheep's trotters at Chez Thomas at Montmartre.

"You mustn't scold, wife," said the zinc-worker. "We're sober, as you
can see. Oh! there's no fear with him; he keeps one on the straight
road."

And he related how they happened to meet in the Rue Rochechouart.
After dinner Lantier had declined to have a drink at the "Black Ball,"
saying that when one was married to a pretty and worthy little woman,
one ought not to go liquoring-up at all the wineshops. Gervaise
smiled slightly as she listened. Oh! she was not thinking of scolding,
she felt too much embarrassed for that. She had been expecting to see
her former lover again some day ever since their dinner party; but at
such an hour, when she was about to go to bed, the unexpected arrival
of the two men had startled her. Her hands were quivering as she
pinned back the hair which had slid down her neck.

"You know," resumed Coupeau, "as he was so polite as to decline a
drink outside, you must treat us to one here. Ah! you certainly owe us
that!"

The workwomen had left long ago. Mother Coupeau and Nana had just gone
to bed. Gervaise, who had been just about to put up the shutters when
they appeared, left the shop open and brought some glasses which she
placed on a corner of the work-table with what was left of a bottle of
brandy.

Lantier remained standing and avoided speaking directly to her.
However, when she served him, he exclaimed:

"Only a thimbleful, madame, if you please."

Coupeau looked at them and then spoke his mind very plainly. They were
not going to behave like a couple of geese he hoped! The past was past
was it not? If people nursed grudges for nine and ten years together
one would end by no longer seeing anybody. No, no, he carried his
heart in his hand, he did! First of all, he knew who he had to deal
with, a worthy woman and a worthy man--in short two friends! He felt
easy; he knew he could depend upon them.

"Oh! that's certain, quite certain," repeated Gervaise, looking on the
ground and scarcely understanding what she said.

"She is a sister now--nothing but a sister!" murmured Lantier in his
turn.

"/Mon Dieu!/ shake hands," cried Coupeau, "and let those who don't
like it go to blazes! When one has proper feelings one is better off
than millionaires. For myself I prefer friendship before everything
because friendship is friendship and there's nothing to beat it."

He dealt himself heavy blows on the chest, and seemed so moved that
they had to calm him. They all three silently clinked glasses, and
drank their drop of brandy. Gervaise was then able to look at Lantier
at her ease; for on the night of her saint's day, she had only seen
him through a fog. He had grown more stout, his arms and legs seeming
too heavy because of his small stature. His face was still handsome
even though it was a little puffy now due to his life of idleness. He
still took great pains with his narrow moustache. He looked about his
actual age. He was wearing grey trousers, a heavy blue overcoat, and a
round hat. He even had a watch with a silver chain on which a ring was
hanging as a keepsake. He looked quite like a gentleman.

"I'm off," said he. "I live no end of a distance from here."

He was already on the pavement when the zinc-worker called him back to
make him promise never to pass the door without looking in to wish
them good day. Meanwhile Gervaise, who had quietly disappeared,
returned pushing Etienne before her. The child, who was in his shirt-
sleeves and half asleep, smiled as he rubbed his eyes. But when he
beheld Lantier he stood trembling and embarrassed, and casting anxious
glances in the direction of his mother and Coupeau.

"Don't you remember this gentleman?" asked the latter.

The child held down his head without replying. Then he made a slight
sign which meant that he did remember the gentleman.

"Well! Then, don't stand there like a fool; go and kiss him."

Lantier gravely and quietly waited. When Etienne had made up his mind
to approach him, he stooped down, presented both his cheeks, and then
kissed the youngster on the forehead himself. At this the boy ventured
to look at his father; but all on a sudden he burst out sobbing and
scampered away like a mad creature with his clothes half falling off
him, whilst Coupeau angrily called him a young savage.

"The emotion's too much for him," said Gervaise, pale and agitated
herself.

"Oh! he's generally very gentle and nice," exclaimed Coupeau. "I've
brought him up properly, as you'll see. He'll get used to you. He must
learn to know people. We can't stay mad. We should have made up a long
time ago for his sake. I'd rather have my head cut off than keep a
father from seeing his own son."

Having thus delivered himself, he talked of finishing the bottle of
brandy. All three clinked glasses again. Lantier showed no surprise,
but remained perfectly calm. By way of repaying the zinc-worker's
politeness he persisted in helping him put up the shutters before
taking his departure. Then rubbing his hands together to get rid of
the dust on them, he wished the couple good-night.

"Sleep well. I shall try and catch the last bus. I promise you I'll
look in again soon."

After that evening Lantier frequently called at the Rue de la Goutte-
d'Or. He came when the zinc-worker was there, inquiring after his
health the moment he passed the door and affecting to have solely
called on his account. Then clean-shaven, his hair nicely combed and
always wearing his overcoat, he would take a seat by the window and
converse politely with the manners of an educated man. It was thus
that the Coupeaus learnt little by little the details of his life.
During the last eight years he had for a while managed a hat factory;
and when they asked him why he had retired from it he merely alluded
to the rascality of a partner, a fellow from his native place, a
scoundrel who had squandered all the takings with women. His former
position as an employer continued to affect his entire personality,
like a title of nobility that he could not abandon. He was always
talking of concluding a magnificent deal with some hatmakers who were
going to set him up in business. While waiting for this he did nothing
but stroll around all day like one of the idle rich. If anyone dared
to mention a hat factory looking for workers, he smiled and said he
was not interested in breaking his back working for others.

A smart fellow like Lantier, according to Coupeau, knew how to take
care of himself. He always looked prosperous and it took money to look
thus. He must have some deal going. One morning Coupeau had seen him
having his shoes shined on the Boulevard Montmartre. Lantier was very
talkative about others, but the truth was that he told lies about
himself. He would not even say where he lived, only that he was
staying with a friend and there was no use in coming to see him
because he was never in.

It was now early November. Lantier would gallantly bring bunches of
violets for Gervaise and the workwomen. He was now coming almost every
day. He won the favor of Clemence and Madame Putois with his little
attentions. At the end of the month they adored him. The Boches, whom
he flattered by going to pay his respects in their concierge's lodge,
went into ecstasies over his politeness.

As soon as the Lorilleuxs knew who he was, they howled at the
impudence of Gervaise in bringing her former lover into her home.
However, one day Lantier went to visit them and made such a good
impression when he ordered a necklace for a lady of his acquaintance
that they invited him to sit down. He stayed an hour and they were so
charmed by his conversation that they wondered how a man of such
distinction had ever lived with Clump-Clump. Soon Lantier's visits to
the Coupeaus were accepted as perfectly natural; he was in the good
graces of everyone along the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or. Goujet was the
only one who remained cold. If he happened to be there when Lantier
arrived, he would leave at once as he didn't want to be obliged to be
friendly to him.

In the midst, however, of all this extraordinary affection for
Lantier, Gervaise lived in a state of great agitation for the first
few weeks. She felt that burning sensation in the pit of her stomach
which affected her on the day when Virginie first alluded to her past
life. Her great fear was that she might find herself without strength,
if he came upon her all alone one night and took it into his head to
kiss her. She thought of him too much; she was for ever thinking of
him. But she gradually became calmer on seeing him behave so well,
never looking her in the face, never even touching her with the tips
of his fingers when no one was watching. Then Virginie, who seemed to
read within her, made her ashamed of all her wicked thoughts. Why did
she tremble? Once could not hope to come across a nicer man. She
certainly had nothing to fear now. And one day the tall brunette
maneuvered in such a way as to get them both into a corner, and to
turn the conversation to the subject of love. Lantier, choosing his
words, declared in a grave voice that his heart was dead, that for the
future he wished to consecrate his life solely for his son's
happiness. Every evening he would kiss Etienne on the forehead, yet he
was apt to forget him in teasing back and forth with Clemence. And he
never mentioned Claude who was still in the south. Gervaise began to
feel at ease. Lantier's actual presence overshadowed her memories, and
seeing him all the time, she no longer dreamed about him. She even
felt a certain repugnance at the thought of their former relationship.
Yes, it was over. If he dared to approach her, she'd box his ears, or
even better, she'd tell her husband. Once again her thoughts turned to
Goujet and his affection for her.

One morning Clemence reported that the previous night, at about eleven
o'clock, she had seen Monsieur Lantier with a woman. She told about it
maliciously and in coarse terms to see how Gervaise would react. Yes,
Monsieur Lantier was on the Rue Notre Dame de Lorette with a blonde
and she followed them. They had gone into a shop where the worn-out
and used-up woman had bought some shrimps. Then they went to the Rue
de La Rochefoucauld. Monsieur Lantier had waited on the pavement in
front of the house while his lady friend went in alone. Then she had
beckoned to him from the window to join her.

No matter how Clemence went on with the story Gervaise went on
peacefully ironing a white dress. Sometimes she smiled faintly. These
southerners, she said, are all crazy about women; they have to have
them no matter what, even if they come from a dung heap. When Lantier
came in that evening, Gervaise was amused when Clemence teased him
about the blonde. He seemed to feel flattered that he had been seen.
/Mon Dieu!/ she was just an old friend, he explained. He saw her from
time to time. She was quite stylish. He mentioned some of her former
lovers, among them a count, an important merchant and the son of a
lawyer. He added that a bit of playing around didn't mean a thing, his
heart was dead. In the end Clemence had to pay a price for her
meanness. She certainly felt Lantier pinching her hard two or three
times without seeming to do so. She was also jealous because she
didn't reek of musk like that boulevard work-horse.

When spring came, Lantier, who was now quite one of the family, talked
of living in the neighborhood, so as to be nearer his friends. He
wanted a furnished room in a decent house. Madame Boche, and even
Gervaise herself went searching about to find it for him. They
explored the neighboring streets. But he was always too difficult to
please; he required a big courtyard, a room on the ground floor; in
fact, every luxury imaginable. And then every evening, at the
Coupeaus', he seemed to measure the height of the ceilings, study the
arrangement of the rooms, and covet a similar lodging. Oh, he would
never have asked for anything better, he would willingly have made
himself a hole in that warm, quiet corner. Then each time he wound up
his inspection with these words:

"By Jove! you are comfortably situated here."

One evening, when he had dined there, and was making the same remark
during the dessert, Coupeau, who now treated him most familiarly,
suddenly exclaimed:

"You must stay here, old boy, if it suits you. It's easily arranged."

And he explained that the dirty-clothes room, cleaned out, would make
a nice apartment. Etienne could sleep in the shop, on a mattress on
the floor, that was all.

"No, no," said Lantier, "I cannot accept. It would inconvenience you
too much. I know that it's willingly offered, but we should be too
warm all jumbled up together. Besides, you know, each one likes his
liberty. I should have to go through your room, and that wouldn't be
exactly funny."

"Ah, the rogue!" resumed the zinc-worker, choking with laughter,
banging his fist down on the table, "he's always thinking of something
smutty! But, you joker, we're of an inventive turn of mind! There're
two windows in the room, aren't there? Well, we'll knock one out and
turn it into a door. Then, you understand you come in by way of the
courtyard, and we can even stop up the other door, if we like. Thus
you'll be in your home, and we in ours."

A pause ensued. At length the hatter murmured:

"Ah, yes, in that manner perhaps we might. And yet no, I should be too
much in your way."

He avoided looking at Gervaise. But he was evidently waiting for a
word from her before accepting. She was very much annoyed at her
husband's idea; not that the thought of seeing Lantier living with
them wounded her feelings, or made her particularly uneasy, but she
was wondering where she would be able to keep the dirty clothes.
Coupeau was going on about the advantages of the arrangement. Their
rent, five hundred francs, had always been a bit steep. Their friend
could pay twenty francs a month for a nicely furnished room and it
would help them with the rent. He would be responsible for fixing up a
big box under their bed that would be large enough to hold all the
dirty clothes. Gervaise still hesitated. She looked toward mother
Coupeau for guidance. Lantier had won over mother Coupeau months ago
by bringing her gum drops for her cough.

"You would certainly not be in our way," Gervaise ended by saying. "We
could so arrange things--"

"No, no, thanks," repeated the hatter. "You're too kind; it would be
asking too much."

Coupeau could no longer restrain himself. Was he going to continue
making objections when they told him it was freely offered? He would
be obliging them. There, did he understand? Then in an excited tone of
voice he yelled:

"Etienne! Etienne!"

The youngster had fallen asleep on the table. He raised his head with
a start.

"Listen, tell him that you wish it. Yes, that gentleman there. Tell
him as loud as you can: 'I wish it!'"

"I wish it!" stuttered Etienne, his voice thick with sleep.

Everyone laughed. But Lantier resumed his grave and impressive air. He
squeezed Coupeau's hand across the table as he said:

"I accept. It's in all good fellowship on both sides, is it not? Yes,
I accept for the child's sake."

The next day when the landlord, Monsieur Marescot, came to spend an
hour with the Boches, Gervaise mentioned the matter to him. He refused
angrily at first. Then, after a careful inspection of the premises,
particularly gazing upward to verify that the upper floors would not
be weakened, he finally granted permission on condition there would be
no expense to him. He had the Coupeaus sign a paper saying they would
restore everything to its original state on the expiration of the
lease.

Coupeau brought in some friends of his that very evening--a mason, a
carpenter and a painter. They would do this job in the evenings as a
favor to him. Still, installing the door and cleaning up the room cost
over one hundred francs, not counting the wine that kept the work
going. Coupeau told his friends he'd pay them something later, out of
the rent from his tenant.

Then the furniture for the room had to be sorted out. Gervaise left
mother Coupeau's wardrobe where it was, and added a table and two
chairs taken from her own room. She had to buy a washing-stand and a
bed with mattress and bedclothes, costing one hundred and thirty
francs, which she was to pay off at ten francs a month. Although
Lantier's twenty francs would be used to pay off these debts for ten
months, there would be a nice little profit later.

It was during the early days of June that the hatter moved in. The day
before, Coupeau had offered to go with him and fetch his box, to save
him the thirty sous for a cab. But the other became quite embarrassed,
saying that the box was too heavy, as though he wished up to the last
moment to hide the place where he lodged. He arrived in the afternoon
towards three o'clock. Coupeau did not happen to be in. And Gervaise,
standing at the shop door became quite pale on recognizing the box
outside the cab. It was their old box, the one with which they had
journeyed from Plassans, all scratched and broken now and held
together by cords. She saw it return as she had often dreamt it would
and it needed no great stretch of imagination to believe that the same
cab, that cab in which that strumpet of a burnisher had played her
such a foul trick, had brought the box back again. Meanwhile Boche was
giving Lantier a helping hand. The laundress followed them in silence
and feeling rather dazed. When they had deposited their burden in the
middle of the room she said for the sake of saying something:

"Well! That's a good thing finished, isn't it?"

Then pulling herself together, seeing that Lantier, busy in undoing
the cords was not even looking at her, she added:

"Monsieur Boche, you must have a drink."

And she went and fetched a quart of wine and some glasses.

Just then Poisson passed along the pavement in uniform. She signaled
to him, winking her eye and smiling. The policeman understood
perfectly. When he was on duty and anyone winked their eye to him it
meant a glass of wine. He would even walk for hours up and down before
the laundry waiting for a wink. Then so as not to be seen, he would
pass through the courtyard and toss off the liquor in secret.

"Ah! ah!" said Lantier when he saw him enter, "it's you, Badingue."

He called him Badingue for a joke, just to show how little he cared
for the Emperor. Poisson put up with it in his stiff way without one
knowing whether it really annoyed him or not. Besides the two men,
though separated by their political convictions, had become very good
friends.

"You know that the Emperor was once a policeman in London," said Boche
in his turn. "Yes, on my word! He used to take the drunken women to
the station-house."

Gervaise had filled three glasses on the table. She would not drink
herself, she felt too sick at heart, but she stood there longing to
see what the box contained and watching Lantier remove the last cords.
Before raising the lid Lantier took his glass and clinked it with the
others.

"Good health."

"Same to you," replied Boche and Poisson.

The laundress filled the glasses again. The three men wiped their lips
on the backs of their hands. And at last the hatter opened the box. It
was full of a jumble of newspapers, books, old clothes and underlinen,
in bundles. He took out successively a saucepan, a pair of boots, a
bust of Ledru-Rollin with the nose broken, an embroidered shirt and a
pair of working trousers. Gervaise could smell the odor of tobacco and
that of a man whose linen wasn't too clean, one who took care only of
the outside, of what people could see.

The old hat was no longer in the left corner. There was a pincushion
she did not recognize, doubtless a present from some woman. She became
calmer, but felt a vague sadness as she continued to watch the objects
that appeared, wondering if they were from her time or from the time
of others.

"I say, Badingue, do you know this?" resumed Lantier.

He thrust under his nose a little book printed at Brussels. "The
Amours of Napoleon III." Illustrated with engravings. It related,
among other anecdotes, how the Emperor had seduced a girl of thirteen,
the daughter of a cook; and the picture represented Napoleon III.,
bare-legged, and also wearing the grand ribbon of the Legion of Honor,
pursuing a little girl who was trying to escape his lust.

"Ah! that's it exactly!" exclaimed Boche, whose slyly ridiculous
instincts felt flattered by the sight. "It always happens like that!"

Poisson was seized with consternation, and he could not find a word to
say in the Emperor's defense. It was in a book, so he could not deny
it. Then, Lantier, continuing to push the picture under his nose in a
jeering way, he extended his arms and exclaimed:

"Well, so what?"

Lantier didn't reply, He busied himself arranging his books and
newspapers on a shelf in the wardrobe. He seemed upset not to have a
small bookshelf over his table, so Gervaise promised to get him one.
He had "The History of Ten Years" by Louis Blanc (except for the first
volume), Lamartine's "The Girondins" in installments, "The Mysteries
of Paris" and "The Wandering Jew" by Eugene Sue, and a quantity of
booklets on philosophic and humanitarian subjects picked up from used
book dealers.

His newspapers were his prized possessions, a collection made over a
number of years. Whenever he read an article in a cafe that seemed to
him to agree with his own ideas, he would buy that newspaper and keep
it. He had an enormous bundle of them, papers of every date and every
title, piled up in no discernable order. He patted them and said to
the other two:

"You see that? No one else can boast of having anything to match it.
You can't imagine all that's in there. I mean, if they put into
practice only half the ideas, it would clean up the social order
overnight. That would be good medicine for your Emperor and all his
stool pigeons."

The policeman's red mustache and beard began to bristle on his pale
face and he interrupted:

"And the army, tell me, what are you going to do about that?"

Lantier flew into a passion. He banged his fists down on the
newspapers as he yelled:

"I require the suppression of militarism, the fraternity of peoples. I
require the abolition of privileges, of titles, and of monopolies. I
require the equality of salaries, the division of benefits, the
glorification of the protectorate. All liberties, do you hear? All of
them! And divorce!"

"Yes, yes, divorce for morality!" insisted Boche.

Poisson had assumed a majestic air.

"Yet if I won't have your liberties, I'm free to refuse them," he
answered.

Lantier was choking with passion.

"If you don't want them--if you don't want them--" he replied. "No,
you're not free at all! If you don't want them, I'll send you off to
Devil's Island. Yes, Devil's Island with your Emperor and all the rats
of his crew."

They always quarreled thus every time they met. Gervaise, who did not
like arguments, usually interfered. She roused herself from the torpor
into which the sight of the box, full of the stale perfume of her past
love, had plunged her, and she drew the three men's attention to the
glasses.

"Ah! yes," said Lantier, becoming suddenly calm and taking his glass.
"Good health!"

"Good health!" replied Boche and Poisson, clinking glasses with him.

Boche, however, was moving nervously about, troubled by an anxiety as
he looked at the policeman out of the corner of his eye.

"All this between ourselves, eh, Monsieur Poisson?" murmured he at
length. "We say and show you things to show off."

But Poisson did not let him finish. He placed his hand upon his heart,
as though to explain that all remained buried there. He certainly did
not go spying about on his friends. Coupeau arriving, they emptied a
second quart. Then the policeman went off by way of the courtyard and
resumed his stiff and measured tread along the pavement.

At the beginning of the new arrangement, the entire routine of the
establishment was considerably upset. Lantier had his own separate
room, with his own entrance and his own key. However, since they had
decided not to close off the door between the rooms, he usually came
and went through the shop. Besides, the dirty clothes were an
inconvenience to Gervaise because her husband never made the case he
had promised and she had to tuck the dirty laundry into any odd corner
she could find. They usually ended up under the bed and this was not
very pleasant on warm summer nights. She also found it a nuisance
having to make up Etienne's bed every evening in the shop. When her
employees worked late, the lad had to sleep in a chair until they
finished.

Goujet had mentioned sending Etienne to Lille where a machinist he
knew was looking for apprentices. As the boy was unhappy at home and
eager to be out on his own, Gervaise seriously considered the
proposal. Her only fear was that Lantier would refuse. Since he had
come to live with them solely to be near his son, surely he wouldn't
want to lose him only two weeks after he moved in. However he approved
whole-heartedly when she timidly broached the matter to him. He said
that young men needed to see a bit of the country. The morning that
Etienne left Lantier made a speech to him, kissed him and ended by
saying:

"Never forget that a workingman is not a slave, and that whoever is
not a workingman is a lazy drone."

The household was now able to get into the new routine. Gervaise
became accustomed to having dirty laundry lying all around. Lantier
was forever talking of important business deals. Sometimes he went
out, wearing fresh linen and neatly combed. He would stay out all
night and on his return pretend that he was completely exhausted
because he had been discussing very serious matters. Actually he was
merely taking life easy. He usually slept until ten. In the afternoons
he would take a walk if the weather was nice. If it was raining, he
would sit in the shop reading his newspaper. This atmosphere suited
him. He always felt at his ease with women and enjoyed listening to
them.

Lantier first took his meals at Francois's, at the corner of the Rue
des Poissonniers. But of the seven days in the week he dined with the
Coupeaus on three or four; so much so that he ended by offering to
board with them and to pay them fifteen francs every Saturday. From
that time he scarcely ever left the house, but made himself completely
at home there. Morning to night he was in the shop, even giving orders
and attending to customers.

Lantier didn't like the wine from Francois's, so he persuaded Gervaise
to buy her wine from Vigouroux, the coal-dealer. Then he decided that
Coudeloup's bread was not baked to his satisfaction, so he sent
Augustine to the Viennese bakery on the Faubourg Poissonniers for
their bread. He changed from the grocer Lehongre but kept the butcher,
fat Charles, because of his political opinions. After a month he
wanted all the cooking done with olive oil. Clemence joked that with a
Provencal like him you could never wash out the oil stains. He wanted
his omelets fried on both sides, as hard as pancakes. He supervised
mother Coupeau's cooking, wanting his steaks cooked like shoe leather
and with garlic on everything. He got angry if she put herbs in the
salad.

"They're just weeds and some of them might be poisonous," he declared.
His favorite soup was made with over-boiled vermicelli. He would pour
in half a bottle of olive oil. Only he and Gervaise could eat this
soup, the others being too used to Parisian cooking.

Little by little Lantier also came to mixing himself up in the affairs
of the family. As the Lorilleuxs always grumbled at having to part
with the five francs for mother Coupeau, he explained that an action
could be brought against them. They must think that they had a set of
fools to deal with! It was ten francs a month which they ought to
give! And he would go up himself for the ten francs so boldly and yet
so amiably that the chainmaker never dared refuse them. Madame Lerat
also gave two five-franc pieces now. Mother Coupeau could have kissed
Lantier's hands. He was, moreover, the grand arbiter in all the
quarrels between the old woman and Gervaise. Whenever the laundress,
in a moment of impatience, behaved roughly to her mother-in-law and
the latter went and cried on her bed, he hustled them about and made
them kiss each other, asking them if they thought themselves amusing
with their bad tempers.

And Nana, too; she was being brought up badly, according to his idea.
In that he was right, for whenever the father spanked the child, the
mother took her part, and if the mother, in her turn, boxed her ears,
the father made a disturbance. Nana delighted at seeing her parents
abuse each other, and knowing that she was forgiven beforehand, was up
to all kinds of tricks. Her latest mania was to go and play in the
blacksmith shop opposite; she would pass the entire day swinging on
the shafts of the carts; she would hide with bands of urchins in the
remotest corners of the gray courtyard, lighted up with the red glare
of the forge; and suddenly she would reappear, running and shouting,
unkempt and dirty and followed by the troop of urchins, as though a
sudden clash of the hammers had frightened the ragamuffins away.
Lantier alone could scold her; and yet she knew perfectly well how to
get over him. This tricky little girl of ten would walk before him
like a lady, swinging herself about and casting side glances at him,
her eyes already full of vice. He had ended by undertaking her
education: he taught her to dance and to talk patois.

A year passed thus. In the neighborhood it was thought that Lantier
had a private income, for this was the only way to account for the
Coupeaus' grand style of living. No doubt Gervaise continued to earn
money; but now that she had to support two men in doing nothing, the
shop certainly could not suffice; more especially as the shop no
longer had so good a reputation, customers were leaving and the
workwomen were tippling from morning till night. The truth was that
Lantier paid nothing, neither for rent nor board. During the first
months he had paid sums on account, then he had contented himself with
speaking of a large amount he was going to receive, with which later
on he would pay off everything in a lump sum. Gervaise no longer dared
ask him for a centime. She had the bread, the wine, the meat, all on
credit. The bills increased everywhere at the rate of three and four
francs a day. She had not paid a sou to the furniture dealer nor to
the three comrades, the mason, the carpenter and the painter. All
these people commenced to grumble, and she was no longer greeted with
the same politeness at the shops.

She was as though intoxicated by a mania for getting into debt; she
tried to drown her thoughts, ordered the most expensive things, and
gave full freedom to her gluttony now that she no longer paid for
anything; she remained withal very honest at heart, dreaming of
earning from morning to night hundreds of francs, though she did not
exactly know how, to enable her to distribute handfuls of five-franc
pieces to her tradespeople. In short, she was sinking, and as she sank
lower and lower she talked of extending her business. Instead she went
deeper into debt. Clemence left around the middle of the summer
because there was no longer enough work for two women and she had not
been paid in several weeks.

During this impending ruin, Coupeau and Lantier were, in effect,
devouring the shop and growing fat on the ruin of the establishment.
At table they would challenge each other to take more helpings and
slap their rounded stomachs to make more room for dessert.

The great subject of conversation in the neighborhood was as to
whether Lantier had really gone back to his old footing with Gervaise.
On this point opinions were divided. According to the Lorilleuxs,
Clump-Clump was doing everything she could to hook Lantier again, but
he would no longer have anything to do with her because she was
getting old and faded and he had plenty of younger girls that were
prettier. On the other hand, according to the Boches, Gervaise had
gone back to her former mate the very first night, just as soon as
poor Coupeau had gone to sleep. The picture was not pretty, but there
were a lot of worse things in life, so folks ended by accepting the
threesome as altogether natural. In fact, they thought them rather
nice since there were never any fights and the outward decencies
remained. Certainly if you stuck your nose into some of the other
neighborhood households you could smell far worse things. So what if
they slept together like a nice little family. It never kept the
neighbors awake. Besides, everyone was still very much impressed by
Lantier's good manners. His charm helped greatly to keep tongues from
wagging. Indeed, when the fruit dealer insisted to the tripe seller
that there had been no intimacies, the latter appeared to feel that
this was really too bad, because it made the Coupeaus less
interesting.

Gervaise was quite at her ease in this matter, and not much troubled
with these thoughts. Things reached the point that she was accused of
being heartless. The family did not understand why she continued to
bear a grudge against the hatter. Madame Lerat now came over every
evening. She considered Lantier as utterly irresistible and said that
most ladies would be happy to fall into his arms. Madame Boche
declared that her own virtue would not be safe if she were ten years
younger. There was a sort of silent conspiracy to push Gervaise into
the arms of Lantier, as if all the women around her felt driven to
satisfy their own longings by giving her a lover. Gervaise didn't
understand this because she no longer found Lantier seductive.
Certainly he had changed for the better. He had gotten a sort of
education in the cafes and political meetings but she knew him well.
She could pierce to the depths of his soul and she found things there
that still gave her the shivers. Well, if the others found him so
attractive, why didn't they try it themselves. In the end she
suggested this one day to Virginie who seemed the most eager. Then, to
excite Gervaise, Madame Lerat and Virginie told her of the love of
Lantier and tall Clemence. Yes, she had not noticed anything herself;
but as soon as she went out on an errand, the hatter would bring the
workgirl into his room. Now people met them out together; he probably
went to see her at her own place.

"Well," said the laundress, her voice trembling slightly, "what can it
matter to me?"

She looked straight into Virginie's eyes. Did this woman still have it
in for her?

Virginie replied with an air of innocence:

"It can't matter to you, of course. Only, you ought to advise him to
break off with that girl, who is sure to cause him some
unpleasantness."

The worst of it was that Lantier, feeling himself supported by public
opinion, changed altogether in his behavior towards Gervaise. Now,
whenever he shook hands with her, he held her fingers for a minute
between his own. He tried her with his glance, fixing a bold look upon
her, in which she clearly read that he wanted her. If he passed behind
her, he dug his knees into her skirt, or breathed upon her neck. Yet
he waited a while before being rough and openly declaring himself. But
one evening, finding himself alone with her, he pushed her before him
without a word, and viewed her all trembling against the wall at the
back of the shop, and tried to kiss her. It so chanced that Goujet
entered just at that moment. Then she struggled and escaped. And all
three exchanged a few words, as though nothing had happened. Goujet,
his face deadly pale, looked on the ground, fancying that he had
disturbed them, and that she had merely struggled so as not to be
kissed before a third party.

The next day Gervaise moved restlessly about the shop. She was
miserable and unable to iron even a single handkerchief. She only
wanted to see Goujet and explain to him how Lantier happened to have
pinned her against the wall. But since Etienne had gone to Lille, she
had hesitated to visit Goujet's forge where she felt she would be
greeted by his fellow workers with secret laughter. This afternoon,
however, she yielded to the impulse. She took an empty basket and went
out under the pretext of going for the petticoats of her customer on
Rue des Portes-Blanches. Then, when she reached Rue Marcadet, she
walked very slowly in front of the bolt factory, hoping for a lucky
meeting. Goujet must have been hoping to see her, too, for within five
minutes he came out as if by chance.

"You have been on an errand," he said, smiling. "And now you are on
your way home."

Actually Gervaise had her back toward Rue des Poissonniers. He only
said that for something to say. They walked together up toward
Montmartre, but without her taking his arm. They wanted to get a bit
away from the factory so as not to seem to be having a rendezvous in
front of it. They turned into a vacant lot between a sawmill and a
button factory. It was like a small green meadow. There was even a
goat tied to a stake.

"It's strange," remarked Gervaise. "You'd think you were in the
country."

The went to sit under a dead tree. Gervaise placed the laundry basket
by her feet.

"Yes," Gervaise said, "I had an errand to do, and so I came out."

She felt deeply ashamed and was afraid to try to explain. Yet she
realized that they had come here to discuss it. It remained a
troublesome burden.

Then, all in a rush, with tears in her eyes, she told him of the death
that morning of Madame Bijard, her washerwoman. She had suffered
horrible agonies.

"Her husband caused it by kicking her in the stomach," she said in a
monotone. "He must have damaged her insides. /Mon Dieu!/ She was in
agony for three days with her stomach all swelled up. Plenty of
scoundrels have been sent to the galleys for less than that, but the
courts won't concern themselves with a wife-beater. Especially since
the woman said she had hurt herself falling. She wanted to save him
from the scaffold, but she screamed all night long before she died."

Goujet clenched his hands and remained silent.

"She weaned her youngest only two weeks ago, little Jules," Gervaise
went on. "That's lucky for the baby, he won't have to suffer. Still,
there's the child Lalie and she has two babies to look after. She
isn't eight yet, but she's already sensible. Her father will beat her
now even more than before."

Goujet gazed at her silently. Then, his lips trembling:

"You hurt me yesterday, yes, you hurt me badly."

Gervaise turned pale and clasped her hands as he continued.

"I thought it would happen. You should have told me, you should have
trusted me enough to confess what was happening, so as not to leave me
thinking that--"

Goujet could not finish the sentence. Gervaise stood up, realizing
that he thought she had gone back with Lantier as the neighbors
asserted. Stretching her arms toward him, she cried:

"No, no, I swear to you. He was pushing against me, trying to kiss me,
but his face never even touched mine. It's true, and that was the
first time he tried. Oh, I swear on my life, on the life of my
children, oh, believe me!"

Goujet was shaking his head. Gervaise said slowly:

"Monsieur Goujet, you know me well. You know that I do not lie. On my
word of honor, it never happened, and it never will, do you
understand? Never! I'd be the lowest of the low if it ever happened,
and I wouldn't deserve the friendship of an honest man like you."

She seemed so sincere that he took her hand and made her sit down
again. He could breathe freely; his heart rejoiced. This was the first
time he had ever held her hand like this. He pressed it in his own and
they both sat quietly for a time.

"I know your mother doesn't like me," Gervaise said in a low voice.
"Don't bother to deny it. We owe you so much money."

He squeezed her hand tightly. He didn't want to talk of money. Finally
he said:

"I've been thinking of something for a long time. You are not happy
where you are. My mother tells me things are getting worse for you.
Well, then, we can go away together."

She didn't understand at first and stared at him, startled by this
sudden declaration of a love that he had never mentioned.

Finally she asked:

"What do you mean?"

"We'll get away from here," he said, looking down at the ground.
"We'll go live somewhere else, in Belgium, if you wish. With both of
us working, we would soon be very comfortable."

Gervaise flushed. She thought she would have felt less shame if he had
taken her in his arms and kissed her. Goujet was an odd fellow,
proposing to elope, just the way it happens in novels. Well, she had
seen plenty of workingmen making up to married women, but they never
took them even as far as Saint-Denis.

"Ah, Monsieur Goujet," she murmured, not knowing what else to say.

"Don't you see?" he said. "There would only be the two of us. It
annoys me having others around."

Having regained her self-possession, however, she refused his
proposal.

"It's impossible, Monsieur Goujet. It would be very wrong. I'm a
married woman and I have children. We'd soon regret it. I know you
care for me, and I care for you also, too much to let you do anything
foolish. It's much better to stay just as we are. We have respect for
each other and that's a lot. It's been a comfort to me many times.
When people in our situation stay on the straight, it is better in the
end."

He nodded his head as he listened. He agreed with her and was unable
to offer any arguments. Suddenly he pulled her into his arms and
kissed her, crushing her. Then he let her go and said nothing more
about their love. She wasn't angry. She felt they had earned that
small moment of pleasure.

Goujet now didn't know what to do with his hands, so he went around
picking dandelions and tossing them into her basket. This amused him
and gradually soothed him. Gervaise was becoming relaxed and cheerful.
When they finally left the vacant lot they walked side by side and
talked of how much Etienne liked being at Lille. Her basket was full
of yellow dandelions.

Gervaise, at heart, did not feel as courageous when with Lantier as
she said. She was, indeed, perfectly resolved not to hear his
flattery, even with the slightest interest; but she was afraid, if
ever he should touch her, of her old cowardice, of that feebleness and
gloominess into which she allowed herself to glide, just to please
people. Lantier, however, did not avow his affection. He several times
found himself alone with her and kept quiet. He seemed to think of
marrying the tripe-seller, a woman of forty-five and very well
preserved. Gervaise would talk of the tripe-seller in Goujet's
presence, so as to set his mind at ease. She would say to Virginie and
Madame Lerat, whenever they were ringing the hatter's praises, that he
could very well do without her admiration, because all the women of
the neighborhood were smitten with him.

Coupeau went braying about everywhere that Lantier was a friend and a
true one. People might jabber about them; he knew what he knew and did
not care a straw for their gossip, for he had respectability on his
side. When they all three went out walking on Sundays, he made his
wife and the hatter walk arm-in-arm before him, just by way of
swaggering in the street; and he watched the people, quite prepared to
administer a drubbing if anyone had ventured on the least joke. It was
true that he regarded Lantier as a bit of a high flyer. He accused him
of avoiding hard liquor and teased him because he could read and spoke
like an educated man. Still, he accepted him as a regular comrade.
They were ideally suited to each other and friendship between men is
more substantial than love for a woman.

Coupeau and Lantier were forever going out junketing together. Lantier
would now borrow money from Gervaise--ten francs, twenty francs at a
time, whenever he smelt there was money in the house. Then on those
days he would keep Coupeau away from his work, talk of some distant
errand and take him with him. Then seated opposite to each other in
the corner of some neighboring eating house, they would guzzle fancy
dishes which one cannot get at home and wash them down with bottles of
expensive wine. The zinc-worker would have preferred to booze in a
less pretentious place, but he was impressed by the aristocratic
tastes of Lantier, who would discover on the bill of fare dishes with
the most extraordinary names.

It was hard to understand a man so hard to please. Maybe it was from
being a southerner. Lantier didn't like anything too rich and argued
about every dish, sending back meat that was too salty or too peppery.
He hated drafts. If a door was left open, he complained loudly. At the
same time, he was very stingy, only giving the waiter a tip of two
sous for a meal of seven or eight francs. He was treated with respect
in spite of that.

The pair were well known along the exterior boulevards, from
Batignolles to Belleville. They would go to the Grand Rue des
Batignolles to eat tripe cooked in the Caen style. At the foot of
Montmartre they obtained the best oysters in the neighborhood at the
"Town of Bar-le-Duc." When they ventured to the top of the height as
far as the "Galette Windmill" they had a stewed rabbit. The "Lilacs,"
in the Rue des Martyrs, had a reputation for their calf's head, whilst
the restaurant of the "Golden Lion" and the "Two Chestnut Trees," in
the Chaussee Clignancourt, served them stewed kidneys which made them
lick their lips. Usually they went toward Belleville where they had
tables reserved for them at some places of such excellent repute that
you could order anything with your eyes closed. These eating sprees
were always surreptitious and the next day they would refer to them
indirectly while playing with the potatoes served by Gervaise. Once
Lantier brought a woman with him to the "Galette Windmill" and Coupeau
left immediately after dessert.

One naturally cannot both guzzle and work; so that ever since the
hatter was made one of the family, the zinc-worker, who was already
pretty lazy, had got to the point of never touching a tool. When tired
of doing nothing, he sometimes let himself be prevailed upon to take a
job. Then his comrade would look him up and chaff him unmercifully
when he found him hanging to his knotty cord like a smoked ham, and he
would call to him to come down and have a glass of wine. And that
settled it. The zinc-worker would send the job to blazes and commence
a booze which lasted days and weeks. Oh, it was a famous booze--a
general review of all the dram shops of the neighborhood, the
intoxication of the morning slept off by midday and renewed in the
evening; the goes of "vitriol" succeeded one another, becoming lost in
the depths of the night, like the Venetian lanterns of an
illumination, until the last candle disappeared with the last glass!
That rogue of a hatter never kept on to the end. He let the other get
elevated, then gave him the slip and returned home smiling in his
pleasant way. He could drink a great deal without people noticing it.
When one got to know him well one could only tell it by his half-
closed eyes and his overbold behavior to women. The zinc-worker, on
the contrary, became quite disgusting, and could no longer drink
without putting himself into a beastly state.

Thus, towards the beginning of November, Coupeau went in for a booze
which ended in a most dirty manner, both for himself and the others.
The day before he had been offered a job. This time Lantier was full
of fine sentiments; he lauded work, because work ennobles a man. In
the morning he even rose before it was light, for he gravely wished to
accompany his friend to the workshop, honoring in him the workman
really worthy of the name. But when they arrived before the "Little
Civet," which was just opening, they entered to have a plum in brandy,
only one, merely to drink together to the firm observance of a good
resolution. On a bench opposite the counter, and with his back against
the wall, Bibi-the-Smoker was sitting smoking with a sulky look on his
face.

"Hallo! Here's Bibi having a snooze," said Coupeau. "Are you down in
the dumps, old bloke?"

"No, no," replied the comrade, stretching his arm. "It's the employers
who disgust me. I sent mine to the right about yesterday. They're all
toads and scoundrels."

Bibi-the-Smoker accepted a plum. He was, no doubt, waiting there on
that bench for someone to stand him a drink. Lantier, however, took
the part of the employers; they often had some very hard times, as he
who had been in business himself well knew. The workers were a bad
lot, forever getting drunk! They didn't take their work seriously.
Sometimes they quit in the middle of a job and only returned when they
needed something in their pockets. Then Lantier would switch his
attack to the employers. They were nasty exploiters, regular
cannibals. But he could sleep with a clear conscience as he had always
acted as a friend to his employees. He didn't want to get rich the way
others did.

"Let's be off, my boy," he said, speaking to Coupeau. "We must be
going or we shall be late."

Bibi-the-Smoker followed them, swinging his arms. Outside the sun was
scarcely rising, the pale daylight seemed dirtied by the muddy
reflection of the pavement; it had rained the night before and it was
very mild. The gas lamps had just been turned out; the Rue des
Poissonniers, in which shreds of night rent by the houses still
floated, was gradually filling with the dull tramp of the workmen
descending towards Paris. Coupeau, with his zinc-worker's bag slung
over his shoulder, walked along in the imposing manner of a fellow who
feels in good form for a change. He turned round and asked:

"Bibi, do you want a job. The boss told me to bring a pal if I could."

"No thanks," answered Bibi-the-Smoker; "I'm purging myself. You should
ask My-Boots. He was looking for something yesterday. Wait a minute.
My-Boots is most likely in there."

And as they reached the bottom of the street they indeed caught sight
of My-Boots inside Pere Colombe's. In spite of the early hour
l'Assommoir was flaring, the shutters down, the gas lighted. Lantier
stood at the door, telling Coupeau to make haste, because they had
only ten minutes left.

"What! You're going to work for that rascal Bourguignon?" yelled My-
Boots, when the zinc-worker had spoken to him. "You'll never catch me
in his hutch again! No, I'd rather go till next year with my tongue
hanging out of my mouth. But, old fellow, you won't stay three days,
and it's I who tell you so."

"Really now, is it such a dirty hole?" asked Coupeau anxiously.

"Oh, it's about the dirtiest. You can't move there. The ape's for ever
on your back. And such queer ways too--a missus who always says you're
drunk, a shop where you mustn't spit. I sent them to the right about
the first night, you know."

"Good; now I'm warned. I shan't stop there for ever. I'll just go this
morning to see what it's like; but if the boss bothers me, I'll catch
him up and plant him upon his missus, you know, bang together like two
fillets of sole!"

Then Coupeau thanked his friend for the useful information and shook
his hand. As he was about to leave, My-Boots cursed angrily. Was that
lousy Bourguignon going to stop them from having a drink? Weren't they
free any more? He could well wait another five minutes. Lantier came
in to share in the round and they stood together at the counter. My-
Boots, with his smock black with dirt and his cap flattened on his
head had recently been proclaimed king of pigs and drunks after he had
eaten a salad of live beetles and chewed a piece of a dead cat.

"Say there, old Borgia," he called to Pere Colombe, "give us some of
your yellow stuff, first class mule's wine."

And when Pere Colombe, pale and quiet in his blue-knitted waistcoat,
had filled the four glasses, these gentlemen tossed them off, so as
not to let the liquor get flat.

"That does some good when it goes down," murmured Bibi-the-Smoker.

The comic My-Boots had a story to tell. He was so drunk on the Friday
that his comrades had stuck his pipe in his mouth with a handful of
plaster. Anyone else would have died of it; he merely strutted about
and puffed out his chest.

"Do you gentlemen require anything more?" asked Pere Colombe in his
oily voice.

"Yes, fill us up again," said Lantier. "It's my turn."

Now they were talking of women. Bibi-the-Smoker had taken his girl to
an aunt's at Montrouge on the previous Sunday. Coupeau asked for the
news of the "Indian Mail," a washerwoman of Chaillot who was known in
the establishment. They were about to drink, when My-Boots loudly
called to Goujet and Lorilleux who were passing by. They came just to
the door, but would not enter. The blacksmith did not care to take
anything. The chainmaker, pale and shivering, held in his pocket the
gold chains he was going to deliver; and he coughed and asked them to
excuse him, saying that the least drop of brandy would nearly make him
split his sides.

"There are hypocrites for you!" grunted My-Boots. "I bet they have
their drinks on the sly."

And when he had poked his nose in his glass he attacked Pere Colombe.

"Vile druggist, you've changed the bottle! You know it's no good your
trying to palm your cheap stuff off on me."

The day had advanced; a doubtful sort of light lit up l'Assommoir,
where the landlord was turning out the gas. Coupeau found excuses for
his brother-in-law who could not stand drink, which after all was no
crime. He even approved Goujet's behavior for it was a real blessing
never to be thirsty. And as he talked of going off to his work
Lantier, with his grand air of a gentleman, sharply gave him a lesson.
One at least stood one's turn before sneaking off; one should not
leave one's friends like a mean blackguard, even when going to do
one's duty.

"Is he going to badger us much longer about his work?" cried My-Boots.

"So this is your turn, sir?" asked Pere Colombe of Coupeau.

The latter paid. But when it came to Bibi-the-Smoker's turn he
whispered to the landlord who refused with a shake of the head. My-
Boots understood, and again set to abusing the old Jew Colombe. What!
A rascal like him dared to behave in that way to a comrade! Everywhere
else one could get drink on tick! It was only in such low boozing-dens
that one was insulted! The landlord remained calm, leaning his big
fists on the edge of the counter. He politely said:

"Lend the gentleman some money--that will be far simpler."

"/Mon Dieu!/ Yes, I'll lend him some," yelled My-Boots. "Here! Bibi,
throw this money in his face, the limb of Satan!"

Then, excited and annoyed at seeing Coupeau with his bag slung over
his shoulder, he continued speaking to the zinc-worker:

"You look like a wet-nurse. Drop your brat. It'll give you a hump-
back."

Coupeau hesitated an instant; and then, quietly, as though he had only
made up his mind after considerable reflection, he laid his bag on the
ground saying:

"It's too late now. I'll go to Bourguignon's after lunch. I'll tell
him that the missus was ill. Listen, Pere Colombe, I'll leave my tools
under this seat and I'll call for them at twelve o'clock."

Lantier gave his blessing to this arrangement with an approving nod.
Labor was necessary, yes, but when you're with good friends, courtesy
comes first. Now the four had five hours of idleness before them. They
were full of noisy merriment. Coupeau was especially relieved. They
had another round and then went to a small bar that had a billiard
table.

At first Lantier turned up his nose at this establishment because it
was rather shabby. So much liquor had been spilled on the billiard
table that the balls stuck to it. Once the game got started though,
Lantier recovered his good humor and began to flaunt his extraordinary
knack with a cue.

When lunch time came Coupeau had an idea. He stamped his feet and
cried:

"We must go and fetch Salted-Mouth. I know where he's working. We'll
take him to Mere Louis' to have some pettitoes."

The idea was greeted with acclamation. Yes, Salted-Mouth, otherwise
Drink-without-Thirst, was no doubt in want of some pettitoes. They
started off. Coupeau took them to the bolt factory in the Rue
Marcadet. As they arrived a good half hour before the time the workmen
came out, the zinc-worker gave a youngster two sous to go in and tell
Salted-Mouth that his wife was ill and wanted him at once. The
blacksmith made his appearance, waddling in his walk, looking very
calm, and scenting a tuck-out.

"Ah! you jokers!" said he, as soon as he caught sight of them hiding
in a doorway. "I guessed it. Well, what are we going to eat?"

At mother Louis', whilst they sucked the little bones of the
pettitoes, they again fell to abusing the employers. Salted-Mouth,
otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, related that they had a most pressing
order to execute at the shop. Oh! the ape was pleasant for the time
being. One could be late, and he would say nothing; he no doubt
considered himself lucky when one turned up at all. At any rate, no
boss would dare to throw Salted-Mouth out the door, because you
couldn't find lads of his capacity any more. After the pettitoes they
had an omelet. When each of them had emptied his bottle, Mere Louis
brought out some Auvergne wine, thick enough to cut with a knife. The
party was really warming up.

"What do you think is the ape's latest idea?" cried Salted-Mouth at
dessert. "Why, he's been and put a bell up in his shed! A bell! That's
good for slaves. Ah, well! It can ring to-day! They won't catch me
again at the anvil! For five days past I've been sticking there; I may
give myself a rest now. If he deducts anything, I'll send him to
blazes."

"I," said Coupeau, with an air of importance, "I'm obliged to leave
you; I'm off to work. Yes, I promised my wife. Amuse yourselves; my
spirit you know remains with my pals."

The others chuffed him. But he seemed so decided that they all
accompanied him when he talked of going to fetch his tools from Pere
Colombe's. He took his bag from under the seat and laid it on the
ground before him whilst they had a final drink. But at one o'clock
the party was still standing drinks. Then Coupeau, with a bored
gesture placed the tools back again under the seat. They were in his
way; he could not get near the counter without stumbling against them.
It was too absurd; he would go to Bourguignon's on the morrow. The
other four, who were quarrelling about the question of salaries, were
not at all surprised when the zinc-worker, without any explanation,
proposed a little stroll on the Boulevard, just to stretch their legs.
They didn't go very far. They seemed to have nothing to say to each
other out in the fresh air. Without even consulting each other with so
much as a nudge, they slowly and instinctively ascended the Rue des
Poissonniers, where they went to Francois's and had a glass of wine
out of the bottle. Lantier pushed his comrades inside the private room
at the back; it was a narrow place with only one table in it, and was
separated from the shop by a dull glazed partition. He liked to do his
drinking in private rooms because it seemed more respectable. Didn't
they like it here? It was as comfortable as being at home. You could
even take a nap here without being embarrassed. He called for the
newspaper, spread it out open before him, and looked through it,
frowning the while. Coupeau and My-Boots had commenced a game of
piquet. Two bottles of wine and five glasses were scattered about the
table.

They emptied their glasses. Then Lantier read out loud:

"A frightful crime has just spread consternation throughout the
Commune of Gaillon, Department of Seine-et-Marne. A son has killed his
father with blows from a spade in order to rob him of thirty sous."

They all uttered a cry of horror. There was a fellow whom they would
have taken great pleasure in seeing guillotined! No, the guillotine
was not enough; he deserved to be cut into little pieces. The story of
an infanticide equally aroused their indignation; but the hatter,
highly moral, found excuses for the woman, putting all the wrong on
the back of her husband; for after all, if some beast of a man had not
put the wretched woman into the way of bleak poverty, she could not
have drowned it in a water closet.

They were most delighted though by the exploit of a Marquis who,
coming out of a dance hall at two in the morning, had defended himself
against an attack by three blackguards on the Boulevard des Invalides.
Without taking off his gloves, he had disposed of the first two
villains by ramming his head into their stomachs, and then had marched
the third one off to the police. What a man! Too bad he was a noble.

"Listen to this now," continued Lantier. "Here's some society news: 'A
marriage is arranged between the eldest daughter of the Countess de
Bretigny and the young Baron de Valancay, aide-de-camp to His Majesty.
The wedding trousseau will contain more than three hundred thousand
francs' worth of lace."

"What's that to us?" interrupted Bibi-the-Smoker. "We don't want to
know the color of her mantle. The girl can have no end of lace;
nevertheless she'll see the folly of loving."

As Lantier seemed about to continue his reading, Salted-Mouth,
otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, took the newspaper from him and sat
upon it, saying:

"Ah! no, that's enough! This is all the paper is good for."

Meanwhile, My-Boots, who had been looking at his hand, triumphantly
banged his fist down on the table. He scored ninety-three.

"I've got the Revolution!" he exulted.

"You're out of luck, comrade," the others told Coupeau.

They ordered two fresh bottles. The glasses were filled up again as
fast as they were emptied, the booze increased. Towards five o'clock
it began to get disgusting, so much so that Lantier kept very quiet,
thinking of how to give the others the slip; brawling and throwing the
wine about was no longer his style. Just then Coupeau stood up to make
the drunkard's sign of the cross. Touching his head he pronounced
Montpernasse, then Menilmonte as he brought his hand to his right
shoulder, Bagnolet giving himself a blow in the chest, and wound up by
saying stewed rabbit three times as he hit himself in the pit of the
stomach. Then the hatter took advantage of the clamor which greeted
the performance of this feat and quietly made for the door. His
comrades did not even notice his departure. He had already had a
pretty good dose. But once outside he shook himself and regained his
self-possession; and he quietly made for the shop, where he told
Gervaise that Coupeau was with some friends.

Two days passed by. The zinc-worker had not returned. He was reeling
about the neighborhood, but no one knew exactly where. Several
persons, however, stated that they had seen him at mother Baquet's, at
the "Butterfly," and at the "Little Old Man with a Cough." Only some
said that he was alone, whilst others affirmed that he was in the
company of seven or eight drunkards like himself. Gervaise shrugged
her shoulders in a resigned sort of way. /Mon Dieu!/ She just had to
get used to it. She never ran about after her old man; she even went
out of her way if she caught sight of him inside a wineshop, so as to
not anger him; and she waited at home till he returned, listening at
night-time to hear if he was snoring outside the door. He would sleep
on a rubbish heap, or on a seat, or in a piece of waste land, or
across a gutter. On the morrow, after having only badly slept off his
booze of the day before, he would start off again, knocking at the
doors of all the consolation dealers, plunging afresh into a furious
wandering, in the midst of nips of spirits, glasses of wine, losing
his friends and then finding them again, going regular voyages from
which he returned in a state of stupor, seeing the streets dance, the
night fall and the day break, without any other thought than to drink
and sleep off the effects wherever he happened to be. When in the
latter state, the world was ended so far as he was concerned. On the
second day, however, Gervaise went to Pere Colombe's l'Assommoir to
find out something about him; he had been there another five times,
they were unable to tell her anything more. All she could do was to
take away his tools which he had left under a seat.

In the evening Lantier, seeing that the laundress seemed very worried,
offered to take her to a music-hall, just by way of passing a pleasant
hour or two. She refused at first, she was in no mood for laughing.
Otherwise she would not have said, "no," for the hatter made the
proposal in too straightforward a manner for her to feel any mistrust.
He seemed to feel for her in quite a paternal way. Never before had
Coupeau slept out two nights running. So that in spite of herself, she
would go every ten minutes to the door, with her iron in her hand, and
look up and down the street to see if her old man was coming.

It might be that Coupeau had broken a leg, or fallen under a wagon and
been crushed and that might be good riddance to bad rubbish. She saw
no reason for cherishing in her heart any affection for a filthy
character like him, but it was irritating, all the same, to have to
wonder every night whether he would come in or not. When it got dark,
Lantier again suggested the music-hall, and this time she accepted.
She decided it would be silly to deny herself a little pleasure when
her husband had been out on the town for three days. If he wasn't
coming in, then she might as well go out herself. Let the entire dump
burn up if it felt like it. She might even put a torch to it herself.
She was getting tired of the boring monotony of her present life.

They ate their dinner quickly. Then, when she went off at eight
o'clock, arm-in-arm with the hatter, Gervaise told mother Coupeau and
Nana to go to bed at once. The shop was shut and the shutters up. She
left by the door opening into the courtyard and gave Madame Boche the
key, asking her, if her pig of a husband came home, to have the
kindness to put him to bed. The hatter was waiting for her under the
big doorway, arrayed in his best and whistling a tune. She had on her
silk dress. They walked slowly along the pavement, keeping close to
each other, lighted up by the glare from the shop windows which showed
them smiling and talking together in low voices.

The music-hall was in the Boulevard de Rochechouart. It had originally
been a little cafe and had been enlarged by means of a kind of wooden
shed erected in the courtyard. At the door a string of glass globes
formed a luminous porch. Tall posters pasted on boards stood upon the
ground, close to the gutter.

"Here we are," said Lantier. "To-night, first appearance of
Mademoiselle Amanda, serio-comic."

Then he caught sight of Bibi-the-Smoker, who was also reading the
poster. Bibi had a black eye; some punch he had run up against the day
before.

"Well! Where's Coupeau?" inquired the hatter, looking about. "Have
you, then, lost Coupeau?"

"Oh! long ago, since yesterday," replied the other. "There was a bit
of a free-for-all on leaving mother Baquet's. I don't care for
fisticuffs. We had a row, you know, with mother Baquet's pot-boy,
because he wanted to make us pay for a quart twice over. Then I left.
I went and had a bit of a snooze."

He was still yawning; he had slept eighteen hours at a stretch. He
was, moreover, quite sobered, with a stupid look on his face, and his
jacket smothered with fluff; for he had no doubt tumbled into bed with
his clothes on.

"And you don't know where my husband is, sir?" asked the laundress.

"Well, no, not a bit. It was five o'clock when we left mother
Baquet's. That's all I know about it. Perhaps he went down the street.
Yes, I fancy now that I saw him go to the 'Butterfly' with a coachman.
Oh! how stupid it is! Really, we deserve to be shot."

Lantier and Gervaise spent a very pleasant evening at the music-hall.
At eleven o'clock when the place closed, they strolled home without
hurrying themselves. The cold was quite sharp. People seemed to be in
groups. Some of the girls were giggling in the darkness as their men
pressed close to them. Lantier was humming one of Mademoiselle
Amanda's songs. Gervaise, with her head spinning from too much drink,
hummed the refrain with him. It had been very warm at the music-hall
and the two drinks she had had, along with all the smoke, had upset
her stomach a bit. She had been quite impressed with Mademoiselle
Amanda. She wouldn't dare to appear in public wearing so little, but
she had to admit that the lady had lovely skin.

"Everyone's asleep," said Gervaise, after ringing three times without
the Boches opening the door.

At length the door opened, but inside the porch it was very dark, and
when she knocked at the window of the concierge's room to ask for her
key, the concierge, who was half asleep, pulled out some rigmarole
which she could make nothing of at first. She eventually understood
that Poisson, the policeman, had brought Coupeau home in a frightful
state, and that the key was no doubt in the lock.

"The deuce!" murmured Lantier, when they had entered, "whatever has he
been up to here? The stench is abominable."

There was indeed a most powerful stench. As Gervaise went to look for
matches, she stepped into something messy. After she succeeded in
lighting a candle, a pretty sight met their eyes. Coupeau appeared to
have disgorged his very insides. The bed was splattered all over, so
was the carpet, and even the bureau had splashes on its sides. Besides
that, he had fallen from the bed where Poisson had probably thrown
him, and was snoring on the floor in the midst of the filth like a pig
wallowing in the mire, exhaling his foul breath through his open
mouth. His grey hair was straggling into the puddle around his head.

"Oh! the pig! the pig!" repeated Gervaise, indignant and exasperated.
"He's dirtied everything. No, a dog wouldn't have done that, even a
dead dog is cleaner."

They both hesitated to move, not knowing where to place their feet.
Coupeau had never before come home and put the bedroom into such a
shocking state. This sight was a blow to whatever affection his wife
still had for him. Previously she had been forgiving and not seriously
offended, even when he had been blind drunk. But this made her sick;
it was too much. She wouldn't have touched Coupeau for the world, and
just the thought of this filthy bum touching her caused a repugnance
such as she might have felt had she been required to sleep beside the
corpse of someone who had died from a terrible disease.

"Oh, I must get into that bed," murmured she. "I can't go and sleep in
the street. Oh! I'll crawl into it foot first."

She tried to step over the drunkard, but had to catch hold of a corner
of the chest of drawers to save herself from slipping in the mess.
Coupeau completely blocked the way to the bed. Then, Lantier, who
laughed to himself on seeing that she certainly could not sleep on her
own pillow that night, took hold of her hand, saying, in a low and
angry voice:

"Gervaise, he is a pig."

She understood what he meant and pulled her hand free. She sighed to
herself, and, in her bewilderment, addressed him familiarly, as in the
old days.

"No, leave me alone, Auguste. Go to your own bed. I'll manage somehow
to lie at the foot of the bed."

"Come, Gervaise, don't be foolish," resumed he. "It's too abominable;
you can't remain here. Come with me. He won't hear us. What are you
afraid of?"

"No," she replied firmly, shaking her head vigorously. Then, to show
that she would remain where she was, she began to take off her
clothes, throwing her silk dress over a chair. She was quickly in only
her chemise and petticoat. Well, it was her own bed. She wanted to
sleep in her own bed and made two more attempts to reach a clean
corner of the bed.

Lantier, having no intention of giving up, whispered things to her.

What a predicament she was in, with a louse of a husband that
prevented her from crawling under her own blankets and a low skunk
behind her just waiting to take advantage of the situation to possess
her again. She begged Lantier to be quiet. Turning toward the small
room where Nana and mother Coupeau slept, she listened anxiously. She
could hear only steady breathing.

"Leave me alone, Auguste," she repeated. "You'll wake them. Be
sensible."

Lantier didn't answer, but just smiled at her. Then he began to kiss
her on the ear just as in the old days.

Gervaise felt like sobbing. Her strength deserted her; she felt a
great buzzing in her ears, a violent tremor passed through her. She
advanced another step forward. And she was again obliged to draw back.
It was not possible, the disgust was too great. She felt on the verge
of vomiting herself. Coupeau, overpowered by intoxication, lying as
comfortably as though on a bed of down, was sleeping off his booze,
without life in his limbs, and with his mouth all on one side. The
whole street might have entered and laughed at him, without a hair of
his body moving.

"Well, I can't help it," she faltered. "It's his own fault. /Mon
Dieu!/ He's forcing me out of my own bed. I've no bed any longer. No,
I can't help it. It's his own fault."

She was trembling so she scarcely knew what she was doing. While
Lantier was urging her into his room, Nana's face appeared at one of
the glass panes in the door of the little room. The young girl, pale
from sleep, had awakened and gotten out of bed quietly. She stared at
her father lying in his vomit. Then, she stood watching until her
mother disappeared into Lantier's room. She watched with the intensity
and the wide-open eyes of a vicious child aflame with curiosity.



                              CHAPTER IX

That winter mother Coupeau nearly went off in one of her coughing
fits. Each December she could count on her asthma keeping her on her
back for two and three weeks at a time. She was no longer fifteen, she
would be seventy-three on Saint-Anthony's day. With that she was very
rickety, getting a rattling in her throat for nothing at all, though
she was plump and stout. The doctor said she would go off coughing,
just time enough to say: "Good-night, the candle's out!"

When she was in her bed mother Coupeau became positively unbearable.
It is true though that the little room in which she slept with Nana
was not at all gay. There was barely room for two chairs between the
beds. The wallpaper, a faded gray, hung loose in long strips. The
small window near the ceiling let in only a dim light. It was like a
cavern. At night, as she lay awake, she could listen to the breathing
of the sleeping Nana as a sort of distraction; but in the day-time, as
there was no one to keep her company from morning to night, she
grumbled and cried and repeated to herself for hours together, as she
rolled her head on the pillow:

"Good heavens! What a miserable creature I am! Good heavens! What a
miserable creature I am! They'll leave me to die in prison, yes, in
prison!"

As soon as anyone called, Virginie or Madame Boche, to ask after her
health, she would not reply directly, but immediately started on her
list of complaints: "Oh, I pay dearly for the food I eat here. I'd be
much better off with strangers. I asked for a cup of tisane and they
brought me an entire pot of hot water. It was a way of saying that I
drank too much. I brought Nana up myself and she scurries away in her
bare feet every morning and I never see her again all day. Then at
night she sleeps so soundly that she never wakes up to ask me if I'm
in pain. I'm just a nuisance to them. They're waiting for me to die.
That will happen soon enough. I don't even have a son any more; that
laundress has taken him from me. She'd beat me to death if she wasn't
afraid of the law."

Gervaise was indeed rather hasty at times. The place was going to the
dogs, everyone's temper was getting spoilt and they sent each other to
the right about for the least word. Coupeau, one morning that he had a
hangover, exclaimed: "The old thing's always saying she's going to
die, and yet she never does!" The words struck mother Coupeau to the
heart. They frequently complained of how much she cost them, observing
that they would save a lot of money when she was gone.

When at her worst that winter, one afternoon, when Madame Lorilleux
and Madame Lerat had met at her bedside, mother Coupeau winked her eye
as a signal to them to lean over her. She could scarcely speak. She
rather hissed than said in a low voice:

"It's becoming indecent. I heard them last night. Yes, Clump-clump and
the hatter. And they were kicking up such a row together! Coupeau's
too decent for her."

And she related in short sentences, coughing and choking between each,
that her son had come home dead drunk the night before. Then, as she
was not asleep, she was easily able to account for all the noises, of
Clump-clump's bare feet tripping over the tiled floor, the hissing
voice of the hatter calling her, the door between the two rooms gently
closed, and the rest. It must have lasted till daylight. She could not
tell the exact time, because, in spite of her efforts, she had ended
by falling into a dose.

"What's most disgusting is that Nana might have heard everything,"
continued she. "She was indeed restless all the night, she who usually
sleeps so sound. She tossed about and kept turning over as though
there had been some lighted charcoal in her bed."

The other two women did not seem at all surprised.

"Of course!" murmured Madame Lorilleux, "it probably began the very
first night. But as it pleases Coupeau, we've no business to
interfere. All the same, it's not very respectable."

"As for me," declared Madame Lerat through clenched teeth, "if I'd
been there, I'd have thrown a fright into them. I'd have shouted
something, anything. A doctor's maid told me once that the doctor had
told her that a surprise like that, at a certain moment, could strike
a woman dead. If she had died right there, that would have been well,
wouldn't it? She would have been punished right where she had sinned."

It wasn't long until the entire neighborhood knew that Gervaise
visited Lantier's room every night. Madame Lorilleux was loudly
indignant, calling her brother a poor fool whose wife had shamed him.
And her poor mother, forced to live in the midst of such horrors. As a
result, the neighbors blamed Gervaise. Yes, she must have led Lantier
astray; you could see it in her eyes. In spite of the nasty gossip,
Lantier was still liked because he was always so polite. He always had
candy or flowers to give the ladies. /Mon Dieu!/ Men shouldn't be
expected to push away women who threw themselves at them. There was no
excuse for Gervaise. She was a disgrace. The Lorilleuxs used to bring
Nana up to their apartment in order to find out more details from her,
their godchild. But Nana would put on her expression of innocent
stupidity and lower her long silky eyelashes to hide the fire in her
eyes as she replied.

In the midst of this general indignation, Gervaise lived quietly on,
feeling tired out and half asleep. At first she considered herself
very sinful and felt a disgust for herself. When she left Lantier's
room she would wash her hands and scrub herself as if trying to get
rid of an evil stain. If Coupeau then tried to joke with her, she
would fly into a passion, and run and shiveringly dress herself in the
farthest corner of the shop; neither would she allow Lantier near her
soon after her husband had kissed her. She would have liked to have
changed her skin as she changed men. But she gradually became
accustomed to it. Soon it was too much trouble to scrub herself each
time. Her thirst for happiness led her to enjoy as much as she could
the difficult situation. She had always been disposed to make
allowances for herself, so why not for others? She only wanted to
avoid causing trouble. As long as the household went along as usual,
there was nothing to complain about.

Then, after all, she could not be doing anything to make Coupeau stop
drinking; matters were arranged so easily to the general satisfaction.
One is generally punished if one does what is not right. His
dissoluteness had gradually become a habit. Now it was as regular an
affair as eating and drinking. Each time Coupeau came home drunk, she
would go to Lantier's room. This was usually on Mondays, Tuesdays and
Wednesdays. Sometimes on other nights, if Coupeau was snoring too
loudly, she would leave in the middle of the night. It was not that
she cared more for Lantier, but just that she slept better in his
room.

Mother Coupeau never dared speak openly of it. But after a quarrel,
when the laundress had bullied her, the old woman was not sparing in
her allusions. She would say that she knew men who were precious fools
and women who were precious hussies, and she would mutter words far
more biting, with the sharpness of language pertaining to an old
waistcoat-maker. The first time this had occurred Gervaise looked at
her straight in the face without answering. Then, also avoiding going
into details, she began to defend herself with reasons given in a
general sort of way. When a woman had a drunkard for a husband, a pig
who lived in filth, that woman was to be excused if she sought for
cleanliness elsewhere. Once she pointed out that Lantier was just as
much her husband as Coupeau was. Hadn't she known him since she was
fourteen and didn't she have children by him?

Anyway, she'd like to see anyone make trouble for her. She wasn't the
only one around the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or. Madame Vigouroux, the coal-
dealer had a merry dance from morning to night. Then there was the
grocer's wife, Madame Lehongre with her brother-in-law. /Mon Dieu!/
What a slob of a fellow. He wasn't worth touching with a shovel. Even
the neat little clockmaker was said to have carried on with his own
daughter, a streetwalker. Ah, the entire neighborhood. Oh, she knew
plenty of dirt.

One day when mother Coupeau was more pointed than usual in her
observations, Gervaise had replied to her, clinching her teeth:

"You're confined to your bed and you take advantage of it. Listen!
You're wrong. You see that I behave nicely to you, for I've never
thrown your past life into your teeth. Oh! I know all about it. No,
don't cough. I've finished what I had to say. It's only to request you
to mind your own business, that's all!"

The old woman almost choked. On the morrow, Goujet having called about
his mother's washing when Gervaise happened to be out, mother Coupeau
called him to her and kept him some time seated beside her bed. She
knew all about the blacksmith's friendship, and had noticed that for
some time past he had looked dismal and wretched, from a suspicion of
the melancholy things that were taking place. So, for the sake of
gossiping, and out of revenge for the quarrel of the day before, she
bluntly told him the truth, weeping and complaining as though
Gervaise's wicked behavior did her some special injury. When Goujet
quitted the little room, he leant against the wall, almost stifling
with grief. Then, when the laundress returned home, mother Coupeau
called to her that Madame Goujet required her to go round with her
clothes, ironed or not; and she was so animated that Gervaise, seeing
something was wrong, guessed what had taken place and had a
presentiment of the unpleasantness which awaited her.

Very pale, her limbs already trembling, she placed the things in a
basket and started off. For years past she had not returned the
Goujets a sou of their money. The debt still amounted to four hundred
and twenty-five francs. She always spoke of her embarrassments and
received the money for the washing. It filled her with shame, because
she seemed to be taking advantage of the blacksmith's friendship to
make a fool of him. Coupeau, who had now become less scrupulous, would
chuckle and say that Goujet no doubt had fooled around with her a bit,
and had so paid himself. But she, in spite of the relations she had
fallen into with Coupeau, would indignantly ask her husband if he
already wished to eat of that sort of bread. She would not allow
anyone to say a word against Goujet in her presence; her affection for
the blacksmith remained like a last shred of her honor. Thus, every
time she took the washing home to those worthy people, she felt a
spasm of her heart the moment she put a foot on their stairs.

"Ah! it's you, at last!" said Madame Goujet sharply, on opening the
door to her. "When I'm in want of death, I'll send you to fetch him."

Gervaise entered, greatly embarrassed, not even daring to mutter an
excuse. She was no longer punctual, never came at the time arranged,
and would keep her customers waiting for days on end. Little by little
she was giving way to a system of thorough disorder.

"For a week past I've been expecting you," continued the lace-mender.
"And you tell falsehoods too; you send your apprentice to me with all
sorts of stories; you are then busy with my things, you will deliver
them the same evening, or else you've had an accident, the bundle's
fallen into a pail of water. Whilst all this is going on, I waste my
time, nothing turns up, and it worries me exceedingly. No, you're most
unreasonable. Come, what have you in your basket? Is everything there
now? Have you brought me the pair of sheets you've been keeping back
for a month past, and the chemise which was missing the last time you
brought home the washing?"

"Yes, yes," murmured Gervaise, "I have the chemise. Here it is."

But Madame Goujet cried out. That chemise was not hers, she would have
nothing to do with it. Her things were changed now; it was too bad!
Only the week before, there were two handkerchiefs which hadn't her
mark on them. It was not to her taste to have clothes coming from no
one knew where. Besides that, she liked to have her own things.

"And the sheets?" she resumed. "They're lost, aren't they? Well!
Woman, you must see about them, for I insist upon having them
to-morrow morning, do you hear?"

There was a silence which particularly bothered Gervaise when she
noticed that the door to Goujet's room was open. If he was in there,
it was most annoying that he should hear these just criticisms. She
made no reply, meekly bowing her head, and placing the laundry on the
bed as quickly as possible.

Matters became worse when Madame Goujet began to look over the things,
one by one. She took hold of them and threw them down again saying:

"Ah! you don't get them up nearly so well as you used to do. One can't
compliment you every day now. Yes, you've taken to mucking your work--
doing it in a most slovenly way. Just look at this shirt-front, it's
scorched, there's the mark of the iron on the plaits; and the buttons
have all been torn off. I don't know how you manage it, but there's
never a button left on anything. Oh! now, here's a petticoat body
which I shall certainly not pay you for. Look there! The dirt's still
on it, you've simply smoothed it over. So now the things are not even
clean!"

She stopped whilst she counted the different articles. Then she
exclaimed:

"What! This is all you've brought? There are two pairs of stockings,
six towels, a table-cloth, and several dish-cloths short. You're
regularly trifling with me, it seems! I sent word that you were to
bring me everything, ironed or not. If your apprentice isn't here on
the hour with the rest of the things, we shall fall out, Madame
Coupeau, I warn you."

At this moment Goujet coughed in his room. Gervaise slightly started.
/Mon Dieu!/ How she was treated before him. And she remained standing
in the middle of the rooms, embarrassed and confused and waiting for
the dirty clothes; but after making up the account Madame Goujet had
quietly returned to her seat near the window, and resumed the mending
of a lace shawl.

"And the dirty things?" timidly inquired the laundress.

"No, thank you," replied the old woman, "there will be no laundry this
week."

Gervaise turned pale. She was no longer to have the washing. Then she
quite lost her head; she was obliged to sit down on a chair, for her
legs were giving way under her. She did not attempt to vindicate
herself. All that she would find to say was:

"Is Monsieur Goujet ill?"

Yes, he was not well. He had been obliged to come home instead of
returning to the forge, and he had gone to lie down on his bed to get
a rest. Madame Goujet talked gravely, wearing her black dress as usual
and her white face framed in her nun-like coif. The pay at the forge
had been cut again. It was now only seven francs a day because the
machines did so much of the work. This forced her to save money every
way she could. She would do her own washing from now on. It would
naturally have been very helpful if the Coupeaus had been able to
return her the money lent them by her son; but she was not going to
set the lawyers on them, as they were unable to pay. As she was
talking about the debt, Gervaise lowered her eyes in embarrassment.

"All the same," continued the lace-maker, "by pinching yourselves a
little you could manage to pay it off. For really now, you live very
well; and spend a great deal, I'm sure. If you were only to pay off
ten francs a month--"

She was interrupted by the sound of Goujet's voice as he called:

"Mamma! Mamma!"

And when she returned to her seat, which was almost immediately, she
changed the conversation. The blacksmith had doubtless begged her not
to ask Gervaise for money; but in spite of herself she again spoke of
the debt at the expiration of five minutes. Oh! She had foreseen long
ago what was now happening. Coupeau was drinking all that the laundry
business brought in and dragging his wife down with him. Her son would
never have loaned the money if he had only listened to her. By now he
would have been married, instead of miserably sad with only
unhappiness to look forward to for the rest of his life. She grew
quite stern and angry, even accusing Gervaise of having schemed with
Coupeau to take advantage of her foolish son. Yes, some women were
able to play the hypocrite for years, but eventually the truth came
out.

"Mamma! Mamma!" again called Goujet, but louder this time.

She rose from her seat and when she returned she said, as she resumed
her lace mending:

"Go in, he wishes to see you."

Gervaise, all in a tremble left the door open. This scene filled her
with emotion because it was like an avowal of their affection before
Madame Goujet. She again beheld the quiet little chamber, with its
narrow iron bedstead, and papered all over with pictures, the whole
looking like the room of some girl of fifteen. Goujet's big body was
stretched on the bed. Mother Coupeau's disclosures and the things his
mother had been saying seemed to have knocked all the life out of his
limbs. His eyes were red and swollen, his beautiful yellow beard was
still wet. In the first moment of rage he must have punched away at
his pillow with his terrible fists, for the ticking was split and the
feathers were coming out.

"Listen, mamma's wrong," said he to the laundress in a voice that was
scarcely audible. "You owe me nothing. I won't have it mentioned
again."

He had raised himself up and was looking at her. Big tears at once
filled his eyes.

"Do you suffer, Monsieur Goujet?" murmured she. "What is the matter
with you? Tell me!"

"Nothing, thanks. I tired myself with too much work yesterday. I will
rest a bit."

Then, his heart breaking, he could not restrain himself and burst out:

"/Mon Dieu!/ Ah! /Mon Dieu!/ It was never to be--never. You swore it.
And now it is--it is! Ah, it pains me too much, leave me!"

And with his hand he gently and imploringly motioned to her to go. She
did not draw nearer to the bed. She went off as he requested her to,
feeling stupid, unable to say anything to soothe him. When in the
other room she took up her basket; but she did not go home. She stood
there trying to find something to say. Madame Goujet continued her
mending without raising her head. It was she who at length said:

"Well! Good-night; send me back my things and we will settle up
afterwards."

"Yes, it will be best so--good-night," stammered Gervaise.

She took a last look around the neatly arranged room and thought as
she shut the door that she seemed to be leaving some part of her
better self behind. She plodded blindly back to the laundry, scarcely
knowing where she was going.

When Gervaise arrived, she found mother Coupeau out of her bed,
sitting on a chair by the stove. Gervaise was too tired to scold her.
Her bones ached as though she had been beaten and she was thinking
that her life was becoming too hard to bear. Surely a quick death was
the only escape from the pain in her heart.

After this, Gervaise became indifferent to everything. With a vague
gesture of her hand she would send everybody about their business. At
each fresh worry she buried herself deeper in her only pleasure, which
was to have her three meals a day. The shop might have collapsed. So
long as she was not beneath it, she would have gone off willingly
without a chemise to her back. And the little shop was collapsing, not
suddenly, but little by little, morning and evening. One by one the
customers got angry, and sent their washing elsewhere. Monsieur
Madinier, Mademoiselle Remanjou, the Boches themselves had returned to
Madame Fauconnier, where they could count on great punctuality. One
ends by getting tired of asking for a pair of stockings for three
weeks straight, and of putting on shirts with grease stains dating
from the previous Sunday. Gervaise, without losing a bite, wished them
a pleasant journey, and spoke her mind about them, saying that she was
precious glad she would no longer have to poke her nose into their
filth. The entire neighborhood could quit her; that would relieve her
of the piles of stinking junk and give her less work to do.

Now her only customers were those who didn't pay regularly, the
street-walkers, and women like Madame Gaudron, whose laundry smelled
so bad that not one of the laundresses on the Rue Neuve would take it.
She had to let Madame Putois go, leaving only her apprentice, squint-
eyed Augustine, who seemed to grow more stupid as time passed.
Frequently there was not even enough work for the two of them and they
sat on stools all afternoon doing nothing.

Whilst idleness and poverty entered, dirtiness naturally entered also.
One would never have recognised that beautiful blue shop, the color of
heaven, which had once been Gervaise's pride. Its window-frames and
panes, which were never washed, were covered from top to bottom with
the splashes of the passing vehicles. On the brass rods in the windows
were displayed three grey rags left by customers who had died in the
hospital. And inside it was more pitiable still; the dampness of the
clothes hung up at the ceiling to dry had loosed all the wallpaper;
the Pompadour chintz hung in strips like cobwebs covered with dust;
the big stove, broken and in holes from the rough use of the poker,
looked in its corner like the stock in trade of a dealer in old iron;
the work-table appeared as though it had been used by a regiment,
covered as it was with wine and coffee stains, sticky with jam, greasy
from spilled gravy.

Gervaise was so at ease among it all that she never even noticed the
shop was getting filthy. She became used to it all, just as she got
used to wearing torn skirts and no longer washing herself carefully.
The disorder was like a warm nest.

Her own ease was her sole consideration; she did not care a pin for
anything else. The debts, though still increasing, no longer troubled
her. Her honesty gradually deserted her; whether she would be able to
pay or not was altogether uncertain, and she preferred not to think
about it. When her credit was stopped at one shop, she would open an
account at some other shop close by. She was in debt all over the
neighborhood, she owed money every few yards. To take merely the Rue
de la Goutte-d'Or, she no longer dared pass in front of the grocer's,
nor the charcoal-dealer's, nor the greengrocer's; and this obliged
her, whenever she required to be at the wash-house, to go round by the
Rue des Poissonniers, which was quite ten minutes out of her way. The
tradespeople came and treated her as a swindler. One evening the
dealer from whom she had purchased Lantier's furniture made a scene in
the street. Scenes like this upset her at the time, but were soon
forgotten and never spoiled her appetite. What a nerve to bother her
like that when she had no money to pay. They were all robbers anyway
and it served them right to have to wait. Well, she'd have to go
bankrupt, but she didn't intend to fret about it now.

Meanwhile mother Coupeau had recovered. For another year the household
jogged along. During the summer months there was naturally a little
more work--the white petticoats and the cambric dresses of the street-
walkers of the exterior Boulevard. The catastrophe was slowly
approaching; the home sank deeper into the mire every week; there were
ups and downs, however--days when one had to rub one's stomach before
the empty cupboard, and others when one ate veal enough to make one
burst. Mother Coupeau was for ever being seen in the street, hiding
bundles under her apron, and strolling in the direction of the pawn-
place in the Rue Polonceau. She strutted along with the air of a
devotee going to mass; for she did not dislike these errands; haggling
about money amused her; this crying up of her wares like a second-hand
dealer tickled the old woman's fancy for driving hard bargains. The
clerks knew her well and called her "Mamma Four Francs," because she
always demanded four francs when they offered three, on bundles no
bigger than two sous' worth of butter.

At the start, Gervaise took advantage of good weeks to get things back
from the pawn-shops, only to put them back again the next week. Later
she let things go altogether, selling her pawn tickets for cash.

One thing alone gave Gervaise a pang--it was having to pawn her clock
to pay an acceptance for twenty francs to a bailiff who came to seize
her goods. Until then, she had sworn rather to die of hunger than to
part with her clock. When mother Coupeau carried it away in a little
bonnet-box, she sunk on to a chair, without a particle of strength
left in her arms, her eyes full of tears, as though a fortune was
being torn from her. But when mother Coupeau reappeared with twenty-
five francs, the unexpected loan, the five francs profit consoled her;
she at once sent the old woman out again for four sous' worth of
brandy in a glass, just to toast the five-franc piece.

The two of them would often have a drop together, when they were on
good terms with each other. Mother Coupeau was very successful at
bringing back a full glass hidden in her apron pocket without spilling
a drop. Well, the neighbors didn't need to know, did they. But the
neighbors knew perfectly well. This turned the neighborhood even more
against Gervaise. She was devouring everything; a few more mouthfuls
and the place would be swept clean.

In the midst of this general demolishment, Coupeau continued to
prosper. The confounded tippler was as well as well could be. The sour
wine and the "vitriol" positively fattened him. He ate a great deal,
and laughed at that stick Lorilleux, who accused drink of killing
people, and answered him by slapping himself on the stomach, the skin
of which was so stretched by the fat that it resembled the skin of a
drum. He would play him a tune on it, the glutton's vespers, with
rolls and beats loud enough to have made a quack's fortune. Lorilleux,
annoyed at not having any fat himself, said that it was soft and
unhealthy. Coupeau ignored him and went on drinking more and more,
saying it was for his health's sake.

His hair was beginning to turn grey and his face to take on the
drunkard's hue of purplish wine. He continued to act like a
mischievous child. Well, it wasn't his concern if there was nothing
about the place to eat. When he went for weeks without work he became
even more difficult.

Still, he was always giving Lantier friendly slaps on the back. People
swore he had no suspicion at all. Surely something terrible would
happen if he ever found out. Madame Lerat shook her head at this. His
sister said she had known of husbands who didn't mind at all.

Lantier wasn't wasting away either. He took great care of himself,
measuring his stomach by the waist-board of his trousers, with the
constant dread of having to loosen the buckle or draw it tighter; for
he considered himself just right, and out of coquetry neither desired
to grow fatter nor thinner. That made him hard to please in the matter
of food, for he regarded every dish from the point of view of keeping
his waist as it was. Even when there was not a sou in the house, he
required eggs, cutlets, light and nourishing things. Since he was
sharing the lady of the house, he considered himself to have a half
interest in everything and would pocket any franc pieces he saw lying
about. He kept Gervaise running here and there and seemed more at home
than Coupeau. Nana was his favorite because he adored pretty little
girls, but he paid less and less attention to Etienne, since boys,
according to him, ought to know how to take care of themselves. If
anyone came to see Coupeau while he was out, Lantier, in shirt sleeves
and slippers, would come out of the back room with the bored
expression of a husband who has been disturbed, saying he would answer
for Coupeau as it was all the same.

Between these two gentlemen, Gervaise had nothing to laugh about. She
had nothing to complain of as regards her health, thank goodness! She
was growing too fat. But two men to coddle was often more than she
could manage. Ah! /Mon Dieu!/ one husband is already too much for a
woman! The worst was that they got on very well together, the rogues.
They never quarreled; they would chuckle in each other's faces, as
they sat of an evening after dinner, their elbows on the table; they
would rub up against one another all the live-long day, like cats
which seek and cultivate their pleasure. The days when they came home
in a rage, it was on her that they vented it. Go it! hammer away at
the animal! She had a good back; it made them all the better friends
when they yelled together. And it never did for her to give them tit-
for-tat. In the beginning, whenever one of them yelled at her, she
would appeal to the other, but this seldom worked. Coupeau had a foul
mouth and called her horrible things. Lantier chose his insults
carefully, but they often hurt her even more.

But one can get used to anything. Soon their nasty remarks and all the
wrongs done her by these two men slid off her smooth skin like water
off a duck's back. It was even easier to have them angry, because when
they were in good moods they bothered her too much, never giving her
time to get a bonnet ironed.

Yes, Coupeau and Lantier were wearing her out. The zinc-worker, sure
enough, lacked education; but the hatter had too much, or at least he
had education in the same way that dirty people have a white shirt,
with uncleanliness underneath it. One night, she dreamt that she was
on the edge of a wall; Coupeau was knocking her into it with a blow of
his fist, whilst Lantier was tickling her in the ribs to make her fall
quicker. Well! That resembled her life. It was no surprise if she was
becoming slipshod. The neighbors weren't fair in blaming her for the
frightful habits she had fallen into. Sometimes a cold shiver ran
through her, but things could have been worse, so she tried to make
the best of it. Once she had seen a play in which the wife detested
her husband and poisoned him for the sake of her lover. Wasn't it more
sensible for the three of them to live together in peace? In spite of
her debts and poverty she thought she was quite happy and could live
in peace if only Coupeau and Lantier would stop yelling at her so
much.

Towards the autumn, unfortunately, things became worse. Lantier
pretended he was getting thinner, and pulled a longer face over the
matter every day. He grumbled at everything, sniffed at the dishes of
potatoes--a mess he could not eat, he would say, without having the
colic. The least jangling now turned to quarrels, in which they
accused one another of being the cause of all their troubles, and it
was a devil of a job to restore harmony before they all retired for
the night.

Lantier sensed a crisis coming and it exasperated him to realise that
this place was already so thoroughly cleaned out that he could see the
day coming when he'd have to take his hat and seek elsewhere for his
bed and board. He had become accustomed to this little paradise where
he was nicely treated by everybody. He should have blamed himself for
eating himself out of house and home, but instead he blamed the
Coupeaus for letting themselves be ruined in less than two years. He
thought Gervaise was too extravagant. What was going to happen to them
now?

One evening in December they had no dinner at all. There was not a
radish left. Lantier, who was very glum, went out early, wandering
about in search of some other den where the smell of the kitchen would
bring a smile to one's face. He would now remain for hours beside the
stove wrapt in thought. Then, suddenly, he began to evince a great
friendship for the Poissons. He no longer teased the policeman and
even went so far as to concede that the Emperor might not be such a
bad fellow after all. He seemed to especially admire Virginie. No
doubt he was hoping to board with them. Virginie having acquainted him
with her desire to set up in some sort of business, he agreed with
everything she said, and declared that her idea was a most brilliant
one. She was just the person for trade--tall, engaging and active. Oh!
she would make as much as she liked. The capital had been available
for some time, thanks to an inheritance from an aunt. Lantier told her
of all the shopkeepers who were making fortunes. The time was right
for it; you could sell anything these days. Virginie, however,
hesitated; she was looking for a shop that was to be let, she did not
wish to leave the neighborhood. Then Lantier would take her into
corners and converse with her in an undertone for ten minutes at a
time. He seemed to be urging her to do something in spite of herself;
and she no longer said "no," but appeared to authorize him to act. It
was as a secret between them, with winks and words rapidly exchanged,
some mysterious understanding which betrayed itself even in their
handshakings.

From this moment the hatter would covertly watch the Coupeaus whilst
eating their dry bread, and becoming very talkative again, would
deafen them with his continual jeremiads. All day long Gervaise moved
in the midst of that poverty which he so obligingly spread out. /Mon
Dieu!/ he wasn't thinking of himself; he would go on starving with his
friends as long as they liked. But look at it with common sense. They
owed at least five hundred francs in the neighborhood. Besides which,
they were two quarters rent behind with the rent, which meant another
two hundred and fifty francs; the landlord, Monsieur Marescot, even
spoke of having them evicted if they did not pay him by the first of
January. Finally the pawn-place had absorbed everything, one could not
have got together three francs' worth of odds and ends, the clearance
had been so complete; the nails remained in the walls and that was all
and perhaps there were two pounds of them at three sous the pound.
Gervaise, thoroughly entangled in it all, her nerves quite upset by
this calculation, would fly into a passion and bang her fists down
upon the table or else she would end by bursting into tears like a
fool. One night she exclaimed:

"I'll be off to-morrow! I prefer to put the key under the door and to
sleep on the pavement rather than continue to live in such frights."

"It would be wiser," said Lantier slyly, "to get rid of the lease if
you could find someone to take it. When you are both decided to give
up the shop--"

She interrupted him more violently:

"At once, at once! Ah! it'll be a good riddance!"

Then the hatter became very practical. On giving up the lease one
would no doubt get the new tenant to be responsible for the two
overdue quarters. And he ventured to mention the Poissons, he reminded
them that Virginie was looking for a shop; theirs would perhaps suit
her. He remembered that he had heard her say she longed for one just
like it. But when Virginie's name was mentioned the laundress suddenly
regained her composure. We'll see how things go along. When you're
angry you always talk of quitting, but it isn't so easy when you just
stop to think about it.

During the following days it was in vain that Lantier harped upon the
subject. Gervaise replied that she had seen herself worse off and had
pulled through. How would she be better off when she no longer had her
shop? That would not put bread into their mouths. She would, on the
contrary, engage some fresh workwomen and work up a fresh connection.

Lantier made the mistake of mentioning Virginie again. This stirred
Gervaise into furious obstinacy. No! Never! She had always had her
suspicions of what was in Virginie's heart. Virginie only wanted to
humiliate her. She would rather turn it over to the first woman to
come in from the street than to that hypocrite who had been waiting
for years to see her fail. Yes, Virginie still had in mind that fight
in the wash-house. Well, she'd be wiser to forget about it, unless she
wanted another one now.

In the face of this flow of angry retorts, Lantier began by attacking
Gervaise. He called her stupid and stuck-up. He even went so far as to
abuse Coupeau, accusing him of not knowing how to make his wife
respect his friend. Then, realising that passion would compromise
everything, he swore that he would never again interest himself in the
affairs of other people, for one always got more kicks than thanks;
and indeed he appeared to have given up all idea of talking them into
parting with the lease, but he was really watching for a favorable
opportunity of broaching the subject again and of bringing the
laundress round to his views.

January had now arrived; the weather was wretched, both damp and cold.
Mother Coupeau, who had coughed and choked all through December, was
obliged to take to her bed after Twelfth-night. It was her annuity,
which she expected every winter. This winter though, those around her
said she'd never come out of her bedroom except feet first. Indeed,
her gaspings sounded like a death rattle. She was still fat, but one
eye was blind and one side of her face was twisted. The doctor made
one call and didn't return again. They kept giving her tisanes and
going to check on her every hour. She could no longer speak because
her breathing was so difficult.

One Monday evening, Coupeau came home totally drunk. Ever since his
mother was in danger, he had lived in a continual state of deep
emotion. When he was in bed, snoring soundly, Gervaise walked about
the place for a while. She was in the habit of watching over mother
Coupeau during a part of the night. Nana had showed herself very
brave, always sleeping beside the old woman, and saying that if she
heard her dying, she would wake everyone. Since the invalid seemed to
be sleeping peacefully this night, Gervaise finally yielded to the
appeals of Lantier to come into his room for a little rest. They only
kept a candle alight, standing on the ground behind the wardrobe. But
towards three o'clock Gervaise abruptly jumped out of bed, shivering
and oppressed with anguish. She thought she had felt a cold breath
pass over her body. The morsel of candle had burnt out; she tied on
her petticoats in the dark, all bewildered, and with feverish hands.
It was not till she got into the little room, after knocking up
against the furniture, that she was able to light a small lamp. In the
midst of the oppressive silence of night, the zinc-worker's snores
alone sounded as two grave notes. Nana, stretched on her back, was
breathing gently between her pouting lips. And Gervaise, holding down
the lamp which caused big shadows to dance about the room, cast the
light on mother Coupeau's face, and beheld it all white, the head
lying on the shoulder, the eyes wide open. Mother Coupeau was dead.

Gently, without uttering a cry, icy cold yet prudent, the laundress
returned to Lantier's room. He had gone to sleep again. She bent over
him and murmured:

"Listen, it's all over, she's dead."

Heavy with sleep, only half awake, he grunted at first:

"Leave me alone, get into bed. We can't do her any good if she's
dead."

Then he raised himself on his elbow and asked:

"What's the time?"

"Three o'clock."

"Only three o'clock! Get into bed quick. You'll catch cold. When it's
daylight, we'll see what's to be done."

But she did not listen to him, she dressed herself completely.
Bundling himself in the blankets, Lantier muttered about how stubborn
women were. What was the hurry to announce a death in the house? He
was irritated at having his sleep spoiled by such gloomy matters.

Meanwhile, Gervaise had moved her things back into her own room. Then
she felt free to sit down and cry, no longer fearful of being caught
in Lantier's room. She had been fond of mother Coupeau and felt a deep
sorrow at her loss. She sat, crying by herself, her sobs loud in the
silence, but Coupeau never stirred. She had spoken to him and even
shaken him and finally decided to let him sleep. He would be more of a
nuisance if he woke up.

On returning to the body, she found Nana sitting up in bed rubbing her
eyes. The child understood, and with her vicious urchin's curiosity,
stretched out her neck to get a better view of her grandmother; she
said nothing but she trembled slightly, surprised and satisfied in the
presence of this death which she had been promising herself for two
days past, like some nasty thing hidden away and forbidden to
children; and her young cat-like eyes dilated before that white face
all emaciated at the last gasp by the passion of life, she felt that
tingling in her back which she felt behind the glass door when she
crept there to spy on what was no concern of chits like her.

"Come, get up," said her mother in a low voice. "You can't remain
here."

She regretfully slid out of bed, turning her head round and not taking
her eyes off the corpse. Gervaise was much worried about her, not
knowing where to put her till day-time. She was about to tell her to
dress herself, when Lantier, in his trousers and slippers, rejoined
her. He could not get to sleep again, and was rather ashamed of his
behavior. Then everything was arranged.

"She can sleep in my bed," murmured he. "She'll have plenty of room."

Nana looked at her mother and Lantier with her big, clear eyes and put
on her stupid air, the same as on New Year's day when anyone made her
a present of a box of chocolate candy. And there was certainly no need
for them to hurry her. She trotted off in her night-gown, her bare
feet scarcely touching the tiled floor; she glided like a snake into
the bed, which was still quite warm, and she lay stretched out and
buried in it, her slim body scarcely raising the counterpane. Each
time her mother entered the room she beheld her with her eyes
sparkling in her motionless face--not sleeping, not moving, very red
with excitement, and appearing to reflect on her own affairs.

Lantier assisted Gervaise in dressing mother Coupeau--and it was not
an easy matter, for the body was heavy. One would never have thought
that that old woman was so fat and so white. They put on her
stockings, a white petticoat, a short linen jacket and a white cap--in
short, the best of her linen. Coupeau continued snoring, a high note
and a low one, the one sharp, the other flat. One could almost have
imagined it to be church music accompanying the Good Friday
ceremonies. When the corpse was dressed and properly laid out on the
bed, Lantier poured himself out a glass of wine, for he felt quite
upset. Gervaise searched the chest of drawers to find a little brass
crucifix which she had brought from Plassans, but she recollected that
mother Coupeau had, in all probability, sold it herself. They had
lighted the stove, and they passed the rest of the night half asleep
on chairs, finishing the bottle of wine that had been opened, worried
and sulking, as though it was their own fault.

Towards seven o'clock, before daylight, Coupeau at length awoke. When
he learnt his loss he at first stood still with dry eyes, stuttering
and vaguely thinking that they were playing him some joke. Then he
threw himself on the ground and went and knelt beside the corpse. His
kissed it and wept like a child, with such a copious flow of tears
that he quite wetted the sheet with wiping his cheeks. Gervaise had
recommenced sobbing, deeply affected by her husband's grief, and the
best of friends with him again. Yes, he was better at heart than she
thought he was. Coupeau's despair mingled with a violent pain in his
head. He passed his fingers through his hair. His mouth was dry, like
on the morrow of a booze, and he was still a little drunk in spite of
his ten hours of sleep. And, clenching his fist, he complained aloud.
/Mon Dieu!/ she was gone now, his poor mother, whom he loved so much!
Ah! what a headache he had; it would settle him! It was like a wig of
fire! And now they were tearing out his heart! No, it was not just of
fate thus to set itself against one man!

"Come, cheer up, old fellow," said Lantier, raising him from the
ground; "you must pull yourself together."

He poured him out a glass of wine, but Coupeau refused to drink.

"What's the matter with me? I've got copper in my throat. It's mamma.
When I saw her I got a taste of copper in my mouth. Mamma! /Mon Dieu!/
mamma, mamma!"

And he recommenced crying like a child. Then he drank the glass of
wine, hoping to put out the flame searing his breast. Lantier soon
left, using the excuse of informing the family and filing the
necessary declaration at the town hall. Really though, he felt the
need of fresh air, and so he took his time, smoking cigarettes and
enjoying the morning air. When he left Madame Lerat's house, he went
into a dairy place on Les Batignolles for a cup of hot coffee and
remained there an hour, thinking things over.

Towards nine o'clock the family were all united in the shop, the
shutters of which were kept up. Lorilleux did not cry. Moreover he had
some pressing work to attend to, and he returned almost directly to
his room, after having stalked about with a face put on for the
occasion. Madame Lorilleux and Madame Lerat embraced the Coupeaus and
wiped their eyes, from which a few tears were falling. But Madame
Lorilleux, after giving a hasty glance round the death chamber,
suddenly raised her voice to say that it was unheard of, that one
never left a lighted lamp beside a corpse; there should be a candle,
and Nana was sent to purchase a packet of tall ones. Ah, well! It made
one long to die at Clump-clump's, she laid one out in such a fine
fashion! What a fool, not even to know what to do with a corpse! Had
she then never buried anyone in her life? Madame Lerat had to go to
the neighbors and borrow a crucifix; she brought one back which was
too big, a cross of black wood with a Christ in painted cardboard
fastened to it, which covered the whole of mother Coupeau's chest, and
seemed to crush her under its weight. Then they tried to obtain some
holy water, but no one had any, and it was again Nana who was sent to
the church to bring some back in a bottle. In practically no time the
tiny room presented quite another appearance; on a little table a
candle was burning beside a glass full of holy water into which a
sprig of boxwood was dipped. Now, if anyone came, it would at least
look decent. And they arranged the chairs in a circle in the shop for
receiving people.

Lantier only returned at eleven o'clock. He had been to the
undertaker's for information.

"The coffin is twelve francs," said he. "If you desire a mass, it will
be ten francs more. Then there's the hearse, which is charged for
according to the ornaments."

"Oh! it's quite unnecessary to be fancy," murmured Madame Lorilleux,
raising her head in a surprised and anxious manner. "We can't bring
mamma to life again, can we? One must do according to one's means."

"Of course, that's just what I think," resumed the hatter. "I merely
asked the prices to guide you. Tell me what you desire; and after
lunch I will give the orders."

They were talking in lowered voices. Only a dim light came into the
room through the cracks in the shutters. The door to the little room
stood half open, and from it came the deep silence of death.
Children's laughter echoed in the courtyard. Suddenly they heard the
voice of Nana, who had escaped from the Boches to whom she had been
sent. She was giving commands in her shrill voice and the children
were singing a song about a donkey.

Gervaise waited until it was quiet to say:

"We're not rich certainly; but all the same we wish to act decently.
If mother Coupeau has left us nothing, it's no reason for pitching her
into the ground like a dog. No; we must have a mass, and a hearse with
a few ornaments."

"And who will pay for them?" violently inquired Madame Lorilleux. "Not
we, who lost some money last week; and you either, as you're stumped.
Ah! you ought, however, to see where it has led you, this trying to
impress people!"

Coupeau, when consulted, mumbled something with a gesture of profound
indifference, and then fell asleep again on his chair. Madame Lerat
said that she would pay her share. She was of Gervaise's opinion, they
should do things decently. Then the two of them fell to making
calculations on a piece of paper: in all, it would amount to about
ninety francs, because they decided, after a long discussion, to have
a hearse ornamented with a narrow scallop.

"We're three," concluded the laundress. "We'll give thirty francs
each. It won't ruin us."

But Madame Lorilleux broke out in a fury.

"Well! I refuse, yes, I refuse! It's not for the thirty francs. I'd
give a hundred thousand, if I had them, and if it would bring mamma to
life again. Only, I don't like vain people. You've got a shop, you
only dream of showing off before the neighborhood. We don't fall in
with it, we don't. We don't try to make ourselves out what we are not.
Oh! you can manage it to please yourself. Put plumes on the hearse if
it amuses you."

"No one asks you for anything," Gervaise ended by answering. "Even
though I should have to sell myself, I'll not have anything to
reproach myself with. I've fed mother Coupeau without your help, and I
can certainly bury her without your help also. I already once before
gave you a bit of my mind; I pick up stray cats, I'm not likely to
leave your mother in the mire."

Then Madame Lorilleux burst into tears and Lantier had to prevent her
from leaving. The argument became so noisy that Madame Lerat felt she
had to go quietly into the little room and glance tearfully at her
dead mother, as though fearing to find her awake and listening. Just
at this moment the girls playing in the courtyard, led by Nana, began
singing again.

"/Mon Dieu!/ how those children grate on one's nerves with their
singing!" said Gervaise, all upset and on the point of sobbing with
impatience and sadness. Turning to the hatter, she said:

"Do please make them leave off, and send Nana back to the concierge's
with a kick."

Madame Lerat and Madame Lorilleux went away to eat lunch, promising to
return. The Coupeaus sat down to eat a bite without much appetite,
feeling hesitant about even raising a fork. After lunch Lantier went
to the undertaker's again with the ninety francs. Thirty had come from
Madame Lerat and Gervaise had run, with her hair all loose, to borrow
sixty francs from Goujet.

Several of the neighbors called in the afternoon, mainly out of
curiosity. They went into the little room to make the sign of the
cross and sprinkle some holy water with the boxwood sprig. Then they
sat in the shop and talked endlessly about the departed. Mademoiselle
Remanjou had noticed that her right eye was still open. Madame Gaudron
maintained that she had a fine complexion for her age. Madame
Fauconnier kept repeating that she had seen her having coffee only
three days earlier.

Towards evening the Coupeaus were beginning to have had enough of it.
It was too great an affliction for a family to have to keep a corpse
so long a time. The government ought to have made a new law on the
subject. All through another evening, another night, and another
morning--no! it would never come to an end. When one no longer weeps,
grief turns to irritation; is it not so? One would end by misbehaving
oneself. Mother Coupeau, dumb and stiff in the depths of the narrow
chamber, was spreading more and more over the lodging and becoming
heavy enough to crush the people in it. And the family, in spite of
itself, gradually fell into the ordinary mode of life, and lost some
portion of its respect.

"You must have a mouthful with us," said Gervaise to Madame Lerat and
Madame Lorilleux, when they returned. "We're too sad; we must keep
together."

They laid the cloth on the work-table. Each one, on seeing the plates,
thought of the feastings they had had on it. Lantier had returned.
Lorilleux came down. A pastry-cook had just brought a meat pie, for
the laundress was too upset to attend to any cooking. As they were
taking their seats, Boche came to say that Monsieur Marescot asked to
be admitted, and the landlord appeared, looking very grave, and
wearing a broad decoration on his frock-coat. He bowed in silence and
went straight to the little room, where he knelt down. All the family,
leaving the table, stood up, greatly impressed. Monsieur Marescot,
having finished his devotions, passed into the shop and said to the
Coupeaus:

"I have come for the two quarters' rent that's overdue. Are you
prepared to pay?"

"No, sir, not quite," stammered Gervaise, greatly put out at hearing
this mentioned before the Lorilleuxs. "You see, with the misfortune
which has fallen upon us--"

"No doubt, but everyone has their troubles," resumed the landlord,
spreading out his immense fingers, which indicated the former workman.
"I am very sorry, but I cannot wait any longer. If I am not paid by
the morning after to-morrow, I shall be obliged to have you put out."

Gervaise, struck dumb, imploringly clasped her hands, her eyes full of
tears. With an energetic shake of his big bony head, he gave her to
understand that supplications were useless. Besides, the respect due
to the dead forbade all discussion. He discreetly retired, walking
backwards.

"A thousand pardons for having disturbed you," murmured he. "The
morning after to-morrow; do not forget."

And as on withdrawing he again passed before the little room, he
saluted the corpse a last time through the wide open door by devoutly
bending his knee.

They began eating and gobbled the food down very quickly, so as not to
seem to be enjoying it, only slowing down when they reached the
dessert. Occasionally Gervaise or one of the sisters would get up,
still holding her napkin, to look into the small room. They made
plenty of strong coffee to keep them awake through the night. The
Poissons arrived about eight and were invited for coffee.

Then Lantier, who had been watching Gervaise's face, seemed to seize
an opportunity that he had been waiting for ever since the morning. In
speaking of the indecency of landlords who entered houses of mourning
to demand their money, he said:

"He's a Jesuit, the beast, with his air of officiating at a mass! But
in your place, I'd just chuck up the shop altogether."

Gervaise, quite worn out and feeling weak and nervous, gave way and
replied:

"Yes, I shall certainly not wait for the bailiffs. Ah! it's more than
I can bear--more than I can bear."

The Lorilleuxs, delighted at the idea that Clump-clump would no longer
have a shop, approved the plan immensely. One could hardly conceive
the great cost a shop was. If she only earned three francs working for
others she at least had no expenses; she did not risk losing large
sums of money. They repeated this argument to Coupeau, urging him on;
he drank a great deal and remained in a continuous fit of sensibility,
weeping all day by himself in his plate. As the laundress seemed to be
allowing herself to be convinced, Lantier looked at the Poissons and
winked. And tall Virginie intervened, making herself most amiable.

"You know, we might arrange the matter between us. I would relieve you
of the rest of the lease and settle your matter with the landlord. In
short, you would not be worried nearly so much."

"No thanks," declared Gervaise, shaking herself as though she felt a
shudder pass over her. "I'll work; I've got my two arms, thank heaven!
to help me out of my difficulties."

"We can talk about it some other time," the hatter hastened to put in.
"It's scarcely the thing to do so this evening. Some other time--in
the morning for instance."

At this moment, Madame Lerat, who had gone into the little room,
uttered a faint cry. She had had a fright because she had found the
candle burnt out. They all busied themselves in lighting another; they
shook their heads, saying that it was not a good sign when the light
went out beside a corpse.

The wake commenced. Coupeau had gone to lie down, not to sleep, said
he, but to think; and five minutes afterwards he was snoring. When
they sent Nana off to sleep at the Boches' she cried; she had been
looking forward ever since the morning to being nice and warm in her
good friend Lantier's big bed. The Poissons stayed till midnight. Some
hot wine had been made in a salad-bowl because the coffee affected the
ladies' nerves too much. The conversation became tenderly effusive.
Virginie talked of the country: she would like to be buried at the
corner of a wood with wild flowers on her grave. Madame Lerat had
already put by in her wardrobe the sheet for her shroud, and she kept
it perfumed with a bunch of lavender; she wished always to have a nice
smell under her nose when she would be eating the dandelions by the
roots. Then, with no sort of transition, the policeman related that he
had arrested a fine girl that morning who had been stealing from a
pork-butcher's shop; on undressing her at the commissary of police's
they had found ten sausages hanging round her body. And Madame
Lorilleux having remarked, with a look of disgust, that she would not
eat any of those sausages, the party burst into a gentle laugh. The
wake became livelier, though not ceasing to preserve appearances.

But just as they were finishing the hot wine a peculiar noise, a dull
trickling sound, issued from the little room. All raised their heads
and looked at each other.

"It's nothing," said Lantier quietly, lowering his voice. "She's
emptying."

The explanation caused the others to nod their heads in a reassured
way, and they replaced their glasses on the table.

When the Poissons left for home, Lantier left also, saying he would
sleep with a friend and leave his bed for the ladies in case they
wanted to take turns napping. Lorilleux went upstairs to bed. Gervaise
and the two sisters arranged themselves by the stove where they
huddled together close to the warmth, talking quietly. Coupeau was
still snoring.

Madame Lorilleux was complaining that she didn't have a black dress
and asked Gervaise about the black skirt they had given mother Coupeau
on her saint's day. Gervaise went to look for it. Madame Lorilleux
then wanted some of the old linen and mentioned the bed, the wardrobe,
and the two chairs as she looked around for other odds and ends.
Madame Lerat had to serve as peace maker when a quarrel nearly broke
out. She pointed out that as the Coupeaus had cared for their mother,
they deserved to keep the few things she had left. Soon they were all
dozing around the stove.

The night seemed terribly long to them. Now and again they shook
themselves, drank some coffee and stretched their necks in the
direction of the little room, where the candle, which was not to be
snuffed, was burning with a dull red flame, flickering the more
because of the black soot on the wick. Towards morning, they shivered,
in spite of the great heat of the stove. Anguish, and the fatigue of
having talked too much was stifling them, whilst their mouths were
parched, and their eyes ached. Madame Lerat threw herself on Lantier's
bed, and snored as loud as a man; whilst the other two, their heads
falling forward, and almost touching their knees, slept before the
fire. At daybreak, a shudder awoke them. Mother Coupeau's candle had
again gone out; and as, in the obscurity, the dull trickling sound
recommenced, Madame Lorilleux gave the explanation of it anew in a
loud voice, so as to reassure herself:

"She's emptying," repeated she, lighting another candle.

The funeral was to take place at half-past ten. A nice morning to add
to the night and the day before! Gervaise, though without a sou, said
she would have given a hundred francs to anybody who would have come
and taken mother Coupeau away three hours sooner. No, one may love
people, but they are too great a weight when they are dead; and the
more one has loved them, the sooner one would like to be rid of their
bodies.

The morning of a funeral is, fortunately, full of diversions. One has
all sorts of preparations to make. To begin with, they lunched. Then
it happened to be old Bazouge, the undertaker's helper, who lived on
the sixth floor, who brought the coffin and the sack of bran. He was
never sober, the worthy fellow. At eight o'clock that day, he was
still lively from the booze of the day before.

"This is for here, isn't it?" asked he.

And he laid down the coffin, which creaked like a new box. But as he
was throwing the sack of bran on one side, he stood with a look of
amazement in his eyes, his mouth opened wide, on beholding Gervaise
before him.

"Beg pardon, excuse me. I've made a mistake," stammered he. "I was
told it was for you."

He had already taken up the sack again, and the laundress was obliged
to call to him:

"Leave it alone, it's for here."

"Ah! /Mon Dieu!/ Now I understand!" resumed he, slapping his thigh.
"It's for the old lady."

Gervaise had turned quite pale. Old Bazouge had brought the coffin for
her. By way of apology, he tried to be gallant, and continued:

"I'm not to blame, am I? It was said yesterday that someone on the
ground floor had passed away. Then I thought--you know, in our
business, these things enter by one ear and go out by the other. All
the same, my compliments to you. As late as possible, eh? That's best,
though life isn't always amusing; ah! no, by no means."

As Gervaise listened to him, she draw back, afraid he would grab her
and take her away in the box. She remembered the time before, when he
had told her he knew of women who would thank him to come and get
them. Well, she wasn't ready yet. /Mon Dieu!/ The thought sent chills
down her spine. Her life may have been bitter, but she wasn't ready to
give it up yet. No, she would starve for years first.

"He's abominably drunk," murmured she, with an air of disgust mingled
with dread. "They at least oughtn't to send us tipplers. We pay dear
enough."

Then he became insolent, and jeered:

"See here, little woman, it's only put off until another time. I'm
entirely at your service, remember! You've only to make me a sign. I'm
the ladies' consoler. And don't spit on old Bazouge, because he's held
in his arms finer ones than you, who let themselves be tucked in
without a murmur, very pleased to continue their by-by in the dark."

"Hold your tongue, old Bazouge!" said Lorilleux severely, having
hastened to the spot on hearing the noise, "such jokes are highly
improper. If we complained about you, you would get the sack. Come, be
off, as you've no respect for principles."

Bazouge moved away, but one could hear him stuttering as he dragged
along the pavement:

"Well! What? Principles! There's no such thing as principles, there's
no such thing as principles--there's only common decency!"

At length ten o'clock struck. The hearse was late. There were already
several people in the shop, friends and neighbors--Monsieur Madinier,
My-Boots, Madame Gaudron, Mademoiselle Remanjou; and every minute, a
man's or a woman's head was thrust out of the gaping opening of the
door between the closed shutters, to see if that creeping hearse was
in sight. The family, all together in the back room, was shaking
hands. Short pauses occurred interrupted by rapid whisperings, a
tiresome and feverish waiting with sudden rushes of skirts--Madame
Lorilleux who had forgotten her handkerchief, or else Madame Lerat who
was trying to borrow a prayer-book. Everyone, on arriving, beheld the
open coffin in the centre of the little room before the bed; and in
spite of oneself, each stood covertly studying it, calculating that
plump mother Coupeau would never fit into it. They all looked at each
other with this thought in their eyes, though without communicating
it. But there was a slight pushing at the front door. Monsieur
Madinier, extending his arms, came and said in a low grave voice:

"Here they are!"

It was not the hearse though. Four helpers entered hastily in single
file, with their red faces, their hands all lumpy like persons in the
habit of moving heavy things, and their rusty black clothes worn and
frayed from constant rubbing against coffins. Old Bazouge walked
first, very drunk and very proper. As soon as he was at work he found
his equilibrium. They did not utter a word, but slightly bowed their
heads, already weighing mother Coupeau with a glance. And they did not
dawdle; the poor old woman was packed in, in the time one takes to
sneeze. A young fellow with a squint, the smallest of the men, poured
the bran into the coffin and spread it out. The tall and thin one
spread the winding sheet over the bran. Then, two at the feet and two
at the head, all four took hold of the body and lifted it. Mother
Coupeau was in the box, but it was a tight fit. She touched on every
side.

The undertaker's helpers were now standing up and waiting; the little
one with the squint took the coffin lid, by way of inviting the family
to bid their last farewell, whilst Bazouge had filled his mouth with
nails and was holding the hammer in readiness. Then Coupeau, his two
sisters and Gervaise threw themselves on their knees and kissed the
mamma who was going away, weeping bitterly, the hot tears falling on
and streaming down the stiff face now cold as ice. There was a
prolonged sound of sobbing. The lid was placed on, and old Bazouge
knocked the nails in with the style of a packer, two blows for each;
and they none of them could hear any longer their own weeping in that
din, which resembled the noise of furniture being repaired. It was
over. The time for starting had arrived.

"What a fuss to make at such a time!" said Madame Lorilleux to her
husband as she caught sight of the hearse before the door.

The hearse was creating quite a revolution in the neighborhood. The
tripe-seller called to the grocer's men, the little clockmaker came
out on to the pavement, the neighbors leant out of their windows; and
all these people talked about the scallop with its white cotton
fringe. Ah! the Coupeaus would have done better to have paid their
debts. But as the Lorilleuxs said, when one is proud it shows itself
everywhere and in spite of everything.

"It's shameful!" Gervaise was saying at the same moment, speaking of
the chainmaker and his wife. "To think that those skinflints have not
even brought a bunch of violets for their mother!"

The Lorilleuxs, true enough, had come empty-handed. Madame Lerat had
given a wreath of artificial flowers. And a wreath of immortelles and
a bouquet bought by the Coupeaus were also placed on the coffin. The
undertaker's helpers had to give a mighty heave to lift the coffin and
carry it to the hearse. It was some time before the procession was
formed. Coupeau and Lorilleux, in frock coats and with their hats in
their hands, were chief mourners. The first, in his emotion which two
glasses of white wine early in the morning had helped to sustain,
clung to his brother-in-law's arm, with no strength in his legs, and a
violent headache. Then followed the other men--Monsieur Madinier, very
grave and all in black; My-Boots, wearing a great-coat over his
blouse; Boche, whose yellow trousers produced the effect of a petard;
Lantier, Gaudron, Bibi-the-Smoker, Poisson and others. The ladies came
next--in the first row Madame Lorilleux, dragging the deceased's
skirt, which she had altered; Madame Lerat, hiding under a shawl her
hastily got-up mourning, a gown with lilac trimmings; and following
them, Virginie, Madame Gaudron, Madame Fauconnier, Mademoiselle
Remanjou and the rest. When the hearse started and slowly descended
the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or, amidst signs of the cross and heads bared,
the four helpers took the lead, two in front, the two others on the
right and left. Gervaise had remained behind to close the shop. She
left Nana with Madame Boche and ran to rejoin the procession, whilst
the child, firmly held by the concierge under the porch, watched with
a deeply interested gaze her grandmother disappear at the end of the
street in that beautiful carriage.

At the moment when Gervaise caught up with the procession, Goujet
arrived from another direction. He nodded to her so sympathetically
that she was reminded of how unhappy she was, and began to cry again
as Goujet took his place with the men.

The ceremony at the church was soon got through. The mass dragged a
little, though, because the priest was very old. My-Boots and Bibi-
the-Smoker preferred to remain outside on account of the collection.
Monsieur Madinier studied the priests all the while, and communicated
his observations to Lantier. Those jokers, though so glib with their
Latin, did not even know a word of what they were saying. They buried
a person just in the same way that they would have baptized or married
him, without the least feeling in their heart.

Happily, the cemetery was not far off, the little cemetery of La
Chapelle, a bit of a garden which opened on to the Rue Marcadet. The
procession arrived disbanded, with stampings of feet and everybody
talking of his own affairs. The hard earth resounded, and many would
have liked to have moved about to keep themselves warm. The gaping
hole beside which the coffin was laid was already frozen over, and
looked white and stony, like a plaster quarry; and the followers,
grouped round little heaps of gravel, did not find it pleasant
standing in such piercing cold, whilst looking at the hole likewise
bored them. At length a priest in a surplice came out of a little
cottage. He shivered, and one could see his steaming breath at each
/de profundis/ that he uttered. At the final sign of the cross he
bolted off, without the least desire to go through the service again.
The sexton took his shovel, but on account of the frost, he was only
able to detach large lumps of earth, which beat a fine tune down
below, a regular bombardment of the coffin, an enfilade of artillery
sufficient to make one think the wood was splitting. One may be a
cynic; nevertheless that sort of music soon upsets one's stomach. The
weeping recommenced. They moved off, they even got outside, but they
still heard the detonations. My-Boots, blowing on his fingers, uttered
an observation aloud.

"/Tonnerre de Dieu!/ poor mother Coupeau won't feel very warm!"

"Ladies and gentlemen," said the zinc-worker to the few friends who
remained in the street with the family, "will you permit us to offer
you some refreshments?"

He led the way to a wine shop in the Rue Marcadet, the "Arrival at the
Cemetery." Gervaise, remaining outside, called Goujet, who was moving
off, after again nodding to her. Why didn't he accept a glass of wine?
He was in a hurry; he was going back to the workshop. Then they looked
at each other a moment without speaking.

"I must ask your pardon for troubling you about the sixty francs," at
length murmured the laundress. "I was half crazy, I thought of you--"

"Oh! don't mention it; you're fully forgiven," interrupted the
blacksmith. "And you know, I am quite at your service if any
misfortune should overtake you. But don't say anything to mamma,
because she has her ideas, and I don't wish to cause her annoyance."

She gazed at him. He seemed to her such a good man, and sad-looking,
and so handsome. She was on the verge of accepting his former
proposal, to go away with him and find happiness together somewhere
else. Then an evil thought came to her. It was the idea of borrowing
the six months' back rent from him.

She trembled and resumed in a caressing tone of voice:

"We're still friends, aren't we?"

He shook his head as he answered:

"Yes, we'll always be friends. It's just that, you know, all is over
between us."

And he went off with long strides, leaving Gervaise bewildered,
listening to his last words which rang in her ears with the clang of a
big bell. On entering the wine shop, she seemed to hear a hollow voice
within her which said, "All is over, well! All is over; there is
nothing more for me to do if all is over!" Sitting down, she swallowed
a mouthful of bread and cheese, and emptied a glass full of wine which
she found before her.

The wine shop was a single, long room with a low ceiling occupied by
two large tables on which loaves of bread, large chunks of Brie cheese
and bottles of wine were set out. They ate informally, without a
tablecloth. Near the stove at the back the undertaker's helpers were
finishing their lunch.

"/Mon Dieu!/" exclaimed Monsieur Madinier, "we each have our time. The
old folks make room for the young ones. Your lodging will seem very
empty to you now when you go home."

"Oh! my brother is going to give notice," said Madame Lorilleux
quickly. "That shop's ruined."

They had been working upon Coupeau. Everyone was urging him to give up
the lease. Madame Lerat herself, who had been on very good terms with
Lantier and Virginie for some time past, and who was tickled with the
idea that they were a trifle smitten with each other, talked of
bankruptcy and prison, putting on the most terrified airs. And
suddenly, the zinc-worker, already overdosed with liquor, flew into a
passion, his emotion turned to fury.

"Listen," cried he, poking his nose in his wife's face; "I intend that
you shall listen to me! Your confounded head will always have its own
way. But, this time, I intend to have mine, I warn you!"

"Ah! well," said Lantier, "one never yet brought her to reason by fair
words; it wants a mallet to drive it into her head."

For a time they both went on at her. Meanwhile, the Brie was quickly
disappearing and the wine bottles were pouring like fountains.
Gervaise began to weaken under this persistent pounding. She answered
nothing, but hurried herself, her mouth ever full, as though she had
been very hungry. When they got tired, she gently raised her head and
said,

"That's enough, isn't it? I don't care a straw for the shop! I want no
more of it. Do you understand? It can go to the deuce! All is over!"

Then they ordered some more bread and cheese and talked business. The
Poissons took the rest of the lease and agreed to be answerable for
the two quarters' rent overdue. Boche, moreover, pompously agreed to
the arrangement in the landlord's name. He even then and there let a
lodging to the Coupeaus--the vacant one on the sixth floor, in the
same passage as the Lorilleuxs' apartment. As for Lantier, well! He
would like to keep his room, if it did not inconvenience the Poissons.
The policeman bowed; it did not inconvenience him at all; friends
always get on together, in spite of any difference in their political
ideas. And Lantier, without mixing himself up any more in the matter,
like a man who has at length settled his little business, helped
himself to an enormous slice of bread and cheese; he leant back in his
chair and ate devoutly, his blood tingling beneath his skin, his whole
body burning with a sly joy, and he blinked his eyes to peep first at
Gervaise, and then at Virginie.

"Hi! Old Bazouge!" called Coupeau, "come and have a drink. We're not
proud; we're all workers."

The four undertaker's helpers, who had started to leave, came back to
raise glasses with the group. They thought that the lady had weighed
quite a bit and they had certainly earned a glass of wine. Old Bazouge
gazed steadily at Gervaise without saying a word. It made her feel
uneasy though and she got up and left the men who were beginning to
show signs of being drunk. Coupeau began to sob again, saying he was
feeling very sad.

That evening when Gervaise found herself at home again, she remained
in a stupefied state on a chair. It seemed to her that the rooms were
immense and deserted. Really, it would be a good riddance. But it was
certainly not only mother Coupeau that she had left at the bottom of
the hole in the little garden of the Rue Marcadet. She missed too many
things, most likely a part of her life, and her shop, and her pride of
being an employer, and other feelings besides, which she had buried on
that day. Yes, the walls were bare, and her heart also; it was a
complete clear out, a tumble into the pit. And she felt too tired; she
would pick herself up again later on if she could.

At ten o'clock, when undressing, Nana cried and stamped. She wanted to
sleep in mother Coupeau's bed. Her mother tried to frighten her; but
the child was too precocious. Corpses only filled her with a great
curiosity; so that, for the sake of peace, she was allowed to lie down
in mother Coupeau's place. She liked big beds, the chit; she spread
herself out and rolled about. She slept uncommonly well that night in
the warm and pleasant feather bed.



                              CHAPTER X

The Coupeaus' new lodging was on the sixth floor, staircase B. After
passing Mademoiselle Remanjou's door, you took the corridor to the
left, and then turned again further along. The first door was for the
apartment of the Bijards. Almost opposite, in an airless corner under
a small staircase leading to the roof, was where Pere Bru slept. Two
doors further was Bazouge's room and the Coupeaus were opposite him,
overlooking the court, with one room and a closet. There were only two
more doors along the corridor before reaching that of the Lorilleuxs
at the far end.

A room and a closet, no more. The Coupeaus perched there now. And the
room was scarcely larger than one's hand. And they had to do
everything in there--eat, sleep, and all the rest. Nana's bed just
squeezed into the closet; she had to dress in her father and mother's
room, and her door was kept open at night-time so that she should not
be suffocated. There was so little space that Gervaise had left many
things in the shop for the Poissons. A bed, a table, and four chairs
completely filled their new apartment but she didn't have the courage
to part with her old bureau and so it blocked off half the window.
This made the room dark and gloomy, especially since one shutter was
stuck shut. Gervaise was now so fat that there wasn't room for her in
the limited window space and she had to lean sideways and crane her
neck if she wanted to see the courtyard.

During the first few days, the laundress would continually sit down
and cry. It seemed to her too hard, not being able to move about in
her home, after having been used to so much room. She felt stifled;
she remained at the window for hours, squeezed between the wall and
the drawers and getting a stiff neck. It was only there that she could
breathe freely. However, the courtyard inspired rather melancholy
thoughts. Opposite her, on the sunny side, she would see that same
window she had dreamed about long ago where the spring brought scarlet
vines. Her own room was on the shady side where pots of mignonette
died within a week. Oh, this wasn't at all the sort of life she had
dreamed of. She had to wallow in filth instead of having flowers all
about her.

On leaning out one day, Gervaise experienced a peculiar sensation: she
fancied she beheld herself down below, near the concierge's room under
the porch, her nose in the air, and examining the house for the first
time; and this leap thirteen years backwards caused her heart to
throb. The courtyard was a little dingier and the walls more stained,
otherwise it hadn't changed much. But she herself felt terribly
changed and worn. To begin with, she was no longer below, her face
raised to heaven, feeling content and courageous and aspiring to a
handsome lodging. She was right up under the roof, among the most
wretched, in the dirtiest hole, the part that never received a ray of
sunshine. And that explained her tears; she could scarcely feel
enchanted with her fate.

However, when Gervaise had grown somewhat used to it, the early days
of the little family in their new home did not pass off so badly. The
winter was almost over, and the trifle of money received for the
furniture sold to Virginie helped to make things comfortable. Then
with the fine weather came a piece of luck, Coupeau was engaged to
work in the country at Etampes; and he was there for nearly three
months without once getting drunk, cured for a time by the fresh air.
One has no idea what a quench it is to the tippler's thirst to leave
Paris where the very streets are full of the fumes of wine and brandy.
On his return he was as fresh as a rose, and he brought back in his
pocket four hundred francs with which they paid the two overdue
quarters' rent at the shop that the Poissons had become answerable
for, and also the most pressing of their little debts in the
neighborhood. Gervaise thus opened two or three streets through which
she had not passed for a long time.

She had naturally become an ironer again. Madame Fauconnier was quite
good-hearted if you flattered her a bit, and she was happy to take
Gervaise back, even paying her the same three francs a day as her best
worker. This was out of respect for her former status as an employer.
The household seemed to be getting on well and Gervaise looked forward
to the day when all the debts would be paid. Hard work and economy
would solve all their money troubles. Unfortunately, she dreamed of
this in the warm satisfaction of the large sum earned by her husband.
Soon, she said that the good things never lasted and took things as
they came.

What the Coupeaus most suffered from at that time was seeing the
Poissons installing themselves at their former shop. They were not
naturally of a particularly jealous disposition, but people aggravated
them by purposely expressing amazement in their presence at the
embellishments of their successors. The Boches and the Lorilleuxs
especially, never tired. According to them, no one had ever seen so
beautiful a shop. They were also continually mentioning the filthy
state in which the Poissons had found the premises, saying that it had
cost thirty francs for the cleaning alone.

After much deliberation, Virginie had decided to open a shop
specializing in candies, chocolate, coffee and tea. Lantier had
advised this, saying there was much money to be made from such
delicacies. The shop was stylishly painted black with yellow stripes.
Three carpenters worked for eight days on the interior, putting up
shelves, display cases and counters. Poisson's small inheritance must
have been almost completely used, but Virginie was ecstatic. The
Lorilleuxs and the Boches made sure that Gervaise did not miss a
single improvement and chuckled to themselves while watching her
expression.

There was also a question of a man beneath all this. It was reported
that Lantier had broken off with Gervaise. The neighborhood declared
that it was quite right. In short, it gave a moral tone to the street.
And all the honor of the separation was accorded to the crafty hatter
on whom all the ladies continued to dote. Some said that she was still
crazy about him and he had to slap her to make her leave him alone. Of
course, no one told the actual truth. It was too simple and not
interesting enough.

Actually Lantier climbed to the sixth floor to see her whenever he
felt the impulse. Mademoiselle Remanjou had often seen him coming out
of the Coupeaus' at odd hours.

The situation was even more complicated by neighborhood gossip linking
Lantier and Virginie. The neighbors were a bit too hasty in this also;
he had not even reached the stage of buttock-pinching with her. Still,
the Lorilleuxs delighted in talking sympathetically to Gervaise about
the affair between Lantier and Virginie. The Boches maintained they
had never seen a more handsome couple. The odd thing in all this was
that the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or seemed to have no objection to this new
arrangement which everyone thought was progressing nicely. Those who
had been so harsh to Gervaise were now quite lenient toward Virginie.

Gervaise had previously heard numerous reports about Lantier's affairs
with all sorts of girls on the street and they had bothered her so
little that she hadn't even felt enough resentment to break off the
affair. However, this new intrigue with Virginie wasn't quite so easy
to accept because she was sure that the two of them were just out to
spite her. She hid her resentment though to avoid giving any
satisfaction to her enemies. Mademoiselle Remanjou thought that
Gervaise had words with Lantier over this because one afternoon she
heard the sound of a slap. There was certainly a quarrel because
Lantier stopped speaking to Gervaise for a couple of weeks, but then
he was the first one to make up and things seemed to go along the same
as before.

Coupeau found all this most amusing. The complacent husband who had
been blind to his own situation laughed heartily at Poisson's
predicament. Then Coupeau even teased Gervaise. Her lovers always
dropped her. First the blacksmith and now the hatmaker. The trouble
was that she got involved with undependable trades. She should take up
with a mason, a good solid man. He said such things as if he were
joking, but they upset Gervaise because his small grey eyes seemed to
be boring right into her.

On evenings when Coupeau became bored being alone with his wife up in
their tiny hole under the roof, he would go down for Lantier and
invite him up. He thought their dump was too dreary without Lantier's
company so he patched things up between Gervaise and Lantier whenever
they had a falling out.

In the midst of all this Lantier put on the most consequential airs.
He showed himself both paternal and dignified. On three successive
occasions he had prevented a quarrel between the Coupeaus and the
Poissons. The good understanding between the two families formed a
part of his contentment. Thanks to the tender though firm glances with
which he watched over Gervaise and Virginie, they always pretended to
entertain a great friendship for each other. He reigned over both
blonde and brunette with the tranquillity of a pasha, and fattened on
his cunning. The rogue was still digesting the Coupeaus when he
already began to devour the Poissons. Oh, it did not inconvenience him
much! As soon as one shop was swallowed, he started on a second. It
was only men of his sort who ever have any luck.

It was in June of that year that Nana was confirmed. She was then
nearly thirteen years old, as tall as an asparagus shoot run to seed,
and had a bold, impudent air about her. The year before she had been
sent away from the catechism class on account of her bad behavior;
and the priest had only allowed her to join it this time through fear
of losing her altogether, and of casting one more heathen onto the
street. Nana danced for joy as she thought of the white dress. The
Lorilleuxs, being godfather and godmother, had promised to provide it,
and took care to let everyone in the house know of their present.
Madame Lerat was to give the veil and the cap, Virginie the purse, and
Lantier the prayer-book; so that the Coupeaus looked forward to the
ceremony without any great anxiety. Even the Poissons, wishing to give
a house-warming, chose this occasion, no doubt on the hatter's advice.
They invited the Coupeaus and the Boches, whose little girl was also
going to be confirmed. They provided a leg of mutton and trimmings for
the evening in question.

It so happened that on the evening before, Coupeau returned home in a
most abominable condition, just as Nana was lost in admiration before
the presents spread out on the top of the chest of drawers. The Paris
atmosphere was getting the better of him again; and he fell foul of
his wife and child with drunken arguments and disgusting language
which no one should have uttered at such a time. Nana herself was
beginning to get hold of some very bad expressions in the midst of the
filthy conversations she was continually hearing. On the days when
there was a row, she would often call her mother an old camel and a
cow.

"Where's my food?" yelled the zinc-worker. "I want my soup, you couple
of jades! There's females for you, always thinking of finery! I'll sit
on the gee-gaws, you know, if I don't get my soup!"

"He's unbearable when he's drunk," murmured Gervaise, out of patience;
and turning towards him, she exclaimed:

"It's warming up, don't bother us."

Nana was being modest, because she thought it nice on such a day. She
continued to look at the presents on the chest of drawers, affectedly
lowering her eyelids and pretending not to understand her father's
naughty words. But the zinc-worker was an awful plague on the nights
when he had had too much. Poking his face right against her neck, he
said:

"I'll give you white dresses! So the finery tickles your fancy. They
excite your imagination. Just you cut away from there, you ugly little
brat! Move your hands about, bundle them all into a drawer!"

Nana, with bowed head, did not answer a word. She had taken up the
little tulle cap and was asking her mother how much it cost. And as
Coupeau thrust out his hand to seize hold of the cap, it was Gervaise
who pushed him aside exclaiming:

"Do leave the child alone! She's very good, she's doing no harm."

Then the zinc-worker let out in real earnest.

"Ah! the viragos! The mother and daughter, they make the pair. It's a
nice thing to go to church just to leer at the men. Dare to say it
isn't true, little slattern! I'll dress you in a sack, just to disgust
you, you and your priests. I don't want you to be taught anything
worse than you know already. /Mon Dieu!/ Just listen to me, both of
you!"

At this Nana turned round in a fury, whilst Gervaise had to spread out
her arms to protect the things which Coupeau talked of tearing. The
child looked her father straight in the face; then, forgetting the
modest bearing inculcated by her confessor, she said, clinching her
teeth: "Pig!"

As soon as the zinc-worker had had his soup he went off to sleep. On
the morrow he awoke in a very good humor. He still felt a little of
the booze of the day before but only just sufficient to make him
amiable. He assisted at the dressing of the child, deeply affected by
the white dress and finding that a mere nothing gave the little vermin
quite the look of a young lady.

The two families started off together for the church. Nana and Pauline
walked first, their prayer-books in their hands and holding down their
veils on account of the wind; they did not speak but were bursting
with delight at seeing people come to their shop-doors, and they
smiled primly and devoutly every time they heard anyone say as they
passed that they looked very nice. Madame Boche and Madame Lorilleux
lagged behind, because they were interchanging their ideas about
Clump-clump, a gobble-all, whose daughter would never have been
confirmed if the relations had not found everything for her; yes,
everything, even a new chemise, out of respect for the holy altar.
Madame Lorilleux was rather concerned about the dress, calling Nana a
dirty thing every time the child got dust on her skirt by brushing
against the store fronts.

At church Coupeau wept all the time. It was stupid but he could not
help it. It affected him to see the priest holding out his arms and
all the little girls, looking like angels, pass before him, clasping
their hands; and the music of the organ stirred up his stomach and the
pleasant smell of the incense forced him to sniff, the same as though
someone had thrust a bouquet of flowers into his face. In short he
saw everything cerulean, his heart was touched. Anyway, other
sensitive souls around him were wetting their handkerchiefs. This was
a beautiful day, the most beautiful of his life. After leaving the
church, Coupeau went for a drink with Lorilleux, who had remained dry-
eyed.

That evening the Poissons' house-warming was very lively. Friendship
reigned without a hitch from one end of the feast to the other. When
bad times arrive one thus comes in for some pleasant evenings, hours
during which sworn enemies love each other. Lantier, with Gervaise on
his left and Virginie on his right, was most amiable to both of them,
lavishing little tender caresses like a cock who desires peace in his
poultry-yard. But the queens of the feast were the two little ones,
Nana and Pauline, who had been allowed to keep on their things; they
sat bolt upright through fear of spilling anything on their white
dresses and at every mouthful they were told to hold up their chins so
as to swallow cleanly. Nana, greatly bored by all this fuss, ended by
slobbering her wine over the body of her dress, so it was taken off
and the stains were at once washed out in a glass of water.

Then at dessert the children's future careers were gravely discussed.

Madame Boche had decided that Pauline would enter a shop to learn how
to punch designs on gold and silver. That paid five or six francs a
day. Gervaise didn't know yet because Nana had never indicated any
preference.

"In your place," said Madame Lerat, "I would bring Nana up as an
artificial flower-maker. It is a pleasant and clean employment."

"Flower-makers?" muttered Lorilleux. "Every one of them might as well
walk the streets."

"Well, what about me?" objected Madame Lerat, pursing her lips.
"You're certainly not very polite. I assure you that I don't lie down
for anyone who whistles."

Then all the rest joined together in hushing her. "Madame Lerat! Oh,
Madame Lerat!" By side glances they reminded her of the two girls,
fresh from communion, who were burying their noses in their glasses to
keep from laughing out loud. The men had been very careful, for
propriety's sake, to use only suitable language, but Madame Lerat
refused to follow their example. She flattered herself on her command
of language, as she had often been complimented on the way she could
say anything before children, without any offence to decency.

"Just you listen, there are some very fine women among the flower-
makers!" she insisted. "They're just like other women and they show
good taste when they choose to commit a sin."

"/Mon Dieu!/" interrupted Gervaise, "I've no dislike for artificial
flower-making. Only it must please Nana, that's all I care about; one
should never thwart children on the question of a vocation. Come Nana,
don't be stupid; tell me now, would you like to make flowers?"

The child was leaning over her plate gathering up the cake crumbs with
her wet finger, which she afterwards sucked. She did not hurry
herself. She grinned in her vicious way.

"Why yes, mamma, I should like to," she ended by declaring.

Then the matter was at once settled. Coupeau was quite willing that
Madame Lerat should take the child with her on the morrow to the place
where she worked in the Rue du Caire. And they all talked very gravely
of the duties of life. Boche said that Nana and Pauline were women now
that they had partaken of communion. Poisson added that for the future
they ought to know how to cook, mend socks and look after a house.
Something was even said of their marrying, and of the children they
would some day have. The youngsters listened, laughing to themselves,
elated by the thought of being women. What pleased them the most was
when Lantier teased them, asking if they didn't already have little
husbands. Nana eventually admitted that she cared a great deal for
Victor Fauconnier, son of her mother's employer.

"Ah well," said Madame Lorilleux to the Boches, as they were all
leaving, "she's our goddaughter, but as they're going to put her into
artificial flower-making, we don't wish to have anything more to do
with her. Just one more for the boulevards. She'll be leading them a
merry chase before six months are over."

On going up to bed, the Coupeaus agreed that everything had passed off
well and that the Poissons were not at all bad people. Gervaise even
considered the shop was nicely got up. She was surprised to discover
that it hadn't pained her at all to spend an evening there. While Nana
was getting ready for bed she contemplated her white dress and asked
her mother if the young lady on the third floor had had one like it
when she was married last month.

This was their last happy day. Two years passed by, during which they
sank deeper and deeper. The winters were especially hard for them. If
they had bread to eat during the fine weather, the rain and cold came
accompanied by famine, by drubbings before the empty cupboard, and by
dinner-hours with nothing to eat in the little Siberia of their
larder. Villainous December brought numbing freezing spells and the
black misery of cold and dampness.

The first winter they occasionally had a fire, choosing to keep warm
rather than to eat. But the second winter, the stove stood mute with
its rust, adding a chill to the room, standing there like a cast-iron
gravestone. And what took the life out of their limbs, what above all
utterly crushed them was the rent. Oh! the January quarter, when there
was not a radish in the house and old Boche came up with the bill! It
was like a bitter storm, a regular tempest from the north. Monsieur
Marescot then arrived the following Saturday, wrapped up in a good
warm overcoat, his big hands hidden in woolen gloves; and he was for
ever talking of turning them out, whilst the snow continued to fall
outside, as though it were preparing a bed for them on the pavement
with white sheets. To have paid the quarter's rent they would have
sold their very flesh. It was the rent which emptied the larder and
the stove.

No doubt the Coupeaus had only themselves to blame. Life may be a hard
fight, but one always pulls through when one is orderly and economical
--witness the Lorilleuxs, who paid their rent to the day, the money
folded up in bits of dirty paper. But they, it is true, led a life of
starved spiders, which would disgust one with hard work. Nana as yet
earned nothing at flower-making; she even cost a good deal for her
keep. At Madame Fauconnier's Gervaise was beginning to be looked down
upon. She was no longer so expert. She bungled her work to such an
extent that the mistress had reduced her wages to two francs a day,
the price paid to the clumsiest bungler. But she was still proud,
reminding everyone of her former status as boss of her own shop. When
Madame Fauconnier hired Madame Putois, Gervaise was so annoyed at
having to work beside her former employee that she stayed away for two
weeks.

As for Coupeau, he did perhaps work, but in that case he certainly
made a present of his labor to the Government, for since the time he
returned from Etampes Gervaise had never seen the color of his money.
She no longer looked in his hands when he came home on paydays. He
arrived swinging his arms, his pockets empty, and often without his
handkerchief; well, yes, he had lost his rag, or else some rascally
comrade had sneaked it. At first he always fibbed; there was a
donation to charity, or some money slipped through the hole in his
pocket, or he paid off some imaginary debts. Later, he didn't even
bother to make up anything. He had nothing left because it had all
gone into his stomach.

Madame Boche suggested to Gervaise that she go to wait for him at the
shop exit. This rarely worked though, because Coupeau's comrades would
warn him and the money would disappear into his shoe or someone else's
pocket.

Yes, it was their own fault if every season found them lower and
lower. But that's the sort of thing one never tells oneself,
especially when one is down in the mire. They accused their bad luck;
they pretended that fate was against them. Their home had become a
regular shambles where they wrangled the whole day long. However, they
had not yet come to blows, with the exception of a few impulsive
smacks, which somehow flew about at the height of their quarrels. The
saddest part of the business was that they had opened the cage of
affection; all their better feelings had taken flight, like so many
canaries. The genial warmth of father, mother and child, when united
together and wrapped up in each other, deserted them, and left them
shivering, each in his or her own corner. All three--Coupeau, Gervaise
and Nana--were always in the most abominable tempers, biting each
other's noses off for nothing at all, their eyes full of hatred; and
it seemed as though something had broken the mainspring of the family,
the mechanism which, with happy people, causes hearts to beat in
unison. Ah! it was certain Gervaise was no longer moved as she used to
be when she saw Coupeau at the edge of a roof forty or fifty feet
above the pavement. She would not have pushed him off herself, but if
he had fallen accidentally, in truth it would have freed the earth of
one who was of but little account. The days when they were more
especially at enmity she would ask him why he didn't come back on a
stretcher. She was awaiting it. It would be her good luck they were
bringing back to her. What use was he--that drunkard? To make her
weep, to devour all she possessed, to drive her to sin. Well! Men so
useless as he should be thrown as quickly as possible into the hole
and the polka of deliverance be danced over them. And when the mother
said "Kill him!" the daughter responded "Knock him on the head!" Nana
read all of the reports of accidents in the newspapers, and made
reflections that were unnatural for a girl. Her father had such good
luck an omnibus had knocked him down without even sobering him. Would
the beggar never croak?

In the midst of her own poverty Gervaise suffered even more because
other families around her were also starving to death. Their corner of
the tenement housed the most wretched. There was not a family that ate
every day.

Gervaise felt the most pity for Pere Bru in his cubbyhole under the
staircase where he hibernated. Sometimes he stayed on his bed of straw
without moving for days. Even hunger no longer drove him out since
there was no use taking a walk when no one would invite him to dinner.
Whenever he didn't show his face for several days, the neighbors would
push open his door to see if his troubles were over. No, he was still
alive, just barely. Even Death seemed to have neglected him. Whenever
Gervaise had any bread she gave him the crusts. Even when she hated
all men because of her husband, she still felt sincerely sorry for
Pere Bru, the poor old man. They were letting him starve to death
because he could no longer hold tools in his hand.

The laundress also suffered a great deal from the close neighborhood
of Bazouge, the undertaker's helper. A simple partition, and a very
thin one, separated the two rooms. He could not put his fingers down
his throat without her hearing it. As soon as he came home of an
evening she listened, in spite of herself, to everything he did. His
black leather hat laid with a dull thud on the chest of drawers, like
a shovelful of earth; the black cloak hung up and rustling against the
walls like the wings of some night bird; all the black toggery flung
into the middle of the room and filling it with the trappings of
mourning. She heard him stamping about, felt anxious at the least
movement, and was quite startled if he knocked against the furniture
or rattled any of his crockery. This confounded drunkard was her
preoccupation, filling her with a secret fear mingled with a desire to
know. He, jolly, his belly full every day, his head all upside down,
coughed, spat, sang "Mother Godichon," made use of many dirty
expressions and fought with the four walls before finding his
bedstead. And she remained quite pale, wondering what he could be
doing in there. She imagined the most atrocious things. She got into
her head that he must have brought a corpse home, and was stowing it
away under his bedstead. Well! the newspapers had related something of
the kind--an undertaker's helper who collected the coffins of little
children at his home, so as to save himself trouble and to make only
one journey to the cemetery.

For certain, directly Bazouge arrived, a smell of death seemed to
permeate the partition. One might have thought oneself lodging against
the Pere Lachaise cemetery, in the midst of the kingdom of moles. He
was frightful, the animal, continually laughing all by himself, as
though his profession enlivened him. Even when he had finished his
rumpus and had laid himself on his back, he snored in a manner so
extraordinary that it caused the laundress to hold her breath. For
hours she listened attentively, with an idea that funerals were
passing through her neighbor's room.

The worst was that, in spite of her terrors, something incited
Gervaise to put her ear to the wall, the better to find out what was
taking place. Bazouge had the same effect on her as handsome men have
on good women: they would like to touch them. Well! if fear had not
kept her back, Gervaise would have liked to have handled death, to see
what it was like. She became so peculiar at times, holding her breath,
listening attentively, expecting to unravel the secret through one of
Bazouge's movements, that Coupeau would ask her with a chuckle if she
had a fancy for that gravedigger next door. She got angry and talked
of moving, the close proximity of this neighbor was so distasteful to
her; and yet, in spite of herself, as soon as the old chap arrived,
smelling like a cemetery, she became wrapped again in her reflections,
with the excited and timorous air of a wife thinking of passing a
knife through the marriage contract. Had he not twice offered to pack
her up and carry her off with him to some place where the enjoyment of
sleep is so great, that in a moment one forgets all one's
wretchedness? Perhaps it was really very pleasant. Little by little
the temptation to taste it became stronger. She would have liked to
have tried it for a fortnight or a month. Oh! to sleep a month,
especially in winter, the month when the rent became due, when the
troubles of life were killing her! But it was not possible--one must
sleep forever, if one commences to sleep for an hour; and the thought
of this froze her, her desire for death departed before the eternal
and stern friendship which the earth demanded.

However, one evening in January she knocked with both her fists
against the partition. She had passed a frightful week, hustled by
everyone, without a sou, and utterly discouraged. That evening she was
not at all well, she shivered with fever, and seemed to see flames
dancing about her. Then, instead of throwing herself out of the
window, as she had at one moment thought of doing, she set to knocking
and calling:

"Old Bazouge! Old Bazouge!"

The undertaker's helper was taking off his shoes and singing, "There
were three lovely girls." He had probably had a good day, for he
seemed even more maudlin than usual.

"Old Bazouge! Old Bazouge!" repeated Gervaise, raising her voice.

Did he not hear her then? She was ready to give herself at once; he
might come and take her on his neck, and carry her off to the place
where he carried his other women, the poor and the rich, whom he
consoled. It pained her to hear his song, "There were three lovely
girls," because she discerned in it the disdain of a man with too many
sweethearts.

"What is it? what is it?" stuttered Bazouge; "who's unwell? We're
coming, little woman!"

But the sound of this husky voice awoke Gervaise as though from a
nightmare. And a feeling of horror ascended from her knees to her
shoulders at the thought of seeing herself lugged along in the old
fellow's arms, all stiff and her face as white as a china plate.

"Well! is there no one there now?" resumed Bazouge in silence. "Wait a
bit, we're always ready to oblige the ladies."

"It's nothing, nothing," said the laundress at length in a choking
voice. "I don't require anything, thanks."

She remained anxious, listening to old Bazouge grumbling himself to
sleep, afraid to stir for fear he would think he heard her knocking
again.

In her corner of misery, in the midst of her cares and the cares of
others, Gervaise had, however, a beautiful example of courage in the
home of her neighbors, the Bijards. Little Lalie, only eight years old
and no larger than a sparrow, took care of the household as
competently as a grown person. The job was not an easy one because she
had two little tots, her brother Jules and her sister Henriette, aged
three and five, to watch all day long while sweeping and cleaning.

Ever since Bijard had killed his wife with a kick in the stomach,
Lalie had become the little mother of them all. Without saying a word,
and of her own accord, she filled the place of one who had gone, to
the extent that her brute of a father, no doubt to complete the
resemblance, now belabored the daughter as he had formerly belabored
the mother. Whenever he came home drunk, he required a woman to
massacre. He did not even notice that Lalie was quite little; he would
not have beaten some old trollop harder. Little Lalie, so thin it made
you cry, took it all without a word of complaint in her beautiful,
patient eyes. Never would she revolt. She bent her neck to protect her
face and stifled her sobs so as not to alarm the neighbors. When her
father got tired of kicking her, she would rest a bit until she got
her strength back and then resume her work. It was part of her job,
being beaten daily.

Gervaise entertained a great friendship for her little neighbor. She
treated her as an equal, as a grown-up woman of experience. It must be
said that Lalie had a pale and serious look, with the expression of an
old girl. One might have thought her thirty on hearing her speak. She
knew very well how to buy things, mend the clothes, attend to the
home, and she spoke of the children as though she had already gone
through two or thee nurseries in her time. It made people smile to
hear her talk thus at eight years old; and then a lump would rise in
their throats, and they would hurry away so as not to burst out
crying. Gervaise drew the child towards her as much as she could, gave
her all she could spare of food and old clothing. One day as she tried
one of Nana's old dresses on her, she almost choked with anger on
seeing her back covered with bruises, the skin off her elbow, which
was still bleeding, and all her innocent flesh martyred and sticking
to her bones. Well! Old Bazouge could get a box ready; she would not
last long at that rate! But the child had begged the laundress not to
say a word. She would not have her father bothered on her account. She
took his part, affirming that he would not have been so wicked if it
had not been for the drink. He was mad, he did not know what he did.
Oh! she forgave him, because one ought to forgive madmen everything.

From that time Gervaise watched and prepared to interfere directly she
heard Bijard coming up the stairs. But on most of the occasions she
only caught some whack for her trouble. When she entered their room in
the day-time, she often found Lalie tied to the foot of the iron
bedstead; it was an idea of the locksmith's, before going out, to tie
her legs and her body with some stout rope, without anyone being able
to find out why--a mere whim of a brain diseased by drink, just for
the sake, no doubt, of maintaining his tyranny over the child when he
was no longer there. Lalie, as stiff as a stake, with pins and needles
in her legs, remained whole days at the post. She once even passed a
night there, Bijard having forgotten to come home. Whenever Gervaise,
carried away by her indignation, talked of unfastening her, she
implored her not to disturb the rope, because her father became
furious if he did not find the knots tied the same way he had left
them. Really, it wasn't so bad, it gave her a rest. She smiled as she
said this though her legs were swollen and bruised. What upset her the
most was that she couldn't do her work while tied to the bed. She
could watch the children though, and even did some knitting, so as not
to entirely waste the time.

The locksmith had thought of another little game too. He heated sous
in the frying pan, then placed them on a corner of the mantle-piece;
and he called Lalie, and told her to fetch a couple of pounds of
bread. The child took up the sous unsuspectingly, uttered a cry and
threw them on the ground, shaking her burnt hand. Then he flew into a
fury. Who had saddled him with such a piece of carrion? She lost the
money now! And he threatened to beat her to a jelly if she did not
pick the sous up at once. When the child hesitated she received the
first warning, a clout of such force that it made her see thirty-six
candles. Speechless and with two big tears in the corners of her eyes,
she would pick up the sous and go off, tossing them in the palm of her
hand to cool them.

No, one could never imagine the ferocious ideas which may sprout from
the depths of a drunkard's brain. One afternoon, for instance, Lalie
having made everything tidy was playing with the children. The window
was open, there was a draught, and the wind blowing along the passage
gently shook the door.

"It's Monsieur Hardy," the child was saying. "Come in, Monsieur Hardy.
Pray have the kindness to walk in."

And she curtsied before the door, she bowed to the wind. Henriette and
Jules, behind her, also bowed, delighted with the game and splitting
their sides with laughing, as though being tickled. She was quite rosy
at seeing them so heartily amused and even found some pleasure in it
on her own account, which generally only happened to her on the
thirty-sixth day of each month.

"Good day, Monsieur Hardy. How do you do, Monsieur Hardy?"

But a rough hand pushed open the door, and Bijard entered. Then the
scene changed. Henriette and Jules fell down flat against the wall;
whilst Lalie, terrified, remained standing in the very middle of the
curtsey. The locksmith held in his hand a big waggoner's whip, quite
new, with a long white wooden handle, and a leather thong, terminating
with a bit of whip-cord. He placed the whip in the corner against the
bed and did not give the usual kick to the child who was already
preparing herself by presenting her back. A chuckle exposed his
blackened teeth and he was very lively, very drunk, his red face
lighted up by some idea that amused him immensely.

"What's that?" said he. "You're playing the deuce, eh, you confounded
young hussy! I could hear you dancing about from downstairs. Now then,
come here! Nearer and full face. I don't want to sniff you from
behind. Am I touching you that you tremble like a mass of giblets?
Take my shoes off."

Lalie turned quite pale again and, amazed at not receiving her usual
drubbing, took his shoes off. He had seated himself on the edge of the
bed. He lay down with his clothes on and remained with his eyes open,
watching the child move about the room. She busied herself with one
thing and another, gradually becoming bewildered beneath his glance,
her limbs overcome by such a fright that she ended by breaking a cup.
Then, without getting off the bed, he took hold of the whip and showed
it to her.

"See, little chickie, look at this. It's a present for you. Yes, it's
another fifty sous you've cost me. With this plaything I shall no
longer be obliged to run after you, and it'll be no use you getting
into the corners. Will you have a try? Ah! you broke a cup! Now then,
gee up! Dance away, make your curtsies to Monsieur Hardy!"

He did not even raise himself but lay sprawling on his back, his head
buried in his pillow, making the big whip crack about the room with
the noise of a postillion starting his horses. Then, lowering his arm
he lashed Lalie in the middle of the body, encircling her with the
whip and unwinding it again as though she were a top. She fell and
tried to escape on her hands and knees; but lashing her again he
jerked her to her feet.

"Gee up, gee up!" yelled he. "It's the donkey race! Eh, it'll be fine
of a cold morning in winter. I can lie snug without getting cold or
hurting my chilblains and catch the calves from a distance. In that
corner there, a hit, you hussy! And in that other corner, a hit again!
And in that one, another hit. Ah! if you crawl under the bed I'll
whack you with the handle. Gee up, you jade! Gee up! Gee up!"

A slight foam came to his lips, his yellow eyes were starting from
their black orbits. Lalie, maddened, howling, jumped to the four
corners of the room, curled herself up on the floor and clung to the
walls; but the lash at the end of the big whip caught her everywhere,
cracking against her ears with the noise of fireworks, streaking her
flesh with burning weals. A regular dance of the animal being taught
its tricks. This poor kitten waltzed. It was a sight! Her heels in the
air like little girls playing at skipping, and crying "Father!" She
was all out of breath, rebounding like an india-rubber ball, letting
herself be beaten, unable to see or any longer to seek a refuge. And
her wolf of a father triumphed, calling her a virago, asking her if
she had had enough and whether she understood sufficiently that she
was in future to give up all hope of escaping from him.

But Gervaise suddenly entered the room, attracted by the child's
howls. On beholding such a scene she was seized with a furious
indignation.

"Ah! you brute of a man!" cried she. "Leave her alone, you brigand!
I'll put the police on to you."

Bijard growled like an animal being disturbed, and stuttered:

"Mind your own business a bit, Limper. Perhaps you'd like me to put
gloves on when I stir her up. It's merely to warm her, as you can
plainly see--simply to show her that I've a long arm."

And he gave a final lash with the whip which caught Lalie across the
face. The upper lip was cut, the blood flowed. Gervaise had seized a
chair, and was about to fall on to the locksmith; but the child held
her hands towards her imploringly, saying that it was nothing and that
it was all over. She wiped away the blood with the corner of her apron
and quieted the babies, who were sobbing bitterly, as though they had
received all the blows.

Whenever Gervaise thought of Lalie, she felt she had no right to
complain for herself. She wished she had as much patient courage as
the little girl who was only eight years old and had to endure more
than the rest of the women on their staircase put together. She had
seen Lalie living on stale bread for months and growing thinner and
weaker. Whenever she smuggled some remnants of meat to Lalie, it
almost broke her heart to see the child weeping silently and nibbling
it down only by little bits because her throat was so shrunken.
Gervaise looked on Lalie as a model of suffering and forgiveness and
tried to learn from her how to suffer in silence.

In the Coupeau household the vitriol of l'Assommoir was also
commencing its ravages. Gervaise could see the day coming when her
husband would get a whip like Bijard's to make her dance.

Yes, Coupeau was spinning an evil thread. The time was past when a
drink would make him feel good. His unhealthy soft fat of earlier
years had melted away and he was beginning to wither and turn a leaden
grey. He seemed to have a greenish tint like a corpse putrefying in a
pond. He no longer had a taste for food, not even the most beautifully
prepared stew. His stomach would turn and his decayed teeth refuse to
touch it. A pint a day was his daily ration, the only nourishment he
could digest. When he awoke in the mornings he sat coughing and
spitting up bile for at least a quarter of an hour. It never failed,
you might as well have the basin ready. He was never steady on his
pins till after his first glass of consolation, a real remedy, the
fire of which cauterized his bowels; but during the day his strength
returned. At first he would feel a tickling sensation, a sort of pins-
and-needles in his hands and feet; and he would joke, relating that
someone was having a lark with him, that he was sure his wife put
horse-hair between the sheets. Then his legs would become heavy, the
tickling sensation would end by turning into the most abominable
cramps, which gripped his flesh as though in a vise. That though did
not amuse him so much. He no longer laughed; he stopped suddenly on
the pavement in a bewildered way with a ringing in his ears and his
eyes blinded with sparks. Everything appeared to him to be yellow; the
houses danced and he reeled about for three seconds with the fear of
suddenly finding himself sprawling on the ground. At other times,
while the sun was shining full on his back, he would shiver as though
iced water had been poured down his shoulders. What bothered him the
most was a slight trembling of both his hands; the right hand
especially must have been guilty of some crime, it suffered from so
many nightmares. /Mon Dieu!/ was he then no longer a man? He was
becoming an old woman! He furiously strained his muscles, he seized
hold of his glass and bet that he would hold it perfectly steady as
with a hand of marble; but in spite of his efforts the glass danced
about, jumped to the right, jumped to the left with a hurried and
regular trembling movement. Then in a fury he emptied it into his
gullet, yelling that he would require dozens like it, and afterwards
he undertook to carry a cask without so much as moving a finger.
Gervaise, on the other hand, told him to give up drink if he wished to
cease trembling, and he laughed at her, emptying quarts until he
experienced the sensation again, flying into a rage and accusing the
passing omnibuses of shaking up his liquor.

In the month of March Coupeau returned home one evening soaked
through. He had come with My-Boots from Montrouge, where they had
stuffed themselves full of eel soup, and he had received the full
force of the shower all the way from the Barriere des Fourneaux to the
Barriere Poissonniere, a good distance. During the night he was seized
with a confounded fit of coughing. He was very flushed, suffering from
a violent fever and panting like a broken bellows. When the Boches'
doctor saw him in the morning and listened against his back he shook
his head, and drew Gervaise aside to advise her to have her husband
taken to the hospital. Coupeau was suffering from pneumonia.

Gervaise did not worry herself, you may be sure. At one time she would
have been chopped into pieces before trusting her old man to the saw-
bones. After the accident in the Rue de la Nation she had spent their
savings in nursing him. But those beautiful sentiments don't last when
men take to wallowing in the mire. No, no; she did not intend to make
a fuss like that again. They might take him and never bring him back;
she would thank them heartily. Yet, when the litter arrived and
Coupeau was put into it like an article of furniture, she became all
pale and bit her lips; and if she grumbled and still said it was a
good job, her heart was no longer in her words. Had she but ten francs
in her drawer she would not have let him go.

She accompanied him to the Lariboisiere Hospital, saw the nurses put
him to bed at the end of a long hall, where the patients in a row,
looking like corpses, raised themselves up and followed with their
eyes the comrade who had just been brought in. It was a veritable
death chamber. There was a suffocating, feverish odor and a chorus of
coughing. The long hall gave the impression of a small cemetery with
its double row of white beds looking like an aisle of marble tombs.
When Coupeau remained motionless on his pillow, Gervaise left, having
nothing to say, nor anything in her pocket that could comfort him.

Outside, she turned to look up at the monumental structure of the
hospital and recalled the days when Coupeau was working there, putting
on the zinc roof, perched up high and singing in the sun. He wasn't
drinking in those days. She used to watch for him from her window in
the Hotel Boncoeur and they would both wave their handkerchiefs in
greeting. Now, instead of being on the roof like a cheerful sparrow,
he was down below. He had built his own place in the hospital where he
had come to die. /Mon Dieu!/ It all seemed so far way now, that time
of young love.

On the day after the morrow, when Gervaise called to obtain news of
him, she found the bed empty. A Sister of Charity told her that they
had been obliged to remove her husband to the Asylum of Sainte-Anne,
because the day before he had suddenly gone wild. Oh! a total leave-
taking of his senses; attempts to crack his skull against the wall;
howls which prevented the other patients from sleeping. It all came
from drink, it seemed. Gervaise went home very upset. Well, her
husband had gone crazy. What would it be like if he came home? Nana
insisted that they should leave him in the hospital because he might
end by killing both of them.

Gervaise was not able to go to Sainte-Anne until Sunday. It was a
tremendous journey. Fortunately, the omnibus from the Boulevard
Rochechouart to La Glaciere passed close to the asylum. She went down
the Rue de la Sante, buying two oranges on her way, so as not to
arrive empty-handed. It was another monumental building, with grey
courtyards, interminable corridors and a smell of rank medicaments,
which did not exactly inspire liveliness. But when they had admitted
her into a cell she was quite surprised to see Coupeau almost jolly.
He was just then seated on the throne, a spotlessly clean wooden case,
and they both laughed at her finding him in this position. Well, one
knows what an invalid is. He squatted there like a pope with his cheek
of earlier days. Oh! he was better, as he could do this.

"And the pneumonia?" inquired the laundress.

"Done for!" replied he. "They cured it in no time. I still cough a
little, but that's all that is left of it."

Then at the moment of leaving the throne to get back into his bed, he
joked once more. "It's lucky you have a strong nose and are not
bothered."

They laughed louder than ever. At heart they felt joyful. It was by
way of showing their contentment without a host of phrases that they
thus joked together. One must have had to do with patients to know the
pleasure one feels at seeing all their functions at work again.

When he was back in bed she gave him the two oranges and this filled
him with emotion. He was becoming quite nice again ever since he had
had nothing but tisane to drink. She ended by venturing to speak to
him about his violent attack, surprised at hearing him reason like in
the good old times.

"Ah, yes," said he, joking at his own expense; "I talked a precious
lot of nonsense! Just fancy, I saw rats and ran about on all fours to
put a grain of salt under their tails. And you, you called to me, men
were trying to kill you. In short, all sorts of stupid things, ghosts
in broad daylight. Oh! I remember it well, my noodle's still solid.
Now it's over, I dream a bit when I'm asleep. I have nightmares, but
everyone has nightmares."

Gervaise remained with him until the evening. When the house surgeon
came, at the six o'clock inspection, he made him spread his hands;
they hardly trembled at all, scarcely a quiver at the tips of the
fingers. However, as night approached, Coupeau was little by little
seized with uneasiness. He twice sat up in bed looking on the ground
and in the dark corners of the room. Suddenly he thrust out an arm and
appeared to crush some vermin against the wall.

"What is it?" asked Gervaise, frightened.

"The rats! The rats!" murmured he.

Then, after a pause, gliding into sleep, he tossed about, uttering
disconnected phrases.

"/Mon Dieu!/ they're tearing my skin!--Oh! the filthy beasts!--Keep
steady! Hold your skirts right round you! beware of the dirty bloke
behind you!--/Mon Dieu!/ she's down and the scoundrels laugh!--
Scoundrels! Blackguards! Brigands!"

He dealt blows into space, caught hold of his blanket and rolled it
into a bundle against his chest, as though to protect the latter from
the violence of the bearded men whom he beheld. Then, an attendant
having hastened to the spot, Gervaise withdrew, quite frozen by the
scene.

But when she returned a few days later, she found Coupeau completely
cured. Even the nightmares had left him; he could sleep his ten hours
right off as peacefully as a child and without stirring a limb. So his
wife was allowed to take him away. The house surgeon gave him the
usual good advice on leaving and advised him to follow it. If he
recommenced drinking, he would again collapse and would end by dying.
Yes, it solely depended upon himself. He had seen how jolly and
healthy one could become when one did not get drunk. Well, he must
continue at home the sensible life he had led at Sainte-Anne, fancy
himself under lock and key and that dram-shops no longer existed.

"The gentleman's right," said Gervaise in the omnibus which was taking
them back to the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or.

"Of course he's right," replied Coupeau.

Then, after thinking a minute, he resumed:

"Oh! you know, a little glass now and again can't kill a man; it helps
the digestion."

And that very evening he swallowed a glass of bad spirit, just to keep
his stomach in order. For eight days he was pretty reasonable. He was
a great coward at heart; he had no desire to end his days in the
Bicetre mad-house. But his passion got the better of him; the first
little glass led him, in spite of himself, to a second, to a third and
to a fourth, and at the end of a fortnight, he had got back to his old
ration, a pint of vitriol a day. Gervaise, exasperated, could have
beaten him. To think that she had been stupid enough to dream once
more of leading a worthy life, just because she had seen him at the
asylum in full possession of his good sense! Another joyful hour had
flown, the last one no doubt! Oh! now, as nothing could reclaim him,
not even the fear of his near death, she swore she would no longer put
herself out; the home might be all at sixes and sevens, she did not
care any longer; and she talked also of leaving him.

Then hell upon earth recommenced, a life sinking deeper into the mire,
without a glimmer of hope for something better to follow. Nana,
whenever her father clouted her, furiously asked why the brute was not
at the hospital. She was awaiting the time when she would be earning
money, she would say, to treat him to brandy and make him croak
quicker. Gervaise, on her side, flew into a passion one day that
Coupeau was regretting their marriage. Ah! she had brought him her
saucy children; ah! she had got herself picked up from the pavement,
wheedling him with rosy dreams! /Mon Dieu!/ he had a rare cheek! So
many words, so many lies. She hadn't wished to have anything to do
with him, that was the truth. He had dragged himself at her feet to
make her give way, whilst she was advising him to think well what he
was about. And if it was all to come over again, he would hear how she
would just say "no!" She would sooner have an arm cut off. Yes, she'd
had a lover before him; but a woman who has had a lover, and who is a
worker, is worth more than a sluggard of a man who sullies his honor
and that of his family in all the dram-shops. That day, for the first
time, the Coupeaus went in for a general brawl, and they whacked each
other so hard that an old umbrella and the broom were broken.

Gervaise kept her word. She sank lower and lower; she missed going to
her work oftener, spent whole days in gossiping, and became as soft as
a rag whenever she had a task to perform. If a thing fell from her
hands, it might remain on the floor; it was certainly not she who
would have stooped to pick it up. She took her ease about everything,
and never handled a broom except when the accumulation of filth almost
brought her to the ground. The Lorilleuxs now made a point of holding
something to their noses whenever they passed her room; the stench was
poisonous, said they. Those hypocrites slyly lived at the end of the
passage, out of the way of all these miseries which filled the corner
of the house with whimpering, locking themselves in so as not to have
to lend twenty sou pieces. Oh! kind-hearted folks, neighbors awfully
obliging! Yes, you may be sure! One had only to knock and ask for a
light or a pinch of salt or a jug of water, one was certain of getting
the door banged in one's face. With all that they had vipers' tongues.
They protested everywhere that they never occupied themselves with
other people. This was true whenever it was a question of assisting a
neighbor; but they did so from morning to night, directly they had a
chance of pulling any one to pieces. With the door bolted and a rug
hung up to cover the chinks and the key-hole, they would treat
themselves to a spiteful gossip without leaving their gold wire for a
moment.

The fall of Clump-clump in particular kept them purring like pet cats.
Completely ruined! Not a sou remaining. They smiled gleefully at the
small piece of bread she would bring back when she went shopping and
kept count of the days when she had nothing at all to eat. And the
clothes she wore now. Disgusting rags! That's what happened when one
tried to live high.

Gervaise, who had an idea of the way in which they spoke of her, would
take her shoes off, and place her ear against their door; but the rug
over the door prevented her from hearing much. She was heartily sick
of them; she continued to speak to them, to avoid remarks, though
expecting nothing but unpleasantness from such nasty persons, but no
longer having strength even to give them as much as they gave her,
passed the insults off as a lot of nonsense. And besides she only
wanted her own pleasure, to sit in a heap twirling her thumbs, and
only moving when it was a question of amusing herself, nothing more.

One Saturday Coupeau had promised to take her to the circus. It was
well worth while disturbing oneself to see ladies galloping along on
horses and jumping through paper hoops. Coupeau had just finished a
fortnight's work, he could well spare a couple of francs; and they had
also arranged to dine out, just the two of them, Nana having to work
very late that evening at her employer's because of some pressing
order. But at seven o'clock there was no Coupeau; at eight o'clock it
was still the same. Gervaise was furious. Her drunkard was certainly
squandering his earnings with his comrades at the dram-shops of the
neighborhood. She had washed a cap and had been slaving since the
morning over the holes of an old dress, wishing to look decent. At
last, towards nine o'clock, her stomach empty, her face purple with
rage, she decided to go down and look for Coupeau.

"Is it your husband you want?" called Madame Boche, on catching sight
of Gervaise looking very glum. "He's at Pere Colombe's. Boche has just
been having some cherry brandy with him."

Gervaise uttered her thanks and stalked stiffly along the pavement
with the determination of flying at Coupeau's eyes. A fine rain was
falling which made the walk more unpleasant still. But when she
reached l'Assommoir, the fear of receiving the drubbing herself if
she badgered her old man suddenly calmed her and made her prudent. The
shop was ablaze with the lighted gas, the flames of which were as
brilliant as suns, and the bottles and jars illuminated the walls with
their colored glass. She stood there an instant stretching her neck,
her eyes close to the window, looking between two bottle placed there
for show, watching Coupeau who was right at the back; he was sitting
with some comrades at a little zinc table, all looking vague and blue
in the tobacco smoke; and, as one could not hear them yelling, it
created a funny effect to see them gesticulating with their chins
thrust forward and their eyes starting out of their heads. Good
heavens! Was it really possible that men could leave their wives and
their homes to shut themselves up thus in a hole where they were
choking?

The rain trickled down her neck; she drew herself up and went off to
the exterior Boulevard, wrapped in thought and not daring to enter.
Ah! well Coupeau would have welcomed her in a pleasant way, he who
objected to be spied upon! Besides, it really scarcely seemed to her
the proper place for a respectable woman. Twice she went back and
stood before the shop window, her eyes again riveted to the glass,
annoyed at still beholding those confounded drunkards out of the rain
and yelling and drinking. The light of l'Assommoir was reflected in
the puddles on the pavement, which simmered with little bubbles caused
by the downpour. At length she thought she was too foolish, and
pushing open the door, she walked straight up to the table where
Coupeau was sitting. After all it was her husband she came for, was it
not? And she was authorized in doing so, because he had promised to
take her to the circus that evening. So much the worse! She had no
desire to melt like a cake of soap out on the pavement.

"Hullo! It's you, old woman!" exclaimed the zinc-worker, half choking
with a chuckle. "Ah! that's a good joke. Isn't it a good joke now?"

All the company laughed. Gervaise remained standing, feeling rather
bewildered. Coupeau appeared to her to be in a pleasant humor, so she
ventured to say:

"You remember, we've somewhere to go. We must hurry. We shall still be
in time to see something."

"I can't get up, I'm glued, oh! without joking," resumed Coupeau, who
continued laughing. "Try, just to satisfy yourself; pull my arm with
all your strength; try it! harder than that, tug away, up with it! You
see it's that louse Pere Colombe who's screwed me to his seat."

Gervaise had humored him at this game, and when she let go of his arm,
the comrades thought the joke so good that they tumbled up against one
another, braying and rubbing their shoulders like donkeys being
groomed. The zinc-worker's mouth was so wide with laughter that you
could see right down his throat.

"You great noodle!" said he at length, "you can surely sit down a
minute. You're better here than splashing about outside. Well, yes; I
didn't come home as I promised, I had business to attend to. Though
you may pull a long face, it won't alter matters. Make room, you
others."

"If madame would accept my knees she would find them softer than the
seat," gallantly said My-Boots.

Gervaise, not wishing to attract attention, took a chair and sat down
at a short distance from the table. She looked at what the men were
drinking, some rotgut brandy which shone like gold in the glasses; a
little of it had dropped upon the table and Salted-Mouth, otherwise
Drink-without-Thirst, dipped his finger in it whilst conversing and
wrote a woman's name--"Eulalie"--in big letters. She noticed that
Bibi-the-Smoker looked shockingly jaded and thinner than a hundred-
weight of nails. My-Boot's nose was in full bloom, a regular purple
Burgundy dahlia. They were all quite dirty, their beards stiff, their
smocks ragged and stained, their hands grimy with dirt. Yet they were
still quite polite.

Gervaise noticed a couple of men at the bar. They were so drunk that
they were spilling the drink down their chins when they thought they
were wetting their whistles. Fat Pere Colombe was calmly serving round
after round.

The atmosphere was very warm, the smoke from the pipes ascended in the
blinding glare of the gas, amidst which it rolled about like dust,
drowning the customers in a gradually thickening mist; and from this
cloud there issued a deafening and confused uproar, cracked voices,
clinking of glasses, oaths and blows sounding like detonations. So
Gervaise pulled a very wry face, for such a sight is not funny for a
woman, especially when she is not used to it; she was stifling, with a
smarting sensation in her eyes, and her head already feeling heavy
from the alcoholic fumes exhaled by the whole place. Then she suddenly
experienced the sensation of something more unpleasant still behind
her back. She turned round and beheld the still, the machine which
manufactured drunkards, working away beneath the glass roof of the
narrow courtyard with the profound trepidation of its hellish cookery.
Of an evening, the copper parts looked more mournful than ever, lit up
only on their rounded surface with one big red glint; and the shadow
of the apparatus on the wall at the back formed most abominable
figures, bodies with tails, monsters opening their jaws as though to
swallow everyone up.

"Listen, mother Talk-too-much, don't make any of your grimaces!" cried
Coupeau. "To blazes, you know, with all wet blankets! What'll you
drink?"

"Nothing, of course," replied the laundress. "I haven't dined yet."

"Well! that's all the more reason for having a glass; a drop of
something sustains one."

But, as she still retained her glum expression, My-Boots again did the
gallant.

"Madame probably likes sweet things," murmured he.

"I like men who don't get drunk," retorted she, getting angry. "Yes, I
like a fellow who brings home his earnings, and who keeps his word
when he makes a promise."

"Ah! so that's what upsets you?" said the zinc-worker, without ceasing
to chuckle. "Yes, you want your share. Then, big goose, why do you
refuse a drink? Take it, it's so much to the good."

She looked at him fixedly, in a grave manner, a wrinkle marking her
forehead with a black line. And she slowly replied:

"Why, you're right, it's a good idea. That way, we can drink up the
coin together."

Bibi-the-Smoker rose from his seat to fetch her a glass of anisette.
She drew her chair up to the table. Whilst she was sipping her
anisette, a recollection suddenly flashed across her mind, she
remembered the plum she had taken with Coupeau, near the door, in the
old days, when he was courting her. At that time, she used to leave
the juice of fruits preserved in brandy. And now, here was she going
back to liqueurs. Oh! she knew herself well, she had not two
thimblefuls of will. One would only have had to have given her a
walloping across the back to have made her regularly wallow in drink.
The anisette even seemed to be very good, perhaps rather too sweet and
slightly sickening. She went on sipping as she listened to Salted-
Mouth, otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, tell of his affair with fat
Eulalie, a fish peddler and very shrewd at locating him. Even if his
comrades tried to hide him, she could usually sniff him out when he
was late. Just the night before she had slapped his face with a
flounder to teach him not to neglect going to work. Bibi-the-Smoker
and My-Boots nearly split their sides laughing. They slapped Gervaise
on the shoulder and she began to laugh also, finding it amusing in
spite of herself. They then advised her to follow Eulalie's example
and bring an iron with her so as to press Coupeau's ears on the
counters of the wineshops.

"Ah, well, no thanks," cried Coupeau as he turned upside down the
glass his wife had emptied. "You pump it out pretty well. Just look,
you fellows, she doesn't take long over it."

"Will madame take another?" asked Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-
without-Thirst.

No, she had had enough. Yet she hesitated. The anisette had slightly
bothered her stomach. She should have taken straight brandy to settle
her digestion.

She cast side glances at the drunkard manufacturing machine behind
her. That confounded pot, as round as the stomach of a tinker's fat
wife, with its nose that was so long and twisted, sent a shiver down
her back, a fear mingled with a desire. Yes, one might have thought it
the metal pluck of some big wicked woman, of some witch who was
discharging drop by drop the fire of her entrails. A fine source of
poison, an operation which should have been hidden away in a cellar,
it was so brazen and abominable! But all the same she would have liked
to have poked her nose inside it, to have sniffed the odor, have
tasted the filth, though the skin might have peeled off her burnt
tongue like the rind off an orange.

"What's that you're drinking?" asked she slyly of the men, her eyes
lighted up by the beautiful golden color of their glasses.

"That, old woman," answered Coupeau, "is Pere Colombe's camphor. Don't
be silly now and we'll give you a taste."

And when they had brought her a glass of the vitriol, the rotgut, and
her jaws had contracted at the first mouthful, the zinc-worker
resumed, slapping his thighs:

"Ha! It tickles your gullet! Drink it off at one go. Each glassful
cheats the doctor of six francs."

At the second glass Gervaise no longer felt the hunger which had been
tormenting her. Now she had made it up with Coupeau, she no longer
felt angry with him for not having kept his word. They would go to the
circus some other day; it was not so funny to see jugglers galloping
about on houses. There was no rain inside Pere Colombe's and if the
money went in brandy, one at least had it in one's body; one drank it
bright and shining like beautiful liquid gold. Ah! she was ready to
send the whole world to blazes! Life was not so pleasant after all,
besides it seemed some consolation to her to have her share in
squandering the cash. As she was comfortable, why should she not
remain? One might have a discharge of artillery; she did not care to
budge once she had settled in a heap. She nursed herself in a pleasant
warmth, her bodice sticking to her back, overcome by a feeling of
comfort which benumbed her limbs. She laughed all to herself, her
elbows on the table, a vacant look in her eyes, highly amused by two
customers, a fat heavy fellow and a tiny shrimp, seated at a
neighboring table, and kissing each other lovingly. Yes, she laughed
at the things to see in l'Assommoir, at Pere Colombe's full moon
face, a regular bladder of lard, at the customers smoking their short
clay pipes, yelling and spitting, and at the big flames of gas which
lighted up the looking-glasses and the bottles of liqueurs. The smell
no longer bothered her, on the contrary it tickled her nose, and she
thought it very pleasant. Her eyes slightly closed, whilst she
breathed very slowly, without the least feeling of suffocation,
tasting the enjoyment of the gentle slumber which was overcoming her.
Then, after her third glass, she let her chin fall on her hands; she
now only saw Coupeau and his comrades, and she remained nose to nose
with them, quite close, her cheeks warmed by their breath, looking at
their dirty beards as though she had been counting the hairs. My-Boots
drooled, his pipe between his teeth, with the dumb and grave air of a
dozing ox. Bibi-the-Smoker was telling a story--the manner in which he
emptied a bottle at a draught, giving it such a kiss that one
instantly saw its bottom. Meanwhile Salted-Mouth, otherwise Drink-
without-Thirst, had gone and fetched the wheel of fortune from the
counter, and was playing with Coupeau for drinks.

"Two hundred! You're lucky; you get high numbers every time!"

The needle of the wheel grated, and the figure of Fortune, a big red
woman placed under glass, turned round and round until it looked like
a mere spot in the centre, similar to a wine stain.

"Three hundred and fifty! You must have been inside it, you confounded
lascar! Ah! I shan't play any more!"

Gervaise amused herself with the wheel of fortune. She was feeling
awfully thirsty, and calling My-Boots "my child." Behind her the
machine for manufacturing drunkards continued working, with its murmur
of an underground stream; and she despaired of ever stopping it, of
exhausting it, filled with a sullen anger against it, feeling a
longing to spring upon the big still as upon some animal, to kick it
with her heels and stave in its belly. Then everything began to seem
all mixed up. The machine seemed to be moving itself and she thought
she was being grabbed by its copper claws, and that the underground
stream was now flowing over her body.

Then the room danced round, the gas-jets seemed to shoot like stars.
Gervaise was drunk. She heard a furious wrangle between Salted-Mouth,
otherwise Drink-without-Thirst, and that rascal Pere Colombe. There
was a thief of a landlord who wanted one to pay for what one had not
had! Yet one was not at a gangster's hang-out. Suddenly there was a
scuffling, yells were heard and tables were upset. It was Pere Colombe
who was turning the party out without the least hesitation, and in the
twinkling of an eye. On the other side of the door they blackguarded
him and called him a scoundrel. It still rained and blew icy cold.
Gervaise lost Coupeau, found him and then lost him again. She wished
to go home; she felt the shops to find her way. This sudden darkness
surprised her immensely. At the corner of the Rue des Poissonniers,
she sat down in the gutter thinking she was at the wash-house. The
water which flowed along caused her head to swim, and made her very
ill. At length she arrived, she passed stiffly before the concierge's
room where she perfectly recognized the Lorilleuxs and the Poissons
seated at the table having dinner, and who made grimaces of disgust on
beholding her in that sorry state.

She never remembered how she had got up all those flights of stairs.
Just as she was turning into the passage at the top, little Lalie, who
heard her footsteps, hastened to meet her, opening her arms
caressingly, and saying, with a smile:

"Madame Gervaise, papa has not returned. Just come and see my little
children sleeping. Oh! they look so pretty!"

But on beholding the laundress' besotted face, she tremblingly drew
back. She was acquainted with that brandy-laden breath, those pale
eyes, that convulsed mouth. Then Gervaise stumbled past without
uttering a word, whilst the child, standing on the threshold of her
room, followed her with her dark eyes, grave and speechless.



                              CHAPTER XI

Nana was growing up and becoming wayward. At fifteen years old she had
expanded like a calf, white-skinned and very fat; so plump, indeed,
you might have called her a pincushion. Yes, such she was--fifteen
years old, full of figure and no stays. A saucy magpie face, dipped in
milk, a skin as soft as a peach skin, a funny nose, pink lips and eyes
sparkling like tapers, which men would have liked to light their pipes
at. Her pile of fair hair, the color of fresh oats, seemed to have
scattered gold dust over her temples, freckle-like as it were, giving
her brow a sunny crown. Ah! a pretty doll, as the Lorilleuxs say, a
dirty nose that needed wiping, with fat shoulders, which were as fully
rounded and as powerful as those of a full-grown woman. Nana no longer
needed to stuff wads of paper into her bodice, her breasts were grown.
She wished they were larger though, and dreamed of having breasts like
a wet-nurse.

What made her particularly tempting was a nasty habit she had of
protruding the tip of her tongue between her white teeth. No doubt on
seeing herself in the looking-glasses she had thought she was pretty
like this; and so, all day long, she poked her tongue out of her
mouth, in view of improving her appearance.

"Hide your lying tongue!" cried her mother.

Coupeau would often get involved, pounding his fist, swearing and
shouting:

"Make haste and draw that red rag inside again!"

Nana showed herself very coquettish. She did not always wash her feet,
but she bought such tight boots that she suffered martyrdom in St.
Crispin's prison; and if folks questioned her when she turned purple
with pain, she answered that she had the stomach ache, so as to avoid
confessing her coquetry. When bread was lacking at home it was
difficult for her to trick herself out. But she accomplished miracles,
brought ribbons back from the workshop and concocted toilettes--dirty
dresses set off with bows and puffs. The summer was the season of her
greatest triumphs. With a cambric dress which had cost her six francs
she filled the whole neighborhood of the Goutte-d'Or with her fair
beauty. Yes, she was known from the outer Boulevards to the
Fortifications, and from the Chaussee de Clignancourt to the Grand Rue
of La Chapelle. Folks called her "chickie," for she was really as
tender and as fresh-looking as a chicken.

There was one dress which suited her perfectly, a white one with pink
dots. It was very simple and without a frill. The skirt was rather
short and revealed her ankles. The sleeves were deeply slashed and
loose, showing her arms to the elbow. She pinned the neck back into a
wide V as soon as she reached a dark corner of the staircase to avoid
getting her ears boxed by her father for exposing the snowy whiteness
of her throat and the golden shadow between her breasts. She also tied
a pink ribbon round her blond hair.

Sundays she spent the entire day out with the crowds and loved it when
the men eyed her hungrily as they passed. She waited all week long for
these glances. She would get up early to dress herself and spend hours
before the fragment of mirror that was hung over the bureau. Her
mother would scold her because the entire building could see her
through the window in her chemise as she mended her dress.

Ah! she looked cute like that said father Coupeau, sneering and
jeering at her, a real Magdalene in despair! She might have turned
"savage woman" at a fair, and have shown herself for a penny. Hide
your meat, he used to say, and let me eat my bread! In fact, she was
adorable, white and dainty under her overhanging golden fleece, losing
temper to the point that her skin turned pink, not daring to answer
her father, but cutting her thread with her teeth with a hasty,
furious jerk, which shook her plump but youthful form.

Then immediately after breakfast she tripped down the stairs into the
courtyard. The entire tenement seemed to be resting sleepily in the
peacefulness of a Sunday afternoon. The workshops on the ground floor
were closed. Gaping windows revealed tables in some apartments that
were already set for dinner, awaiting families out working up an
appetite by strolling along the fortifications.

Then, in the midst of the empty, echoing courtyard, Nana, Pauline and
other big girls engaged in games of battledore and shuttlecock. They
had grown up together and were now becoming queens of their building.
Whenever a man crossed the court, flutelike laugher would arise, and
then starched skirts would rustle like the passing of a gust of wind.

The games were only an excuse for them to make their escape. Suddenly
stillness fell upon the tenement. The girls had glided out into the
street and made for the outer Boulevards. Then, linked arm-in-arm
across the full breadth of the pavement, they went off, the whole six
of them, clad in light colors, with ribbons tied around their bare
heads. With bright eyes darting stealthy glances through their
partially closed eyelids, they took note of everything, and constantly
threw back their necks to laugh, displaying the fleshy part of their
chins. They would swing their hips, or group together tightly, or
flaunt along with awkward grace, all for the purpose of calling
attention to the fact that their forms were filling out.

Nana was in the centre with her pink dress all aglow in the sunlight.
She gave her arm to Pauline, whose costume, yellow flowers on a white
ground, glared in similar fashion, dotted as it were with little
flames. As they were the tallest of the band, the most woman-like and
most unblushing, they led the troop and drew themselves up with
breasts well forward whenever they detected glances or heard
complimentary remarks. The others extended right and left, puffing
themselves out in order to attract attention. Nana and Pauline
resorted to the complicated devices of experienced coquettes. If they
ran till they were out of breath, it was in view of showing their
white stockings and making the ribbons of their chignons wave in the
breeze. When they stopped, pretending complete breathlessness, you
would certainly spot someone they knew quite near, one of the young
fellows of the neighborhood. This would make them dawdle along
languidly, whispering and laughing among themselves, but keeping a
sharp watch through their downcast eyelids.

They went on these strolls of a Sunday mainly for the sake of these
chance meetings. Tall lads, wearing their Sunday best, would stop
them, joking and trying to catch them round their waists. Pauline was
forever running into one of Madame Gaudron's sons, a seventeen-year-
old carpenter, who would treat her to fried potatoes. Nana could spot
Victor Fauconnier, the laundress's son and they would exchange kisses
in dark corners. It never went farther than that, but they told each
other some tall tales.

Then when the sun set, the great delight of these young hussies was to
stop and look at the mountebanks. Conjurors and strong men turned up
and spread threadbare carpets on the soil of the avenue. Loungers
collected and a circle formed whilst the mountebank in the centre
tried his muscles under his faded tights. Nana and Pauline would stand
for hours in the thickest part of the crowd. Their pretty, fresh
frocks would get crushed between great-coats and dirty work smocks. In
this atmosphere of wine and sweat they would laugh gaily, finding
amusement in everything, blooming naturally like roses growing out of
a dunghill. The only thing that vexed them was to meet their fathers,
especially when the hatter had been drinking. So they watched and
warned one another.

"Look, Nana," Pauline would suddenly cry out, "here comes father
Coupeau!"

"Well, he's drunk too. Oh, dear," said Nana, greatly bothered. "I'm
going to beat it, you know. I don't want him to give me a wallop.
Hullo! How he stumbles! Good Lord, if he could only break his neck!"

At other times, when Coupeau came straight up to her without giving
her time to run off, she crouched down, made herself small and
muttered: "Just you hide me, you others. He's looking for me, and he
promised he'd knock my head off if he caught me hanging about."

Then when the drunkard had passed them she drew herself up again, and
all the others followed her with bursts of laughter. He'll find her--
he will--he won't! It was a true game of hide and seek. One day,
however, Boche had come after Pauline and caught her by both ears, and
Coupeau had driven Nana home with kicks.

Nana was now a flower-maker and earned forty sous a day at
Titreville's place in the Rue du Caire, where she had served as
apprentice. The Coupeaus had kept her there so that she might remain
under the eye of Madame Lerat, who had been forewoman in the workroom
for ten years. Of a morning, when her mother looked at the cuckoo
clock, off she went by herself, looking very pretty with her shoulders
tightly confined in her old black dress, which was both too narrow and
too short; and Madame Lerat had to note the hour of her arrival and
tell it to Gervaise. She was allowed twenty minutes to go from the Rue
de la Goutte-d'Or to the Rue du Caire, and it was enough, for these
young hussies have the legs of racehorses. Sometimes she arrived
exactly on time but so breathless and flushed that she must have
covered most of the distance at a run after dawdling along the way.
More often she was a few minutes late. Then she would fawn on her aunt
all day, hoping to soften her and keep her from telling. Madame Lerat
understood what it was to be young and would lie to the Coupeaus, but
she also lectured Nana, stressing the dangers a young girl runs on the
streets of Paris. /Mon Dieu!/ she herself was followed often enough!

"Oh! I watch, you needn't fear," said the widow to the Coupeaus. "I
will answer to you for her as I would for myself. And rather than let
a blackguard squeeze her, why I'd step between them."

The workroom at Titreville's was a large apartment on the first floor,
with a broad work-table standing on trestles in the centre. Round the
four walls, the plaster of which was visible in parts where the dirty
yellowish-grey paper was torn away, there were several stands covered
with old cardboard boxes, parcels and discarded patterns under a thick
coating of dust. The gas had left what appeared to be like a daub of
soot on the ceiling. The two windows opened so wide that without
leaving the work-table the girls could see the people walking past on
the pavement over the way.

Madame Lerat arrived the first, in view of setting an example. Then
for a quarter of an hour the door swayed to and fro, and all the
workgirls scrambled in, perspiring with tumbled hair. One July morning
Nana arrived the last, as very often happened. "Ah, me!" she said, "it
won't be a pity when I have a carriage of my own." And without even
taking off her hat, one which she was weary of patching up, she
approached the window and leant out, looking to the right and the left
to see what was going on in the street.

"What are you looking at?" asked Madame Lerat, suspiciously. "Did your
father come with you?"

"No, you may be sure of that," answered Nana coolly. "I'm looking at
nothing--I'm seeing how hot it is. It's enough to make anyone, having
to run like that."

It was a stifling hot morning. The workgirls had drawn down the
Venetian blinds, between which they could spy out into the street; and
they had at last begun working on either side of the table, at the
upper end of which sat Madame Lerat. They were eight in number, each
with her pot of glue, pincers, tools and curling stand in front of
her. On the work-table lay a mass of wire, reels, cotton wool, green
and brown paper, leaves and petals cut out of silk, satin or velvet.
In the centre, in the neck of a large decanter, one flower-girl had
thrust a little penny nosegay which had been fading on her breast
since the day before.

"Oh, I have some news," said a pretty brunette named Leonie as she
leaned over her cushion to crimp some rose petals. "Poor Caroline is
very unhappy about that fellow who used to wait for her every
evening."

"Ah!" said Nana, who was cutting thin strips of green paper. "A man
who cheats on her every day!"

Madame Lerat had to display severity over the muffled laughter. Then
Leonie whispered suddenly:

"Quiet. The boss!"

It was indeed Madame Titreville who entered. The tall thin woman
usually stayed down in the shop. The girls were quite in awe of her
because she never joked with them. All the heads were now bent over
the work in diligent silence. Madame Titreville slowly circled the
work-table. She told one girl her work was sloppy and made her do the
flower over. Then she stalked out as stiffly as she had come in.

The complaining and low laughter began again.

"Really, young ladies!" said Madame Lerat, trying to look more severe
than ever. "You will force me to take measures."

The workgirls paid no attention to her. They were not afraid of her.
She was too easy-going because she enjoyed being surrounded by these
young girls whose zest for life sparkled in their eyes. She enjoyed
taking them aside to hear their confidences about their lovers. She
even told their fortunes with cards whenever a corner of the work-
table was free. She was only offended by coarse expressions. As long
as you avoided those you could say what you pleased.

To tell the truth, Nana perfected her education in nice style in the
workroom! No doubt she was already inclined to go wrong. But this was
the finishing stroke--associating with a lot of girls who were already
worn out with misery and vice. They all hobnobbed and rotted together,
just the story of the baskets of apples when there are rotten ones
among them. They maintained a certain propriety in public, but the
smut flowed freely when they got to whispering together in a corner.

For inexperienced girls like Nana, there was an undesirable atmosphere
around the workshop, an air of cheap dance halls and unorthodox
evenings brought in by some of the girls. The laziness of mornings
after a gay night, the shadows under the eyes, the lounging, the
hoarse voices, all spread an odor of dark perversion over the work-
table which contrasted sharply with the brilliant fragility of the
artificial flowers. Nana eagerly drank it all in and was dizzy with
joy when she found herself beside a girl who had been around. She
always wanted to sit next to big Lisa, who was said to be pregnant,
and she kept glancing curiously at her neighbor as though expecting
her to swell up suddenly.

"It's hot enough to make one stifle," Nana said, approaching a window
as if to draw the blind farther down; but she leant forward and again
looked out both to the right and left.

At the same moment Leonie, who was watching a man stationed at the
foot of the pavement over the way, exclaimed, "What's that old fellow
about? He's been spying here for the last quarter of an hour."

"Some tom cat," said Madame Lerat. "Nana, just come and sit down! I
told you not to stand at the window."

Nana took up the stems of some violets she was rolling, and the whole
workroom turned its attention to the man in question. He was a well-
dressed individual wearing a frock coat and he looked about fifty
years old. He had a pale face, very serous and dignified in
expression, framed round with a well trimmed grey beard. He remained
for an hour in front of a herbalist's shop with his eyes fixed on the
Venetian blinds of the workroom. The flower-girls indulged in little
bursts of laughter which died away amid the noise of the street, and
while leaning forward, to all appearance busy with their work, they
glanced askance so as not to lose sight of the gentleman.

"Ah!" remarked Leonie, "he wears glasses. He's a swell. He's waiting
for Augustine, no doubt."

But Augustine, a tall, ugly, fair-haired girl, sourly answered that
she did not like old men; whereupon Madame Lerat, jerking her head,
answered with a smile full of underhand meaning:

"That is a great mistake on your part, my dear; the old ones are more
affectionate."

At this moment Leonie's neighbor, a plump little body, whispered
something in her ear and Leonie suddenly threw herself back on her
chair, seized with a fit of noisy laughter, wriggling, looking at the
gentleman and then laughing all the louder. "That's it. Oh! that's
it," she stammered. "How dirty that Sophie is!"

"What did she say? What did she say?" asked the whole workroom, aglow
with curiosity.

Leonie wiped the tears from her eyes without answering. When she
became somewhat calmer, she began curling her flowers again and
declared, "It can't be repeated."

The others insisted, but she shook her head, seized again with a gust
of gaiety. Thereupon Augustine, her left-hand neighbor, besought her
to whisper it to her; and finally Leonie consented to do so with her
lips close to Augustine's ear. Augustine threw herself back and
wriggled with convulsive laughter in her turn. Then she repeated the
phrase to a girl next to her, and from ear to ear it traveled round
the room amid exclamations and stifled laughter. When they were all of
them acquainted with Sophie's disgusting remark they looked at one
another and burst out laughing together although a little flushed and
confused. Madame Lerat alone was not in the secret and she felt
extremely vexed.

"That's very impolite behavior on your part, young ladies," said she.
"It is not right to whisper when other people are present. Something
indecent no doubt! Ah! that's becoming!"

She did not dare go so far as to ask them to pass Sophie's remark on
to her although she burned to hear it. So she kept her eyes on her
work, amusing herself by listening to the conversation. Now no one
could make even an innocent remark without the others twisting it
around and connecting it with the gentleman on the sidewalk. Madame
Lerat herself once sent them into convulsions of laughter when she
said, "Mademoiselle Lisa, my fire's gone out. Pass me yours."

"Oh! Madame Lerat's fire's out!" laughed the whole shop.

They refused to listen to any explanation, but maintained they were
going to call in the gentleman outside to rekindle Madame Lerat's
fire.

However, the gentleman over the way had gone off. The room grew calmer
and the work was carried on in the sultry heat. When twelve o'clock
struck--meal-time--they all shook themselves. Nana, who had hastened
to the window again, volunteered to do the errands if they liked. And
Leonie ordered two sous worth of shrimps, Augustine a screw of fried
potatoes, Lisa a bunch of radishes, Sophie a sausage. Then as Nana was
doing down the stairs, Madame Lerat, who found her partiality for the
window that morning rather curious, overtook her with her long legs.

"Wait a bit," said she. "I'll go with you. I want to buy something
too."

But in the passage below she perceived the gentleman, stuck there like
a candle and exchanging glances with Nana. The girl flushed very red,
whereupon her aunt at once caught her by the arm and made her trot
over the pavement, whilst the individual followed behind. Ah! so the
tom cat had come for Nana. Well, that /was/ nice! At fifteen years and
a half to have men trailing after her! Then Madame Lerat hastily began
to question her. /Mon Dieu!/ Nana didn't know; he had only been
following her for five days, but she could not poke her nose out of
doors without stumbling on men. She believed he was in business; yes,
a manufacturer of bone buttons. Madame Lerat was greatly impressed.
She turned round and glanced at the gentleman out of the corner of her
eye.

"One can see he's got a deep purse," she muttered. "Listen to me,
kitten; you must tell me everything. You have nothing more to fear
now."

Whilst speaking they hastened from shop to shop--to the pork
butcher's, the fruiterer's, the cook-shop; and the errands in greasy
paper were piled up in their hands. Still they remained amiable,
flouncing along and casting bright glances behind them with gusts of
gay laughter. Madame Lerat herself was acting the young girl, on
account of the button manufacturer who was still following them.

"He is very distinguished looking," she declared as they returned into
the passage. "If he only has honorable views--"

Then, as they were going up the stairs she suddenly seemed to remember
something. "By the way, tell me what the girls were whispering to each
other--you know, what Sophie said?"

Nana did not make any ceremony. Only she caught Madame Lerat by the
hand, and caused her to descend a couple of steps, for, really, it
wouldn't do to say it aloud, not even on the stairs. When she
whispered it to her, it was so obscene that Madame Lerat could only
shake her head, opening her eyes wide, and pursing her lips. Well, at
least her curiosity wasn't troubling her any longer.

From that day forth Madame Lerat regaled herself with her niece's
first love adventure. She no longer left her, but accompanied her
morning and evening, bringing her responsibility well to the fore.
This somewhat annoyed Nana, but all the same she expanded with pride
at seeing herself guarded like a treasure; and the talk she and her
aunt indulged in in the street with the button manufacturer behind
them flattered her, and rather quickened her desire for new
flirtations. Oh! her aunt understood the feelings of the heart; she
even compassionated the button manufacturer, this elderly gentleman,
who looked so respectable, for, after all, sentimental feelings are
more deeply rooted among people of a certain age. Still she watched.
And, yes, he would have to pass over her body before stealing her
niece.

One evening she approached the gentleman, and told him, as straight as
a bullet, that his conduct was most improper. He bowed to her politely
without answering, like an old satyr who was accustomed to hear
parents tell him to go about his business. She really could not be
cross with him, he was too well mannered.

Then came lectures on love, allusions to dirty blackguards of men, and
all sorts of stories about hussies who had repented of flirtations,
which left Nana in a state of pouting, with eyes gleaming brightly in
her pale face.

One day, however, in the Rue du Faubourg-Poissonniere the button
manufacturer ventured to poke his nose between the aunt and the niece
to whisper some things which ought not to have been said. Thereupon
Madame Lerat was so frightened that she declared she no longer felt
able to handle the matter and she told the whole business to her
brother. Then came another row. There were some pretty rumpuses in the
Coupeaus' room. To begin with, the zinc-worker gave Nana a hiding.
What was that he learnt? The hussy was flirting with old men. All
right. Only let her be caught philandering out of doors again, she'd
be done for; he, her father, would cut off her head in a jiffy. Had
the like ever been seen before! A dirty nose who thought of beggaring
her family! Thereupon he shook her, declaring in God's name that she'd
have to walk straight, for he'd watch her himself in future. He now
looked her over every night when she came in, even going so far as to
sniff at her and make her turn round before him.

One evening she got another hiding because he discovered a mark on her
neck that he maintained was the mark of a kiss. Nana insisted it was a
bruise that Leonie had given her when they were having a bit of a
rough-house. Yet at other times her father would tease her, saying she
was certainly a choice morsel for men. Nana began to display the
sullen submissiveness of a trapped animal. She was raging inside.

"Why don't you leave her alone?" repeated Gervaise, who was more
reasonable. "You will end by making her wish to do it by talking to
her about it so much."

Ah! yes, indeed, she did wish to do it. She itched all over, longing
to break loose and gad all the time, as father Coupeau said. He
insisted so much on the subject that even an honest girl would have
fired up. Even when he was abusing her, he taught her a few things she
did not know as yet, which, to say the least was astonishing. Then,
little by little she acquired some singular habits. One morning he
noticed her rummaging in a paper bag and rubbing something on her
face. It was rice powder, which she plastered on her delicate satin-
like skin with perverse taste. He caught up the paper bag and rubbed
it over her face violently enough to graze her skin and called her a
miller's daughter. On another occasion she brought some ribbon home,
to do up her old black hat which she was so ashamed of. He asked her
in a furious voice where she had got those ribbons from. Had she
earned them by lying on her back or had she bagged them somewhere? A
hussy or a thief, and perhaps both by now?

More than once he found her with some pretty little doodad. She had
found a little interlaced heart in the street on Rue d'Aboukir. Her
father crushed the heart under his foot, driving her to the verge of
throwing herself at him to ruin something of his. For two years she
had been longing for one of those hearts, and now he had smashed it!
This was too much, she was reaching the end of the line with him.

Coupeau was often in the wrong in the manner in which he tried to rule
Nana. His injustice exasperated her. She at last left off attending
the workshop and when the zinc-worker gave her a hiding, she declared
she would not return to Titreville's again, for she was always placed
next to Augustine, who must have swallowed her feet to have such a
foul breath. Then Coupeau took her himself to the Rue du Caire and
requested the mistress of the establishment to place her always next
to Augustine, by way of punishment. Every morning for a fortnight he
took the trouble to come down from the Barriere Poissonniere to escort
Nana to the door of the flower shop. And he remained for five minutes
on the footway, to make sure that she had gone in. But one morning
while he was drinking a glass with a friend in a wineshop in the Rue
Saint-Denis, he perceived the hussy darting down the street. For a
fortnight she had been deceiving him; instead of going into the
workroom, she climbed a story higher, and sat down on the stairs,
waiting till he had gone off. When Coupeau began casting the blame on
Madame Lerat, the latter flatly replied that she would not accept it.
She had told her niece all she ought to tell her, to keep her on her
guard against men, and it was not her fault if the girl still had a
liking for the nasty beasts. Now, she washed her hands of the whole
business; she swore she would not mix up in it, for she knew what she
knew about scandalmongers in her own family, yes, certain persons who
had the nerve to accuse her of going astray with Nana and finding an
indecent pleasure in watching her take her first misstep. Then Coupeau
found out from the proprietress that Nana was being corrupted by that
little floozie Leonie, who had given up flower-making to go on the
street. Nana was being tempted by the jingle of cash and the lure of
adventure on the streets.

In the tenement in the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or, Nana's old fellow was
talked about as a gentleman everyone was acquainted with. Oh! he
remained very polite, even a little timid, but awfully obstinate and
patient, following her ten paces behind like an obedient poodle.
Sometimes, indeed, he ventured into the courtyard. One evening, Madame
Gaudron met him on the second floor landing, and he glided down
alongside the balusters with his nose lowered and looking as if on
fire, but frightened. The Lorilleuxs threatened to move out if that
wayward niece of theirs brought men trailing in after her. It was
disgusting. The staircase was full of them. The Boches said that they
felt sympathy for the old gentleman because he had fallen for a tramp.
He was really a respectable businessman, they had seen his button
factory on the Boulevard de la Villette. He would be an excellent
catch for a decent girl.

For the first month Nana was greatly amused with her old flirt. You
should have seen him always dogging her--a perfect great nuisance, who
followed far behind, in the crowd, without seeming to do so. And his
legs! Regular lucifers. No more moss on his pate, only four straight
hairs falling on his neck, so that she was always tempted to ask him
where his hairdresser lived. Ah! what an old gaffer, he was comical
and no mistake, nothing to get excited over.

Then, on finding him always behind her, she no longer thought him so
funny. She became afraid of him and would have called out if he had
approached her. Often, when she stopped in front of a jeweler's shop,
she heard him stammering something behind her. And what he said was
true; she would have liked to have had a cross with a velvet neck-
band, or a pair of coral earrings, so small you would have thought
they were drops of blood.

More and more, as she plodded through the mire of the streets, getting
splashed by passing vehicles and being dazzled by the magnificence of
the window displays, she felt longings that tortured her like hunger
pangs, yearnings for better clothes, for eating in restaurants, for
going to the theatre, for a room of her own with nice furniture. Right
at those moments, it never failed that her old gentleman would come up
to whisper something in her ear. Oh, if only she wasn't afraid of him,
how readily she would have taken up with him.

When the winter arrived, life became impossible at home. Nana had her
hiding every night. When her father was tired of beating her, her
mother smacked her to teach her how to behave. And there were free-
for-alls; as soon as one of them began to beat her, the other took her
part, so that all three of them ended by rolling on the floor in the
midst of the broken crockery. And with all this, there were short
rations and they shivered with cold. Whenever the girl bought anything
pretty, a bow or a pair of buttons, her parents confiscated the
purchase and drank what they could get for it. She had nothing of her
own, excepting her allowance of blows, before coiling herself up
between the rags of a sheet, where she shivered under her little black
skirt, which she stretched out by way of a blanket. No, that cursed
life could not continue; she was not going to leave her skin in it.
Her father had long since ceased to count for her; when a father gets
drunk like hers did, he isn't a father, but a dirty beast one longs to
be rid of. And now, too, her mother was doing down the hill in her
esteem. She drank as well. She liked to go and fetch her husband at
Pere Colombe's, so as to be treated; and she willingly sat down, with
none of the air of disgust that she had assumed on the first occasion,
draining glasses indeed at one gulp, dragging her elbows over the
table for hours and leaving the place with her eyes starting out of
her head.

When Nana passed in front of l'Assommoir and saw her mother inside,
with her nose in her glass, fuddled in the midst of the disputing men,
she was seized with anger; for youth which has other dainty thoughts
uppermost does not understand drink. On these evenings it was a pretty
sight. Father drunk, mother drunk, a hell of a home that stunk with
liquor, and where there was no bread. To tell the truth, a saint would
not have stayed in the place. So much the worse if she flew the coop
one of these days; her parents would have to say their /mea culpa/,
and own that they had driven her out themselves.

One Saturday when Nana came home she found her father and her mother
in a lamentable condition. Coupeau, who had fallen across the bed was
snoring. Gervaise, crouching on a chair was swaying her head, with her
eyes vaguely and threateningly staring into vacancy. She had forgotten
to warm the dinner, the remains of a stew. A tallow dip which she
neglected to snuff revealed the shameful misery of their hovel.

"It's you, shrimp?" stammered Gervaise. "Ah, well, your father will
take care of you."

Nana did not answer, but remained pale, looking at the cold stove, the
table on which no plates were laid, the lugubrious hovel which this
pair of drunkards invested with the pale horror of their callousness.
She did not take off her hat but walked round the room; then with her
teeth tightly set, she opened the door and went out.

"You are doing down again?" asked her mother, who was unable even to
turn her head.

"Yes; I've forgotten something. I shall come up again. Good evening."

And she did not return. On the morrow when the Coupeaus were sobered
they fought together, reproaching each other with being the cause of
Nana's flight. Ah! she was far away if she were running still! As
children are told of sparrows, her parents might set a pinch of salt
on her tail, and then perhaps they would catch her. It was a great
blow, and crushed Gervaise, for despite the impairment of her
faculties, she realized perfectly well that her daughter's misconduct
lowered her still more; she was alone now, with no child to think
about, able to let herself sink as low as she could fall. She drank
steadily for three days. Coupeau prowled along the exterior Boulevards
without seeing Nana and then came home to smoke his pipe peacefully.
He was always back in time for his soup.

In this tenement, where girls flew off every month like canaries whose
cages are left open, no one was astonished to hear of the Coupeaus'
mishap. But the Lorilleuxs were triumphant. Ah! they had predicted
that the girl would reward her parents in this fashion. It was
deserved; all artificial flower-girls went that way. The Boches and
the Poissons also sneered with an extraordinary display and outlay of
grief. Lantier alone covertly defended Nana. /Mon Dieu!/ said he, with
his puritanical air, no doubt a girl who so left her home did offend
her parents; but, with a gleam in the corner of his eyes, he added
that, dash it! the girl was, after all, too pretty to lead such a life
of misery at her age.

"Do you know," cried Madame Lorilleux, one day in the Boches' room,
where the party were taking coffee; "well, as sure as daylight, Clump-
clump sold her daughter. Yes she sold her, and I have proof of it!
That old fellow, who was always on the stairs morning and night, went
up to pay something on account. It stares one in the face. They were
seen together at the Ambigu Theatre--the young wench and her old tom
cat. Upon my word of honor, they're living together, it's quite
plain."

They discussed the scandal thoroughly while finishing their coffee.
Yes, it was quite possible. Soon most of the neighborhood accepted the
conclusion that Gervaise had actually sold her daughter.

Gervaise now shuffled along in her slippers, without caring a rap for
anyone. You might have called her a thief in the street, she wouldn't
have turned round. For a month past she hadn't looked at Madame
Fauconnier's; the latter had had to turn her out of the place to avoid
disputes. In a few weeks' time she had successively entered the
service of eight washerwomen; she only lasted two or three days in
each place before she got the sack, so badly did she iron the things
entrusted to her, careless and dirty, her mind failing to such a point
that she quite forgot her own craft. At last realizing her own
incapacity she abandoned ironing; and went out washing by the day at
the wash-house in the Rue Neuve, where she still jogged on,
floundering about in the water, fighting with filth, reduced to the
roughest but simplest work, a bit lower on the down-hill slopes. The
wash-house scarcely beautified her. A real mud-splashed dog when she
came out of it, soaked and showing her blue skin. At the same time she
grew stouter and stouter, despite her frequent dances before the empty
sideboard, and her leg became so crooked that she could no longer walk
beside anyone without the risk of knocking him over, so great indeed
was her limp.

Naturally enough when a woman falls to this point all her pride leaves
her. Gervaise had divested herself of all her old self-respect,
coquetry and need of sentiment, propriety and politeness. You might
have kicked her, no matter where, she did not feel kicks for she had
become too fat and flabby. Lantier had altogether neglected her; he no
longer escorted her or even bothered to give her a pinch now and
again. She did not seem to notice this finish of a long liaison slowly
spun out, and ending in mutual insolence. It was a chore the less for
her. Even Lantier's intimacy with Virginie left her quite calm, so
great was her indifference now for all that she had been so upset
about in the past. She would even have held a candle for them now.

Everyone was aware that Virginie and Lantier were carrying on. It was
much too convenient, especially with Poisson on duty every other
night. Lantier had thought of himself when he advised Virginie to deal
in dainties. He was too much of a Provincial not to adore sugared
things; and in fact he would have lived off sugar candy, lozenges,
pastilles, sugar plums and chocolate. Sugared almonds especially left
a little froth on his lips so keenly did they tickle his palate. For a
year he had been living only on sweetmeats. He opened the drawers and
stuffed himself whenever Virginie asked him to mind the shop. Often,
when he was talking in the presence of five or six other people, he
would take the lid off a jar on the counter, dip his hand into it and
begin to nibble at something sweet; the glass jar remained open and
its contents diminished. People ceased paying attention to it, it was
a mania of his so he had declared. Besides, he had devised a perpetual
cold, an irritation of the throat, which he always talked of calming.

He still did not work, for he had more and more important schemes than
ever in view. He was contriving a superb invention--the umbrella hat,
a hat which transformed itself into an umbrella on your head as soon
as a shower commenced to fall; and he promised Poisson half shares in
the profit of it, and even borrowed twenty franc pieces of him to
defray the cost of experiments. Meanwhile the shop melted away on his
tongue. All the stock-in-trade followed suit down to the chocolate
cigars and pipes in pink caramel. Whenever he was stuffed with
sweetmeats and seized with a fit of tenderness, he paid himself with a
last lick on the groceress in a corner, who found him all sugar with
lips which tasted like burnt almonds. Such a delightful man to kiss!
He was positively becoming all honey. The Boches said he merely had to
dip a finger into his coffee to sweeten it.

Softened by this perpetual dessert, Lantier showed himself paternal
towards Gervaise. He gave her advice and scolded her because she no
longer liked to work. Indeed! A woman of her age ought to know how to
turn herself round. And he accused her of having always been a
glutton. Nevertheless, as one ought to hold out a helping hand, even
to folks who don't deserve it, he tried to find her a little work.
Thus he had prevailed upon Virginie to let Gervaise come once a week
to scrub the shop and the rooms. That was the sort of thing she
understood and on each occasion she earned her thirty sous. Gervaise
arrived on the Saturday morning with a pail and a scrubbing brush,
without seeming to suffer in the least at having to perform a dirty,
humble duty, a charwoman's work in the dwelling-place where she had
reigned as the beautiful fair-haired mistress. It was a last
humiliation, the end of her pride.

One Saturday she had a hard job of it. It had rained for three days
and the customers seemed to have brought all the mud of the
neighborhood into the shop on the soles of their boots. Virginie wa