lar or the garret. I enter without difficulty, you
understand--'Despatch from the general of division'. I find him
in his study or elsewhere, present my paper, and while he opens
it, I kill him with this dagger, here in my sleeve."

"Yes, but you and your men?"

"Ah, faith! In God's care; we are defending his cause, it is for
him to take care of us."

"Well, you see, colonel," said Cadoudal, "how easy it all is.
Let us mount, colonel! Good luck, Coeur-de-Roi!"

"Which of these two horses am I to take?" asked Roland.

"Either; one is as good as the other; each has an excellent pair
of English pistols in its holsters."

"Loaded?"

"And well-loaded, colonel; that's a job I never trust to any one."

"Then we'll mount."

The two young men were soon in their saddles, and on the road
to Vannes; Cadoudal guiding Roland, and Branche-d'Or, the
major-general of the army, as Georges called him, following about
twenty paces in the rear.

When they reached the end of the village, Roland darted his eyes
along the road, which stretches in a straight line from Muzillac
to the Trinité. The road, fully exposed to view, seemed absolutely
solitary.

They rode on for about a mile and a half, then Roland said: "But
where the devil are your men?"

"To right and left, before and behind us."

"Ha, what a joke!"

"It's not a joke, colonel; do you think I should be so rash as
to risk myself thus without scouts?"

"You told me, I think, that if I wished to see your men I had
only to say so."

"I did say so."

"Well, I wish to see them."

"Wholly, or in part?"

"How many did you say were with you?"

"Three hundred."

"Well, I want to see one hundred and fifty."

"Halt!" cried Cadoudal.

Putting his hands to his mouth he gave the hoot of the screech-owl,
followed by the cry of an owl; but he threw the hoot to the right
and the cry to the left.

Almost instantly, on both sides of the road, human forms could
be seen in motion, bounding over the ditch which separated the
bushes from the road, and then ranging themselves beside the
horses.

"Who commands on the right?" asked Cadoudal.

"I, Moustache," replied a peasant, coming near.

"Who commands on the left?" repeated the general.

"I, Chante-en-hiver," replied another peasant, also approaching
him.

"How many men are with you, Moustache?"

"One hundred."

"How many men are with you, Chante-en-hiver?"

"Fifty."

"One hundred and fifty in all, then?" asked Georges.

"Yes," replied the two Breton leaders.

"Is that your number, colonel?" asked Cadoudal laughing.

"You are a magician, general."

"No; I am a poor peasant like them; only I command a troop in
which each brain knows what it does, each heart beats singly for
the two great principles of this world, religion and monarchy."
Then, turning to his men, Cadoudal asked: "Who commands the advanced
guard?"

"Fend-l'air," replied the two Chouans.

"And the rear-guard?"

"La Giberne."

The second reply was made with the same unanimity as the first.

"Then we can safely continue our way?"

"Yes, general; as if you were going to mass in your own village."

"Let us ride on then, colonel," said Cadoudal to Roland. Then
turning to his men he cried: "Be lively, my lads."

Instantly every man jumped the ditch and disappeared. For a few
seconds the crackling of twigs on the bushes, and the sound of
steps among the underbrush, was heard. Then all was silent.

"Well," asked Cadoudal, "do you think that with such men I have
anything to fear from the Blues, brave as they may be?"

Roland heaved a sigh; he was of Cadoudal's opinion.

They rode on. About three miles from Trinité they caught sight
of a black spot approaching along the road with great rapidity.
As it became more distinct this spot stopped suddenly.

"What is that?" asked Roland.

"As you see, a man," replied Cadoudal.

"Of course; but who is this man?"

"You might have guessed from the rapidity of his coming; he is
a messenger."

"Why does he stop?"

"Because he has seen us, and does not know whether to advance
or retreat."

"What will he do?"

"Wait before deciding."

"For what?"

"A signal."

"Will he answer the signal?"

"He will not only answer but obey it. Will you have him advance
or retreat; or will you have him step aside."

"I wish him to advance; by that means we shall know the news he
brings."

Cadoudal gave the call of the cuckoo with such perfection that
Roland looked about him for the bird.

"It was I," said Cadoudal, "you need not look for it."

"Is the messenger going to come?"

"Not-going to, he is coming."

The messenger had already started, and was rapidly approaching;
in a few seconds he was beside his general.

"Ah!" said the latter, "is that you, Monte-à-l'assaut?"

The general stooped, and Monte-à-l'assaut said a few words in
his ear.

"Bénédicité has already warned me," said Georges. Then turning
to Roland, he said, "Something of importance is to happen in
the village of the Trinité in a quarter of an hour, which you
ought to see. Come, hurry up."

And, setting the example, he put his horse to a gallop. Roland
did the same.

When they reached the village they could see from a distance, by
the light of some pine torches, a tumultuous mob in the market
square. The cries and movements of this mob bespoke some grave
occurrence.

"Fast, fast!" cried Cadoudal.

Roland asked no better; he dug his spurs in his horse's belly.

At the clatter of horses' hoofs the peasants scattered. There
were five or six hundred of them at least, all armed.

Cadoudal and Roland found themselves in a circle of light in the
midst of cries and agitation.

The crowd was pressing more particularly toward the opening of a
street which led to the village of Tridon. A diligence was coming
down that street escorted by a dozen Chouans; two on either side
of the postilion, ten others guarding the doors. The carriage
stopped in the middle of the market-square. All were so intent
upon the diligence that they paid but scant attention to Cadoudal.

"Hola," shouted Georges. "What is all this?"

At this well known voice, everyone turned round, and heads were
uncovered.

"The Big Round Head!" they murmured.

"Yes," said Cadoudal.

A man went up to Georges.

"Didn't Bénédicité and Monte-à-l'assaut notify you?" he inquired.

"Yes. Is that the diligence from Ploermel to Vannes that you are
bringing back?"

"Yes, general. It was stopped between Tréfléon and Saint-Nolf."

"Is he in it?"

"We think so."

"Act according to your consciences; if it is a crime toward God,
take it on yourselves; I take only the responsibility toward
men. I will be present at what takes place; but I will not share
in it--either to hinder or help."

"Well," demanded a hundred voices, "what does he say, Sabre-tout?"

"He says we must act according to our consciences, and that he
washes his hands of it."

"Long live the Big Round Head!" cried all the people, rushing
toward the diligence.

Cadoudal remained motionless in the midst of this crowd. Roland
stood near him, also motionless, but full of curiosity; for he
was completely ignorant of who, or what, was in question.

The man who had just spoken to Cadoudal, and whom his companions
called Sabre-tout, opened the door. The travellers were huddled
together and trembling in the darkness within.

"If you have nothing to reproach yourselves with against God or
the king," said Sabre-tout in a full sonorous voice, "descend
without fear. We are not brigands, we are Christians and royalists."

This declaration no doubt reassured the travellers, for a man
got out, then two women, then a mother pressing her child in
her arms, and finally another man. The Chouans examined them
attentively as they came down the carriage steps; not finding
the man they wanted, they said to each traveller, "Pass on."

One man alone remained in the coach. A Chouan thrust a torch in
the vehicle, and by its light they could see he was a priest.

"Minister of the Lord," said Sabre-tout, "why did you not descend
with the others? Did you not hear me say we were Christians and
royalists?"

The priest did not move; but his teeth chattered.

"Why this terror?" continued Sabre-tout. "Does not your cloth
plead for you? The man who wears a cassock can have done nothing
against royalty or religion."

The priest crouched back, murmuring: "Mercy! mercy!"

"Why mercy?" demanded Sabre-tout, "do you feel that you are guilty,
wretch?"

"Oh! oh!" exclaimed Roland, "is that how you royalists and Christians
speak to a man of God!"

"That man," said Cadoudal, "is not a man of God, but a man of
the devil."

"Who is he, then?"

"Both an atheist and a regicide; he denied his God and voted
for the death of the king. That is the Conventional Audrein."

Roland shuddered. "What will they do?" he asked.

"He gave death, he will receive death," answered Cadoudal.

During this time the Chouans had pulled Audrein out of the diligence.

"Ha! is it you, bishop of Vannes?" cried Sabre-tout.

"Mercy!" begged the bishop.

"We were informed of your arrival, and were waiting for you."

"Mercy!" repeated the bishop for the third time.

"Have you your pontifical robes with you?"

"Yes, my friends, I have."

"Then dress yourself as a prelate; it is long since we have seen one."

A trunk marked with the prelate's name was taken from the diligence
and opened. They took the bishop's robes from it, and handed them
to Audrein, who put them on. Then, when every vestment was in
its place, the peasants ranged themselves in a circle, each with
his musket in his hand. The glare of the torches was reflected on
the barrels, casting evil gleams.

Two men took the priest and led him into the circle, supporting
him beneath his arms. He was pale as death. There was a moment
of lugubrious silence.

A voice broke it. It was that of Sabre-tout.

"We are about to judge you," said the Chouan. "Priest of God,
you have betrayed the Church; child of France, you have condemned
your king to death."

"Alas! alas!" stammered the priest.

"Is it true?"

"I do not deny it."

"Because it is impossible to deny. What have you to say in
justification?"

"Citizens--"

"We are not citizens," cried Sabre-tout, in a voice thunder, "we
are royalists."

"Gentlemen--"

"We are not gentlemen; we are Chouans."

"My friends--"

"We are not your friends; we are your judges. You judges are
questioning you; answer."

"I repent of what I did, and I ask pardon of God and men."

"Men cannot pardon you," replied the same implacable voice; "for,
pardoned to-day, you would sin to-morrow. You may change your
skin, but never your heart. You have nothing to expect from men
but death; as for God, implore his mercy."

The regicide bowed his head; the renegade bent his knee. But
suddenly drawing himself up, he cried: "I voted the king's death,
it is true, but with a reservation--"

"What reservation?"

"The time of the execution."

"Sooner or later, it was still the king's death which you voted,
and the king was innocent."

"True, true," said the priest, "but I was afraid."

"Then you are not only a regicide, and an apostate, but also
a coward. We are not priests, but we are more just than you.
You voted the death of the innocent; we vote the death of the
guilty. You have ten minutes in which to prepare to meet your
God."

The bishop gave a cry of terror and fell upon both knees; the
church bells rang, as if of their own impulse, and two of the
men present, accustomed to the offices of the church, intoned
the prayers for the dying. It was some time before the bishop
found words with which to respond. He turned affrighted glances
in supplication to his judges one after the other, but, not one
face met his with even the consolation of mere pity. The torches,
flickering in the wind, lent them, on the contrary, a savage
and terrible expression. Then at last he mingled his voice with
the voices that were praying for him.

The judges allowed him time to follow the funeral prayer to its
close. In the meantime others were preparing a pile of wood.

"Oh!" cried the priest, beholding these preparations with growing
terror; "would you have the cruelty to kill me thus?"

"No," replied his inflexible accuser, "flames are the death of
martyrs; you are not worthy of such a death. Apostate, the hour
has come!"

"Oh, my God! my God!" cried the priest, raising his arms to heaven.

"Stand up!" said the Chouan.

The priest tried to obey, but his strength failed him, and he
fell again to his knees.

"Will yon let that murder be done before your eyes?" Roland asked
Cadoudal.

"I said that I washed my hands of it," replied the latter.

"Pilate said that, and Pilate's hands are to this day red with
the blood of Jesus Christ."

"Because Jesus Christ was a righteous man; this man is a Barabbas."

"Kiss your cross! kiss your cross!" cried Sabre-tout.

The prelate looked at him with a terrified air, but without obeying.
It was evident that he no longer saw, no longer heard.

"Oh!" cried Roland, making an effort to dismount, "it shall never
be said that I let a man be murdered before me, and did not try
to, save him."

A threatening murmur rose around him; his words had been overheard.
That was all that was needed to excite the young man.

"Ah! is that the way of it?" he cried, carrying his hand to one
of his holsters.

But with a movement rapid as thought, Cadoudal seized his hand,
and, while Roland struggled vainly to free himself from this
grip of iron, he shouted: "Fire!"

Twenty shots resounded instantly, and the bishop fell, an inert
mass.

"Ah!" cried Roland. "What have you done?"

"Forced you to keep your promise," replied Cadoudal; "you swore
to see all and hear all without offering any opposition."

"So perish all enemies of God and the king," said Sabre-tout,
in a solemn voice.

"Amen!" responded the spectators with one voice of sinister
unanimity.

Then they stripped the body of its sacerdotal ornaments, which
they flung upon the pile of wood, invited the other travellers
to take their places in the diligence, replaced the postilion
in his saddle, and, opening their ranks to give passage to the
coach, cried: "Go with God!"

The diligence rolled rapidly away.

"Come, let us go," cried Cadoudal, "we have still twelve miles
to do, and we have lost an hour here." Then, addressing the
executioners, he said: "That man was guilty; that man is punished.
Human justice and divine justice are satisfied. Let prayers for
the dead be said over his body, and give him Christian burial;
do you hear?" And sure of being obeyed, Cadoudal put his horse
to a gallop.

Roland seemed to hesitate for a moment whether to follow him
or not; then, as if resolving to accomplish a duty, he said: "I
will go to the end."

Spurring his horse in the direction taken by Cadoudal he reached
the Chouan leader in a few strides. Both disappeared in the darkness,
which grew thicker and thicker as the men left the place where
the torches were illuminating the dead priest's face and the
fire was consuming his vestments.




CHAPTER XXXIV

THE DIPLOMACY OF GEORGES CADOUDAL

The feeling that Roland experienced as he followed Georges Cadoudal
resembled that of a man half-awakened, who is still under the
influence of a dream, and returns gradually from the confines
which separate night from day. He strives to discover whether
the ground he walks on is that of fiction or reality, and the
more he burrows in the dimness of his brain the further he buries
himself in doubt.

A man existed for whom Roland felt a worship almost divine.
Accustomed to live in the atmosphere of glory which surrounded that
man, to see others obey his orders, and to obey them himself with
a promptness and abnegation that were almost Oriental, it seemed
amazing to him to encounter, at the opposite ends of France, two
organized powers, enemies of the power of that man, and prepared
to struggle against it. Suppose a Jew of Judas Maccabeus, a
worshipper of Jehovah, having, from his infancy, heard him called
the King of kings, the God of strength, of vengeance, of armies,
the Eternal, coming suddenly face to face with the mysterious
Osiris of the Egyptians, or the thundering Jupiter of the Greeks.

His adventures at Avignon and Bourg with Morgan and the Company
of Jehu, his adventures in the villages of Muzillac and the Trinité
with Cadoudal and his Chouans, seemed to him some strange initiation
in an unknown religion; but like those courageous neophytes who
risk death to learn the secrets of initiation, he resolved to
follow to the end.

Besides he was not without a certain admiration for these exceptional
characters; nor did he measure without a certain amazement these
revolted Titans, challenging his god; he felt they were in no
sense common men--neither those who had stabbed Sir John in the
Chartreuse of Seillon, nor those who had shot the bishop of Vannes
at the village of the Trinité.

And now, what was he to see? He was soon to know, for they had
ridden five hours and a half and the day was breaking.

Beyond the village of Tridon they turned across country; leaving
Vannes to the left, they reached Tréfléon. At Tréfléon, Cadoudal,
still followed by his major-general, Branche-d'Or, had found
Monte-à-l'assaut and Chante-en-hiver. He gave them further orders,
and continued on his way, bearing to the left and skirting the
edges of a little wood which lies between Grandchamp and Larré.
There Cadoudal halted, imitated, three separate times in succession,
the cry of an owl, and was presently surrounded by his three
hundred men.

A grayish light was spreading through the sky beyond Tréfléon
and Saint-Nolf; it was not the rising of the sun, but the first
rays of dawn. A heavy mist rose from the earth and prevented
the eye from seeing more than fifty feet beyond it.

Cadoudal seemed to be expecting news before risking himself further.

Suddenly, about five hundred paces distant, the crowing of a
cock was heard. Cadoudal pricked up his ears; his men looked at
each other and laughed.

The cock crowed again, but nearer.

"It is he," said Cadoudal; "answer him."

The howling of a dog came from within three feet of Roland, but
so perfectly imitated that the young man, although aware of what
it was, looked about him for the animal that was uttering such
lugubrious plaints. Almost at the same moment he saw a man coming
rapidly through the mist, his form growing more and more distinct
as he approached. The new-comer saw the two horsemen, and went
toward them.

Cadoudal rode forward a few paces, putting his finger to his lips,
as if to request the man to speak low. The latter, therefore,
did not pause until he was close beside his general.

"Well, Fleur-d'épine," asked Georges, "have we got them?"

"Like a mouse in a trap; not one can re-enter Vannes, if you say
the word."

"I desire nothing better. How many are there?"

"One hundred men, commanded by the general himself."

"How many wagons?"

"Seventeen."

"When did they start?"

"They must be about a mile and three-quarters from here."

"What road have they taken?"

"Grandchamp to Vannes."

"So that, if I deploy from Meucon to Plescop--"

"You'll bar the way."

"That's all."

Cadoudal called his four lieutenants, Chante-en-hiver,
Monte-à-l'assaut, Fend-l'air, and La Giberne, to him, gave each
of them fifty men, and each with his men disappeared like shadows
in the heavy mist, giving the well-known hoot, as they vanished.
Cadoudal was left with a hundred men, Branche-d'Or and Fleur-d'épine.
He returned to Roland.

"Well, general," said the latter, "is everything satisfactory?"

"Yes, colonel, fairly so," replied the Chouan; "but you can judge
for yourself in half an hour."

"It will be difficult to judge of anything in that mist."

Cadoudal looked about him.

"It will lift in half an hour," said he. "Will you utilize the
time by eating a mouthful and drinking a glass?"

"Faith!" said the young man, "I must admit that the ride has
hollowed me."

"I make a point," said Georges, "of eating the best breakfast
I can before fighting."

"Then you are going to fight?"

"I think so."

"Against whom?"

"Why, the Republicans, and as we have to do with General Hatry,
I doubt if he surrenders without resistance."

"Do the Republicans know they are going to fight you?"

"They haven't the least idea."

"So it is to be a surprise?"

"Not exactly, inasmuch as when the fog lifts they will see us
as soon as we see them." Then, turning to the man who seemed
to be in charge of the provisions, Cadoudal added, "Brise-Bleu,
is there anything for breakfast?"

Brise-Bleu nodded affirmatively, went into the wood, and came out
dragging after him a donkey loaded with two baskets. He spread a
cloak on a rise of the ground, and placed on it a roast chicken,
a bit of cold salt pork, some bread and buckwheat cakes. This
time Brise-Bleu had provided luxury in the shape of a bottle
of wine and a glass.

Cadoudal motioned Roland to the table and the improvised repast.
The young man sprang from his horse, throwing the bridle to a
Chouan. Cadoudal did likewise.

"Now," said the latter, turning to his men, "you have half an
hour to do as we do. Those who have not breakfasted in half an
hour are notified that they must fight on empty stomachs."

The invitation seemed equivalent to an order, so promptly and
precisely was it executed. Every man pulled from his bag or his
pocket a bit of bread or a buckwheat cake, and followed the example
of his general, who had already divided the chicken between Roland
and himself. As there was but one glass, both officers shared it.

While they were thus breakfasting, side by side, like two friends
on a hunt, the sun rose, and, as Cadoudal had predicted, the
mist became less and less dense. Soon the nearest trees could
be distinguished; then the line of the woods, stretching to the
right from Meucon to Grand-champ, while to the left the plain of
Plescop, threaded by a rivulet, sloped gradually toward Vannes.
This natural declivity of the ground became more and more perceptible
as it neared the ocean.

On the road from Grandchamp to Plescop, a line of wagons were
now visible, the tail of which was still hidden in the woods.
This line was motionless; evidently some unforeseen obstacle
had stopped it.

In fact, about a quarter of a mile before the leading wagon they
perceived the two hundred Chouans, under Monte-à-l'assaut,
Chante-en-hiver, Fend-l'air, and Giberne, barring the way.

The Republicans, inferior in number--we said that there were but
a hundred--had halted and were awaiting the complete dispersion
of the fog to determine the number and character of the men they
were about to meet. Men and wagons were now in a triangle, of
which Cadoudal and his hundred men formed one of the angles.

At sight of this small number of men thus surrounded by triple
forces, and of the well-known uniform, of which the color had
given its name to the Republican forces, Roland sprang hastily to
his feet. As for Cadoudal, he remained where he was, nonchalantly
finishing his meal. Of the hundred men surrounding the general,
not one seemed to perceive the spectacle that was now before their
eyes; it seemed almost as if they were waiting for Cadoudal's
order to look at it.

Roland had only to cast his eyes on the Republicans to see that
they were lost. Cadoudal watched the various emotions that succeeded
each other on the young man's face.

"Well," asked the Chouan, after a moment's silence, "do you think
my dispositions well taken?"

"You might better say your precautions, general," replied Roland,
with a sarcastic smile.

"Isn't it the First Consul's way to make the most of his advantages
when he gets them?" asked Cadoudal.

Roland bit his lips; then, instead of replying to the royalist
leader's question, he said: "General, I have a favor to ask which
I hope you will not refuse."

"What is it?"

"Permission to let me go and be killed with my comrades."

Cadoudal rose. "I expected that request," he said.

"Then you will grant it?" cried Roland, his eyes sparkling with joy.

"Yes; but, first, I have a favor to ask of you," said the royalist
leader, with supreme dignity.

"Ask it, sir."

"To bear my flag of truce to General Hatry."

"For what purpose?"

"I have several proposals to make to him before the fight begins."

"I presume that among those proposals which you deign to intrust
to me you do not include that of laying down his arms?"

"On the contrary, colonel, you understand that that is the first
of my proposals."

"General Hatry will refuse it."

"That is probable."

"And then?"

"Then I shall give him his choice between two others, either
of which he can, I think, accept without forfeiting his honor."

"What are they?"

"I will tell you in due time. Begin with the first."

"State it."

"General Hatry and his hundred men are surrounded by a triple
force. I offer them their lives; but they must lay down their
arms, and make oath not to serve again in the Vendée for five
years."

Roland shook his head.

"Better that than to see his men annihilated."

"Maybe so; but he would prefer to have his men annihilated, and
be annihilated with them."

"Don't you think," asked Cadoudal, laughing, "that it might be
as well, in any case, to ask him?"

"True," said Roland.

"Well, colonel, be so good as to mount your horse, make yourself
known to him, and deliver my proposal."

"Very well," replied Roland.

"The colonel's horse," said Cadoudal, motioning to the Chouan
who was watching it. The man led it up. The young man sprang
upon it, and rapidly covered the distance which separated him
from the convoy.

A group of men were gathered on its flank, evidently composed of
General Hatry and his officers. Roland rode toward them, scarcely
three gunshots distant from the Chouans. General Hatry's astonishment
was great when he saw an officer in the Republican uniform
approaching him. He left the group and advanced three paces to
meet the messenger.

Roland made himself known, related how he came to be among the
Whites, and transmitted Cadoudal's proposal to General Hatry.

As he has foreseen, the latter refused it. Roland returned to
Cadoudal with a proud and joyful heart. "He refuses!" he cried,
as soon as his voice could be heard.

Cadoudal gave a nod that showed he was not surprised by the refusal.

"Then, in that case," he answered, "go back with my second
proposition. I don't wish to have anything to reproach myself
with in answering to such a judge of honor as you."

Roland bowed. "What is the second proposition?"

"General Hatry shall meet me in the space that separates the two
troops, he shall carry the same arms as I--that is, his sabre and
pistols--and the matter shall be decided  between us. If I kill
him, his men are to submit to the conditions already named, for
we cannot take prisoners; if he kills me his men shall pass free
and be allowed to reach Vannes safely. Come, I hope that's a
proposition you would accept, colonel?"

"I would accept it myself," replied Roland.

"Yes," exclaimed Cadoudal, "but you are not General Hatry. Content
yourself with being a negotiator this time, and if this proposition,
which, if I were he, I wouldn't let escape me, does not please
him, come to me. I'm a good fellow, and I'll make him a third."

Roland rode off a second time; his coming was awaited by the
Republicans with visible impatience. He transmitted the message
to General Hatry.

"Citizen," replied the general, "I must render account of my
conduct to the First Consul. You are his aide-de-camp, and I
charge you on your return to Paris to bear testimony on my behalf
to him. What would you do in my place? Whatever you would do,
that I shall do."

Roland started; his face assumed the grave expression of a man
who is arguing a point of honor in his own mind. Then, at the
end of a few seconds, he said: "General, I should refuse."

"Your reasons, citizen?" demanded the general.

"The chances of a duel are problematic; you cannot subject the
fate of a hundred brave men to a doubtful chance. In an affair
like this, where all are concerned, every man had better defend
his own skin as best he can."

"Is that your opinion, colonel?"

"On my honor."

"It is also mine; carry my reply to the royalist general."

Roland galloped back to Cadoudal, and delivered General Hatry's
reply.

Cadoudal smiled. "I expected it," he said.

"You couldn't have expected it, because it was I who advised him
to make it."

"You thought differently a few moments ago."

"Yes; but you yourself reminded me that I was not General Hatry.
Come, what is your third proposition?" said Roland impatiently;
for he began to perceive, or rather he had perceived from the
beginning, that the noble part in the affair belonged to the
royalist general.

"My third proposition," said Cadoudal, "is not a proposition
but an order; an order for two hundred of my men to withdraw.
General Hatry has one hundred men; I will keep one hundred. My
Breton forefathers were accustomed to fight foot to foot, breast
to breast, man to man, and oftener one to three than three to
one. If General Hatry is victorious, he can walk over our bodies
and tranquilly enter Vannes; if he is defeated, he cannot say
it is by numbers. Go, Monsieur de Montrevel, and remain with
your friends. I give them thus the advantage of numbers, for you
alone are worth ten men."

Roland raised his hat.

"What are you doing, sir?" demanded Cadoudal.

"I always bow to that which is grand, general; I bow to you."

"Come, colonel," said Cadoudal, "a last glass of wine; let each
of us drink to what we love best, to that which we grieve to
leave behind, to that we hope to meet in heaven."

Taking the bottle and the one glass, he filled it half full,
and offered it to Roland. "We have but one glass, Monsieur de
Montrevel; drink first."

"Why first?"

"Because, in the first place, you are my guest, and also because
there is a proverb that whoever drinks after another knows his
thought." Then, he added, laughing: "I want to know your thought,
Monsieur de Montrevel."

Roland emptied the glass and returned it to Cadoudal. The latter
filled his glass half full, as he bad done for Roland, and emptied
it in turn.

"Well," asked Roland, "now do you know my thought, general?"

"My thought," said Roland, with his usual frankness, "is that
you are a brave man, general. I shall feel honored if, at this
moment when we are going to fight against each other, you will
give me your hand."

The two young men clasped hands, more like friends parting for a
long absence than two enemies about to meet on the battlefield.
There was a simple grandeur, full of majesty, in this action.
Each raised his hat.

"Good luck!" said Roland to Cadoudal; "but allow me to doubt
it. I must even confess that it is from my lips, not my heart."

"God keep you, sir," said Cadoudal, "and I hope that my wish
will be realized. It is the honest expression of my thoughts."

"What is to be the signal that you are ready?" inquired Roland.

"A musket shot fired in the air, to which you will reply in the
same way."

"Very good, general," replied Roland. And putting his horse to
a gallop, he crossed the space between the royalist general and
the Republican general for the third time.

"Friends," said Cadoudal, pointing to Roland, "do you see that
young man?"

All eyes were bent upon Roland. "Yes," came from every mouth.

"He came with a safe-guard from our brothers in the Midi; his life
is sacred to you; he may be captured, but it must be living--not
a hair of his head must be touched."

"Very good, general," replied the Chouans.

"And now, my friends, remember that you are the sons of those
thirty Bretons who fought the thirty British between Ploermel
and Josselin, ten leagues from here, and conquered them." Then,
in a low voice, he added with a sigh, "Unhappily we have not
to do with the British this time."

The fog had now lifted completely, and, as usually happens, a
few rays of the wintry sun tinged the plain of Plescop with a
yellow light.

It was easy therefore to distinguish the movements of the two
troops. While Roland was returning to the Republicans, Branche-d'Or
galloped toward the two hundred men who were blocking the way.
He had hardly spoken to Cadoudal's four lieutenants before a
hundred men were seen to wheel to the right and a hundred more
to wheel to the left and march in opposite directions, one toward
Plumergat, the other toward Saint-Ave, leaving the road open.
Each body halted three-quarters of a mile down the road, grounded
arms and remained motionless. Branche-d'Or returned to Cadoudal.

"Have you any special orders to give me, general?" he asked.

"Yes, one," answered Cadoudal, "take eight men and follow me.
When you see the young Republican, with whom I breakfasted, fall
under his horse, fling yourself upon him, you and your eight men,
before he has time to free himself, and take him prisoner."

"Yes, general."

"You know that I must have him safe and sound."

"That's understood, general"

"Choose your eight men. Monsieur de Montrevel once captured, and
his parole given, you can do as you like."

"Suppose he won't give his parole?"

"Then you must surround him so that he can't escape, and watch
him till the fight is over."

"Very well," said Branche-d'Or, heaving a sigh; "but it'll be
a little hard to stand by with folded arms while the others are
having their fun."

"Pooh! who knows?" said Cadoudal; "there'll probably be enough
for every body."

Then, casting a glance over the plain and seeing his own men
stationed apart, and the Republicans massed for battle, he cried:
"A musket!"

They brought one. Cadoudal raised it above his head and fired
in the air. Almost at the same moment, a shot fired in the same
manner from the midst of the Republicans answered like an echo
to that of Cadoudal.

Two drums beating the advance and a bugle were heard. Cadoudal
rose in his stirrups.

"Children," he cried, "have you all said your morning prayers?"

"Yes, yes!" answered almost every voice. "If any of you forgot
them, or did not have time, let them pray now."

Five or six peasants knelt down and prayed.

The drums and bugle drew nearer.

"General, general," cried several voices impatiently, "they are
coming."

The general motioned to the kneeling peasants.

"True," replied the impatient ones.

Those who prayed rose one by one, according as their prayers
had been long or short. By the time they were all afoot, the
Republicans had crossed nearly one-third of the distance. They
marched, bayonets fixed, in three ranks, each rank three abreast.

Roland rode at the head of the first rank, General Hatry between
the first and second. Both were easily recognized, being the
only men on horseback. Among the Chouans, Cadoudal was the only
rider, Branche-d'Or having dismounted to take command of the
eight men who were to follow Georges.

"General," said a voice, "the prayer is ended, and every one is
standing."

Cadoudal looked around him to make sure it was true; then he cried
in a loud voice: "Forward! Enjoy yourselves, my lads!"

This permission, which to Vendéans and Chouans, was equivalent to
sounding a charge, was scarcely given before the Chouans spread
over the fields to cries of "Vive le roi!" waving their hats
with one hand and their guns with the other.

Instead of keeping in rank like the Republicans, they scattered
like sharpshooters, forming an immense crescent, of which Georges
and his horse were the centre.

A moment later the Republicans were flanked and the firing began.
Cadoudal's men were nearly all poachers, that is to say, excellent
marksmen, armed with English carbines, able to carry twice the
length of the army musket. Though the first shots fired might
have seemed wide of range, these messengers of death nevertheless
brought down several men in the Republican ranks.

"Forward!" cried the general.

The soldiers marched on, bayonets fixed; but in a few moments
there was no enemy before them. Cadoudal's hundred men had turned
skirmishers; they had separated, and fifty men were harassing
both of the enemy's flanks. General Hatry ordered his men to
wheel to the right and left. Then came the order: "Fire!"

Two volleys followed with the precision and unanimity of well
disciplined troops; but they were almost without result, for
the Republicans were firing upon scattered men. Not so with the
Chouans, who fired on a mass; with them every shot told.

Roland saw the disadvantage of the position. He looked around
and, amid the smoke, distinguished Cadoudal, erect and motionless
as an equestrian statue. He understood that the royalist leader
was waiting for him.

With a cry he spurred his horse toward him. As if to save him part
of the way, Cadoudal put his horse to a gallop. But a hundred feet
from Cadoudal he drew rein. "Attention!" he said to Branche-d'Or
and his companions.

"Don't be alarmed, general; here we are," said Branche-d'Or.

Cadoudal drew a pistol from his holster and cocked it. Roland,
sabre in hand, was charging, crouched on his horse's neck. When
they were twenty paces apart, Cadoudal slowly raised his hand
in Roland's direction. At ten paces he fired.

The horse Roland was riding had a white star on its forehead.
The ball struck the centre of that star, and the horse, mortally
wounded, rolled over with its rider at Cadoudal's feet.

Cadoudal put spurs to his own horse and jumped both horse and
rider.

Branche-d'Or and his men were ready. They sprang, like a pack
of jaguars, upon Roland, entangled under the body of his horse.
The young man dropped his sword and tried to seize his pistols,
but before he could lay hand upon the holsters two men had him
by the arms, while the four others dragged his horse from between
his legs. The thing was done with such unanimity that it was
easy to see the manoeuvre had been planned.

Roland roared with rage. Branche-d'Or came up to him and put his
hat in his hand.

"I do not surrender!" shouted Roland.

"Useless to do so, Monsieur de Montrevel," replied Branche-d'Or
with the utmost politeness.

"What do you mean?" demanded Roland, exhausting his strength in
a struggle as desperate as it was useless.

"Because you are captured, sir."

It was so true that there could be no answer.

"Then kill me!" cried Roland.

"We don't want to kill you, sir," replied Branche-d'Or.

"Then what do you want?"

"Give us your parole not to fight any more, and you are free."

"Never!" exclaimed Roland.

"Excuse me, Monsieur de Montrevel," said Branche-d'Or, "but that
is not loyal!"

"What!" shrieked Roland, in a fury, "not loyal! You insult me,
villain, because you know I can't defend myself or punish you."

"I am not a villain, and I didn't insult you, Monsieur de Montrevel;
but I do say that by not giving your word, you deprive the general
of nine men, who might be useful to him and who are obliged to
stay here to guard you. That's not the way the Big Round Head
acted toward you. He had two hundred men more than you, and he
sent them away. Now we are only eighty-nine against one hundred."

A flame crossed Roland's face; then almost as suddenly he turned
pale as death.

"You are right, Branche-d'Or," he replied. "Succor or no succor,
I surrender. You and your men can go and fight with your comrades."

The Chouans gave a cry of joy, let go their hold of Roland, and
rushed toward the Republicans, brandishing their hats and muskets,
and shouting: "Vive le roi!"

Roland, freed from their grip, but disarmed physically by his
fall, morally by his parole, went to the little eminence, still
covered by the cloak which had served as a tablecloth for their
breakfast, and sat down. From there he could see the whole combat;
not a detail was lost upon him.

Cadoudal sat erect upon his horse amid fire and smoke, like the
Demon of War, invulnerable and implacable.

Here and there the bodies of a dozen or more Chouans lay stretched
upon the sod. But it was evident that the Republicans, still
massed together, had lost double that number. Wounded men dragged
themselves across the open space, meeting, rearing their bodies
like mangled snakes, to fight, the Republicans with their bayonets,
and the Chouans with their knives. Those of the wounded Chouans
who were too far off to fight their wounded enemies hand to hand,
reloaded their guns, and, struggling to their knees, fired and
fell again.

On either side the struggle was pitiless, incessant, furious;
civil war--that is war without mercy or compassion--waved its
torch above the battlefield.

Cadoudal rode his horse around these living breastworks, firing
at twenty paces, sometimes his pistols, sometimes a musket, which
he discharged, cast aside, and picked up again reloaded. At each
discharge a man fell. The third time he made this round General
Hatry honored him with a fusillade. He disappeared in the flame
and smoke, and Roland saw him go down, he and his horse, as if
annihilated. Ten or a dozen Republicans sprang from the ranks
and met as many Chouans; the struggle was terrible, hand to hand,
body to body, but the Chouans, with their knives, were sure of
the advantage.

Suddenly Cadoudal appeared, erect, a pistol in each hand; it
was the death of two men; two men fell. Then through the gap
left by these ten or twelve he flung himself forward with thirty
men. He had picked up an army musket, and, using it like a club,
he brought down a man with each blow. He broke his way through
the battalion, and reappeared at the other side. Then, like a boar
which returns upon the huntsman he has ripped up and trampled, he
rushed back through the gaping wound and widened it. From that
moment all was over.

General Hatry rallied a score of men, and, with bayonets down,
they fell upon the circle that enveloped them. He marched at
the head of his soldiers on foot; his horse had been killed.
Ten men had fallen before the circle was broken, but at last he
was beyond it. The Chouans wanted to pursue them, but Cadoudal,
in a voice of thunder, called them back.

"You should not have allowed him to pass," he cried, "but having
passed he is free to retreat."

The Chouans obeyed with the religious faith they placed in the
words of their chief.

"And now," said Cadoudal, "cease firing; no more dead; make
prisoners."

The Chouans drew together and surrounded the heaps of dead, and
the few living men, more or less wounded, who lay among the dead.

Surrendering was still fighting in this fatal war, where on both
sides the prisoners were shot--on the one side, because Chouans
and Vendéans were considered brigands; on the other, because
they knew not where to put the captives.

The Republicans threw their guns away, that they might not be
forced to surrender them. When their captors approached them
every cartridge-box was open; every man had fired his last shot.

Cadoudal walked back to Roland.

During the whole of this desperate struggle the young man had
remained on the mound. With his eyes fixed on the battle, his hair
damp with sweat, his breast heaving, he waited for the result.
Then, when he saw the day was lost, his head fell upon his hands,
and he still sat on, his forehead bowed to the earth.

Cadoudal reached him before he seemed to hear the sound of footsteps.
He touched the young man's shoulder. Roland raised his head slowly
without attempting to hide the two great tears that were rolling
down his cheeks.

"General," said Roland, "do with me what you will. I am your
prisoner."

"I can't make the First Consul's ambassador a prisoner," replied
Cadoudal, laughing, "but I can ask him to do me a service."

"Command me, general."

"I need a hospital for the wounded, and a prison for prisoners;
will you take the Republican soldiers, wounded and prisoners,
back to Vannes."

"What do you mean, general?" exclaimed Roland.

"I give them, or rather I confide them to you. I regret that
your horse was killed; so is mine. But there is still that of
Brise-Bleu; accept it."

The young man made a motion of rejection.

"Until you can obtain another, of course," added Cadoudal, bowing.

Roland felt that he must put himself, at least in simplicity,
on a level with the man with whom he was dealing.

"Shall I see you again, general?" he asked, rising.

"I doubt it, sir. My operations call me to the coast near Port-Louis;
your duty recalls you to the Luxembourg."

"What shall I tell the First Consul, general?"

"What you have seen, sir. He must judge between the Abbé Bernier's
diplomacy and that of Georges Cadoudal."

"After what I have seen, sir, I doubt if you ever have need of
me," said Roland; "but in any case remember that you have a friend
near the First Consul."

And he held out his hand to Cadoudal. The royalist took it with
the same frankness and freedom he had shown before the battle.

"Farewell, Monsieur de Montrevel," said he, "I need not ask you
to justify General Hatry. A defeat like that is fully as glorious
as a victory."

During this time Brise-Bleu's horse had been led up for the
Republican colonel.

He sprang into the saddle.

"By the bye," said Cadoudal, "as you go through La Roche-Bernard,
just inquire what has happened to citizen Thomas Millière."

"He is dead," said a voice.

Coeur-de-Roi and his four men, covered with mud and sweat, had
just arrived, but too late for the battle.

Roland cast a last glance at the battlefield, sighed, and, waving
a last farewell to Cadoudal, started at a gallop across the fields
to await, on the road to Vannes, the wagon-load of wounded and
the prisoners he was asked to deliver to General Hatry.

Cadoudal had given a crown of six sous to each man.

Roland could not help reflecting that the gift was made with
the money of the Directory sent to the West by Morgan and the
Companions of Jehu.




CHAPTER XXXV

A PROPOSAL OF MARRIAGE

Roland's first visit on arriving in Paris was to the First Consul.
He brought him the twofold news of the pacification of the Vendée,
and the increasingly bitter insurrection in Brittany.

Bonaparte knew Roland; consequently the triple narrative of Thomas
Millière's murder, the execution of Bishop Audrein, and the fight
at Grandchamp, produced a deep impression upon him. There was,
moreover, in the young man's manner a sombre despair in which he
could not be mistaken.

Roland was miserable over this lost opportunity to get himself
killed. An unknown power seemed to watch over him, carrying him
safe and sound through dangers which resulted fatally to others.
Sir John had found twelve judges and a death-warrant, where he
had seen but a phantom, invulnerable, it is true, but inoffensive.

He blamed himself bitterly for singling out Cadoudal in the fight,
thus exposing himself to a pre-arranged plan of capture, instead
of flinging himself into the fray and killing or being killed.

The First Consul watched him anxiously as he talked; the longing
for death still lingered in his mind, a longing he hoped to cure
by this return to his native land and the endearments of his
family.

He praised and defended General Hatry, but, just and impartial
as a soldier should be, he gave full credit to Cadoudal for the
courage and generosity the royalist general had displayed.

Bonaparte listened gravely, almost sadly; ardent as he was for
foreign war with its glorious halo, his soul revolted at the
internecine strife which drained the life-blood of the nation
and rent its bowels. It was a case in which, to his thinking,
negotiation should be substituted for war. But how negotiate
with a man like Cadoudal?

Bonaparte was not unaware of his own personal seductions when he
chose to exercise them. He resolved to see Cadoudal, and without
saying anything on the subject to Roland, he intended to make use
of him for the interview when the time came. In the meantime he
wanted to see if Brune, in whose talent he had great confidence,
would be more successful than his predecessors.

He dismissed Roland, after telling him of his mother's arrival
and her installation in the little house in the Rue de la Victoire.

Roland sprang into a coach and was driven there at once. He found
Madame de Montrevel as happy and as proud as a woman and a mother
could be. Edouard had gone, the day before, to the Prytanée Français,
and she herself was preparing to return to Amélie, whose health
continued to give her much anxiety.

As for Sir John, he was not only out of danger, but almost well
again. He was in Paris, had called upon Madame de Montrevel,
and, finding that she had gone with Edouard to the Prytanée,
he had left his card. It bore his address, Hôtel Mirabeau, Rue
de Richelieu.

It was eleven o'clock, Sir John's breakfast hour, and Roland had
every chance of finding him at that hour. He got back into his
carriage, and ordered the coachman to stop at the Hôtel Mirabeau.

He found Sir John sitting before an English breakfast, a thing
rarely seen in those days, drinking large cups of tea and eating
bloody chops.

As soon as the Englishman saw Roland he gave a cry of joy and
ran to meet him. Roland himself had acquired a deep affection
for that exceptional nature, where the noblest qualities of the
heart seemed striving to hide themselves beneath national
eccentricities.

Sir John was pale and thin, but in other respects he was well. His
wound had completely healed, and except for a slight oppression,
which was diminishing daily and would soon disappear altogether,
he had almost recovered his former health. He now welcomed Roland
with a tenderness scarcely to be expected from that reserved
nature, declaring that the joy he felt in seeing him again was
all he wanted for his complete recovery.

He begged Roland to share the meal, telling him to order his own
breakfast, a la Française. Roland accepted. Like all soldiers
who had fought the hard wars of the Revolution, when bread was
often lacking, Roland cared little for what he ate; he had acquired
the habit of eating whatever was put before him as a precaution
against the days when there might be nothing at all. Sir John's
attention in asking him to make a French breakfast was scarcely
noticed by him at all.

But what Roland did notice was Sir John's preoccupation of mind.
It was evident that Sir John had something on his lips which he
hesitated to utter. Roland thought he had better help him.

So, when breakfast was nearly over, Roland, with his usual frankness,
which almost bordered upon brutality at times, leaned his elbows
on the table, settled his chin in his hands, and said: "Well, my
dear Sir John, you have something to say to your friend Roland
that you don't dare put into words."

Sir John started, and, from pale as he was, turned crimson.

"Confound it!" continued Roland, "it must be hard to get out;
but, Sir John, if you have many things to ask me, I know but few
that I have the right to refuse you. So, go on; I am listening."

And Roland closed his eyes as if to concentrate all his attention
on what Sir John was about to say. But the matter was evidently,
from Sir John's point of view, so extremely difficult to make
known, that at the end of a dozen seconds, finding that Sir John
was still silent, Roland opened his eyes.

The Englishman was pale again; but this time he was paler than
before. Roland held out his hand to him.

"Why," he said, "I see you want to make some compliment about
the way you were treated at the Château des Noires-Fontaines."

"Precisely, my friend; for the happiness or misery of my life
will date from my sojourn at the château."

Roland looked fixedly at Sir John. "The deuce!" he exclaimed,
"can I be so fortunate--" Then he stopped, remembering that what
he was about to say was most unconventional from the social point
of view.

"Oh!" exclaimed Sir John, "my dear Roland, finish what you were
saying."

"You wish it?"

"I implore you."

"But if I am mistaken; if I should say something nonsensical."

"My friend, my friend, go on."

"Well, as I was saying, my lord, can I be so fortunate as to find
your lordship in love with my sister?"

Sir John gave a cry of joy, and with a rapid movement, of which
so phlegmatic a man might have been thought incapable, he threw
himself in Roland's arms.

"Your sister is an angel, my dear Roland," he exclaimed, "and
I love her with all my heart."

"Are you entirely free to do so, my lord?"

"Entirely. For the last twelve years, as I told you, I have had
my fortune under my own control; it amounts to twenty-five thousand
pounds sterling a year."

"Too much, my dear fellow, for a woman who can only bring you
fifty thousand francs."

"Oh!" said the Englishman, with that national accent that returned
to him occasionally in moments of strong excitement, "if I must
get rid of a part of it, I can do so."

"No," replied Roland, laughing, "that's not necessary. You're rich;
it's unfortunate, but what's to be done?--No, that's not the
question. Do you love my sister?"

"I adore her."

"And she," resumed Roland, "does she love you?"

"Of course you understand," returned Sir John, "that I have not
asked her. I was bound, my dear Roland, to speak to you first,
and if the matter were agreeable, to beg you to plead my cause
with your mother. After I have obtained the consent of both, I
shall make my offer. Or rather, you will make it for me, for I
should never dare."

"Then I am the first to receive your confidence?"

"You are my best friend, and it ought to be so."

"Well, my dear friend, as far as I am concerned, your suit is
won--naturally."

"Your mother and sister remain."

"They will be one. You understand that my mother will leave Amélie
free to make her own choice; and I need not tell you that if
it falls upon you she will be delighted. But there is a person
whom you have forgotten."

"Who is that?" said Sir John, in the tone of a man who, having
weighed all chances for and against, believes he knows them all,
and is met by an obstacle he has never thought of.

"The First Consul," said Roland.

"God--" ejaculated the Englishman, swallowing the last words of
the national oath.

"He spoke to me just before I left for the Vendée of my sister's
marriage," continued Roland; "saying that it no longer concerned
my mother and myself, for he would take charge of it."

"Then," said Sir John, "I am lost."

"Why so?"

"The First Consul does not like the English."

"Say rather that the English do not like the First Consul."

"But who will present my wishes to the First Consul?"

"I will."

"And will you speak of them as agreeable to yourself?"

"I'll turn you into a dove of peace between the two nations,"
said Roland, rising.

"Oh! thank you," cried Sir john, seizing the young man's hand.
Then he added, regretfully, "Must you leave me?"

"My friend, I have only a few hours' leave. I have given one
to my mother, two to you, and I owe one to your friend Edouard.
I want to kiss him and ask his masters to let him scuffle as he
likes with his comrades. Then I must get back to the Luxembourg."

"Well, take him my compliments, and tell him I have ordered another
pair of pistols for him, so that the next time he is attacked by
bandits he needn't use the conductor's."

Roland looked at Sir John.

"Now, what is it?" he asked.

"What! Don't you know?"

"No. What is it I don't know?"

"Something that nearly killed our poor Amélie?"

"What thing?"

"The attack on the diligence."

"But what diligence?"

"The one which your mother was in."

"The diligence my mother was in?"

"Yes."

"The diligence my mother was in was attacked?"

"You have seen Madame de Montrevel, and she didn't tell you?"

"Not a word about that, anyway."

"Well, my dear Edouard proved a hero; as no one else defended
the coach, he did. He took the conductor's pistols and fired."

"Brave boy!" exclaimed Roland.

"Yes, but, unluckily or luckily the conductor had taken the
precaution to remove the bullets. Edouard was praised and petted
by the Companions of Jehu as the bravest of the brave; but he
neither killed nor wounded them."

"Are you sure of what you are telling me?"

"I tell you your sister almost died of fright."

"Very good," said Roland.

"How very good?" exclaimed Sir John.

"I mean, all the more reason why I should see Edouard."

"What makes you say that."

"A plan."

"Tell me what it is."

"Faith! no. My plans don't turn out well for you."

"But you know, my dear Roland, that if there are any reprisals
to make--"

"I shall make them for both. You are in love, my dear fellow;
live in your love."

"You promise me your support?"

"That's understood! I am most anxious to call you brother."

"Are you tired of calling me friend?"

"Faith, yes; it is too little."

"Thanks."

They pressed each other's hands and parted.

A quarter of an hour later Roland reached the Prytanée Français,
which stood then on the present site of the Lyceum of Louis-
le-Grand--that is to say, at the head of the Rue Saint-Jacques,
behind the Sorbonne. At the first words of the director, Roland
saw that his young brother had been especially recommended to
the authorities. The boy was sent for. Edouard flung himself
into the arms of his "big brother" with that passionate adoration
he had for him.

After the first embraces were over, Roland inquired about the
stoppage of the diligence. Madame de Montrevel had been chary
of mentioning it; Sir John had been sober in statement, but not
so Edouard. It was his Iliad, his very own. He related it with
every detail--Jérôme's connivance with the bandits, the pistols
loaded with powder only, his mother's fainting-fit, the attention
paid to her by those who had caused it, his own name known to
the bandits, the fall of the mask from the face of the one who
was restoring his mother, his certainty that she must have seen
the man's face.

Roland was above all struck with this last particular. Then the
boy related their audience with the First Consul, and told how
the latter had kissed and petted him, and finally recommended
him to the director of the Prytanée Français.

Roland learned from the child all that he wished to know, and
as it took but five minutes to go from the Rue Saint Jacques
to the Luxembourg, he was at the palace in that time.




CHAPTER XXXVI

SCULPTURE AND PAINTING

When Roland returned to the Luxembourg, the clock of the palace
marked one hour and a quarter after mid-day.

The First Consul was working with Bourrienne.

If we were merely writing a novel, we should hasten to its close,
and in order to get there more expeditiously we should neglect
certain details, which, we are told, historical figures can do
without. That is not our opinion. From the day we first put pen
to paper--now some thirty years ago--whether our thought were
concentrated on a drama, or whether it spread itself into a novel,
we have had a double end--to instruct and to amuse.

And we say instruct first, for amusement has never been to our
mind anything but a mask for instruction. Have we succeeded? We
think so. Before long we shall have covered with our narratives
an enormous period of time; between the "Comtesse de Salisbury"
and the "Comte de Monte-Cristo" five centuries and a half are
comprised. Well, we assert that we have taught France as much
history about those five centuries and a half as any historian.

More than that; although our opinions are well known; although,
under the Bourbons of the elder branch as under the Bourbons
of the younger branch, under the Republic as under the present
government, we have always proclaimed them loudly, we do not
believe that that opinion has been unduly manifested in our books
and dramas.

We admire the Marquis de Posa in Schiller's "Don Carlos"; but, in
his stead, we should not have anticipated the spirit of that age
to the point of placing a philosopher of the eighteenth century
among the heroes of the sixteenth, an encyclopedist at the court
of Philippe II. Therefore, just as we have been--in literary
parlance--monarchical under the Monarchy, republican under the
Republic, we are to-day reconstructionists under the Consulate.

That does not prevent our thought from hovering above men, above
their epoch, and giving to each the share of good and evil they
do. Now that share no one, except God, has the right to award
from his individual point of view. The kings of Egypt who, at
the moment they passed into the unknown, were judged upon the
threshold of their tombs, were not judged by a man, but by a
people. That is why it is said: "The judgment of a people is
the judgment of God."

Historian, novelist, poet, dramatic author, we are nothing more
than the foreman of a jury who impartially sums up the arguments
and leaves the jury to give their verdict. The book is the summing
up; the readers are the jury.

That is why, having to paint one of the most gigantic figures,
not only of modern times but of all times; having to paint the
period of his transition, that is to say the moment when Bonaparte
transformed himself into Napoleon, the general into an emperor--that
is why we say, in the fear of becoming unjust, we abandon
interpretations and substitute facts.

We are not of those who say with Voltaire that, "no one is a hero
to his valet."

It may be that the valet is near-sighted or envious--two infirmities
that resemble each other more closely than people think. We maintain
that a hero may become a kind man, but a hero, for being kind,
is none the less a hero.

What is a hero in the eyes of the public? A man whose genius is
momentarily greater than his heart. What is a hero in private
life? A man whose heart is momentarily greater than his genius.

Historians, judge the genius!

People, judge the heart!

Who judged Charlemagne? The historians. Who judged Henri IV.?
The people. Which, in your opinion, was the most righteously
judged?

Well, in order to render just judgment, and compel the court
of appeals, which is none other than posterity, to confirm
contemporaneous judgments, it is essential not to light up one
side only of the figure we depict, but to walk around it, and
wherever the sunlight does not reach, to hold a torch, or even
a candle.

Now, let us return to Bonaparte.

He was working, as we said, with Bourrienne. Let us inquire into
the usual division of the First Consul's time.

He rose at seven or eight in the morning, and immediately called
one of his secretaries, preferably Bourrienne, and worked with him
until ten. At ten, breakfast was announced; Josephine, Hortense
and Eugène either waited or sat down to table with the family,
that is with the aides-de-camp on duty and Bourrienne. After
breakfast he talked with the usual party, or the invited guests,
if there were any; one hour was devoted to this intercourse,
which was generally shared by the First Consul's two brothers,
Lucien and Joseph, Regnault de Saint-Jean-d'Angely, Boulay (de
la Meurthe), Monge, Berthollet, Laplace and Arnault. Toward noon
Cambacérès arrived. As a general thing Bonaparte devoted half
an hour to his chancellor; then suddenly, without warning, he
would rise and say: "Au revoir, Josephine! au revoir, Hortense!
Come, Bourrienne, let us go to work."

This speech, which recurred almost regularly in the same words,
was no sooner uttered than Bonaparte left the salon and returned
to his study. There, no system of work was adopted; it might be
some urgent matter or merely a caprice. Either Bonaparte dictated
or Bourrienne read, after which the First Consul went to the
council.

In the earlier months of the Consulate, he was obliged to cross
the courtyard of the little Luxembourg to reach the council-chamber,
which, if the weather were rainy, put him in bad humor; but toward
the end of December he had the courtyard covered; and from that
time he almost always returned to his study singing. Bonaparte
sang almost as false as Louis XV.

As soon as he was back he examined the work he had ordered done,
signed his letters, and stretched himself out in his armchair,
the arms of which he stabbed with his penknife as he talked.
If he was not inclined to talk, he reread the letters of the
day before, or the pamphlets of the day, laughing at intervals
with the hearty laugh of a great child. Then suddenly, as one
awakening from a dream, he would spring to his feet and cry out:
"Write, Bourrienne!"

Then he would sketch out the plan for some building to be erected,
or dictate some one of those vast projects which have amazed--let
us say rather, terrified the world.

At five o'clock he dined; after dinner the First Consul ascended
to Josephine's apartments, where he usually received the visits
of the ministers, and particularly that of the minister of foreign
affairs, M. de Talleyrand. At midnight, sometimes earlier, but
never later, he gave the signal for retiring by saying, brusquely:
"Let us go to bed."

The next day, at seven in the morning, the same life began over
again, varied only by unforeseen incidents.

After these details of the personal habits of the great genius
we are trying to depict under his first aspect, his personal
portrait ought, we think, to come.

Bonaparte, First Consul, has left fewer indications of his personal
appearance than Napoleon, Emperor. Now, as nothing less resembles
the Emperor of 1812 than the First Consul of 1800; let us endeavor,
if possible, to sketch with a pen those features which the brush
has never fully portrayed, that countenance which neither bronze
nor marble has been able to render. Most of the painters and
sculptors who flourished during this illustrious period of art--Gros,
David, Prud'hon, Girodet and Bosio--have endeavored to transmit to
posterity the features of the Man of Destiny, at the different
epochs when the vast providential vistas which beckoned him first
revealed themselves. Thus, we have portraits of Bonaparte,
commander-in-chief, Bonaparte, First Consul, and Napoleon, Emperor;
and although some painters and sculptors have caught more or less
successfully the type of his face, it may be said that there
does not exist, either of the general, the First Consul, or the
emperor, a single portrait or bust which perfectly resembles him.

It was not within the power of even genius to triumph over an
impossibility. During the first part of Bonaparte's life it was
possible to paint or chisel Bonaparte's protuberant skull, his
brow furrowed by the sublime line of thought, his pale elongated
face, his granite complexion, and the meditative character of his
countenance. During the second part of his life it was possible to
paint or to chisel his broadened forehead, his admirably defined
eyebrows, his straight nose, his close-pressed lips, his chin
modelled with rare perfection, his whole face, in short, like a
coin of Augustus. But that which neither his bust nor his portrait
could render, which was utterly beyond the domain of imitation,
was the mobility of his look; that look which is to man what
the lightning is to God, namely, the proof of his divinity.

In Bonaparte, that look obeyed his will with the rapidity of
lightning; in one and the same minute it dared from beneath his
eyelids, now keen and piercing as the blade of a dagger violently
unsheathed, now soft as a sun ray or a kiss, now stern as a
challenge, or terrible as a threat.

Bonaparte had a look for every thought that stirred his soul.
In Napoleon, this look, except in the momentous circumstances of
his life, ceased to be mobile and became fixed, but even so it
was none the less impossible to render; it was a drill sounding
the heart of whosoever he looked upon, the deepest, the most
secret thought of which he meant to sound. Marble or painting
might render the fixedness of that look, but neither the one nor
the other could portray its life--that is to say, its penetrating
and magnetic action. Troubled hearts have veiled eyes.

Bonaparte, even in the days of his leanness, had beautiful hands,
and he displayed them with a certain coquetry. As he grew stouter
his hands became superb; he took the utmost care of them, and
looked at them when talking, with much complacency. He felt the
same satisfaction in his teeth, which were handsome, though not
with the splendor of his hands.

When he walked, either alone or with some one, whether in a room
or in a garden, he always bent a little forward, as though his
head were heavy to carry, and crossed his hands behind his back.
He frequently made an involuntary movement with the right shoulder,
as if a nervous shudder had passed through it, and at the same time
his mouth made a curious movement from right to left, which seemed
to result from the other. These movements, however, had nothing
convulsive about them, whatever may have been said notwithstanding;
they were a simple trick indicative of great preoccupation, a
sort of congestion of the mind. It was chiefly manifested when
the general, the First Consul, or the Emperor, was maturing vast
plans. It was after such promenades, accompanied by this twofold
movement of the shoulders and lips, that he dictated his most
important notes. On a campaign, with the army, on horseback,
he was indefatigable; he was almost as much so in ordinary life,
and would often walk five or six hours in succession without
perceiving it.

When he walked thus with some one with whom he was familiar, he
commonly passed his arm through that or his companion and leaned
upon him.

Slender and thin as he was at the period when we place him before
our readers' eyes, he was much concerned by the fear of future
corpulence; it was to Bourrienne that he usually confided this
singular dread.

"You see, Bourrienne, how slim and abstemious I am. Well, nothing
can rid me of the idea that when I am forty I shall be a great
eater and very fat. I foresee that my constitution will undergo
a change. I take exercise enough, but what will you!--it's a
presentiment; and it won't fail to happen."

We all know to what obesity he attained when a prisoner at Saint
Helena.

He had a positive passion for baths, which no doubt contributed
not a little to make him fat; this passion became an irresistible
need. He took one every other day, and stayed in it two hours,
during which time the journals and pamphlets of the day were
read to him. As the water cooled he would turn the hot-water
faucet until he raised the temperature of his bathroom to such a
degree that the reader could neither bear it any longer, nor see
to read. Not until then would he permit the door to be opened.

It has been said that he was subject to epileptic attacks after
his first campaign in Italy. Bourrienne was with him eleven years,
and never saw him suffer from an attack of this malady.

Bonaparte, though indefatigable when necessity demanded it, required
much sleep, especially during the period of which we are now
writing. Bonaparte, general or First Consul, kept others awake,
but he slept, and slept well. He retired at midnight, sometimes
earlier, as we have said, and when at seven in the morning they
entered his room to awaken him he was always asleep. Usually
at the first call he would rise; but occasionally, still half
asleep, he would mutter: "Bourrienne, I beg of you, let me sleep
a little longer."

Then, if there was nothing urgent, Bourrienne would return at
eight o'clock; if it was otherwise, he insisted, and then, with
much grumbling, Bonaparte would get up. He slept seven, sometimes
eight, hours out of the twenty-four, taking a short nap in the
afternoon. He also gave particular instruction for the night.

"At night," he would say, "come in my room as seldom as possible.
Never wake me if you have good news to announce--good news can
wait; but if there is bad news, wake me instantly, for then there
is not a moment to be lost in facing it."

As soon as Bonaparte had risen and made his morning ablutions,
which were very thorough, his valet entered and brushed his hair
and shaved him; while he was being shaved, a secretary or an
aide-de-camp read the newspapers aloud, always beginning with
the "Moniteur." He gave no real attention to any but the English
and German papers.

"Skip that," he would say when they read him the French papers;
"_I know what they say, because they only say what I choose._"

His toilet completed, Bonaparte went down to his study. We have
seen above what he did there. At ten o'clock the breakfast as
announced, usually by the steward, in these words: "The general
is served." No title, it will be observed, not even that of First
Consul.

The repast was a frugal one. Every morning a dish was served
which Bonaparte particularly liked--a chicken fried in oil with
garlic; the same dish that is now called on the bills of fare
at restaurants "Chicken à la Marengo."

Bonaparte drank little, and then only Bordeaux or Burgundy,
preferably the latter. After breakfast, as after dinner, he drank
a cup of black coffee; never between meals. When he chanced to work
until late at night they brought him, not coffee, but chocolate,
and the secretary who worked with him had a cup of the same.
Most historians, narrators, and biographers, after saying that
Bonaparte drank a great deal of coffee, add that he took snuff
to excess.

They are doubly mistaken. From the time he was twenty-four, Bonaparte
had contracted the habit of taking snuff: but only enough to keep
his brain awake. He took it habitually, not, as biographers have
declared, from the pocket of his waistcoat, but from a snuff-box
which he changed almost every day for a new one--having in this
matter of collecting snuff-boxes a certain resemblance to the great
Frederick. If he ever did take snuff from his waistcoat pocket, it
was on his battle days, when it would have been difficult, while
riding at a gallop under fire, to hold both reins and snuff-box.
For those days he had special waistcoats, with the right-hand
pocket lined with perfumed leather; and, as the sloping cut of
his coat enabled him to insert his thumb and forefinger into
this pocket without unbuttoning his coat, he could, under any
circumstances and at any gait, take snuff when he pleased.

As general or First Consul, he never wore gloves, contenting
himself with holding and crumpling them in his left hand. As
Emperor, there was some advance in this propriety; he wore one
glove, and as he changed his gloves, not once, but two or three
times a day, his valet adopted the habit of giving him alternate
gloves; thus making one pair serve as two.

Bonaparte had two great passions which Napoleon inherited--for
war and architectural monuments to his fame.

Gay, almost jolly in camp, he was dreamy and sombre in repose.
To escape this gloom he had recourse to the electricity of art,
and saw visions of those gigantic monumental works of which he
undertook many, and completed some. He realized that such works are
part of the life of peoples; they are history written in capitals,
landmarks of the ages, left standing long after generations are
swept away. He knew that Rome lives in her ruins, that Greece
speaks by her statues, that Egypt, splendid and mysterious spectre,
appeared through her monuments on the threshold of civilized
existence.

What he loved above everything, what he hugged in preference
to all else, was renown, heroic uproar; hence his need of war,
his thirst for glory. He often said:

"A great reputation is a great noise; the louder it is, the further
it is heard. Laws, institutions, monuments, nations, all fall; but
sound remains and resounds through other generations. Babylon and
Alexandria are fallen; Semiramis and Alexander stand erect, greater
perhaps through the echo of their renown, waxing and multiplying
through the ages, than they were in their lifetimes." Then he
added, connecting these ideas with himself: "My power depends
on my fame and on the battles I win. Conquest has made me what
I am, and conquest alone can sustain me. A new born government
must dazzle, must amaze. The moment it no longer flames, it dies
out; once it ceases to grow, it falls."

He was long a Corsican, impatient under the conquest of his country;
but after the 13th Vendemiaire he became a true Frenchman, and
ended by loving France with true passion. His dream was to see
her great, happy, powerful, at the head of the nations in glory
and in art. It is true that, in making France great, he became
great with her, and attached his name indissolubly to her grandeur.
To him, living eternally in this thought, actuality disappeared
in the future; wherever the hurricane of war may have swept him,
France, above all things else, above all nations, filled his
thoughts. "What will my Athenians think?" said Alexander, after
Issus and Arbela. "I hope the French will be content with me,"
said Bonaparte, after Rivoli and the Pyramids.

Before battle, this modern Alexander gave little thought to what
he should do in case of victory, but much in case of defeat. He,
more than any man, was convinced that trifles often decide the
greatest events; he was therefore more concerned in foreseeing
such events than in producing them. He watched them come to birth,
and ripen; then, when the right time came, he appeared, laid his
hand on them, mastered and guided them, as an able rider roasters
and guides a spirited horse.

His rapid rise in the midst of revolutions and political changes
he had brought about, or seen accomplished, the events which
he had controlled, had given him a certain contempt for men;
moreover, he was not inclined by nature to think well of them.
His lips were often heard to utter the grievous maxim--all the
more grievous because he personally knew its truth--"There are
two levers by which men are moved, fear and self-interest."

With such opinions Bonaparte did not, in fact, believe in friendship.

"How often," said Bourrienne, "has he said to me, 'Friendship
is only a word; I love no one, not even my brothers--Joseph a
little possibly; but if I love him it is only from habit, and
because he is my elder. Duroc, yes, I love him; but why? Because
his character pleases me; because he is stern, cold, resolute;
besides, Duroc never sheds a tear. But why should I love any
one? Do you think I have any true friends? As long as I am what
I am, I shall have friends--apparently at least; but when my
luck ceases, you'll see! Trees don't have leaves in winter. I
tell you, Bourrienne, we must leave whimpering to the women,
it's their business; as for me, no feelings. I need a vigorous
hand and a stout heart; if not, better let war and government
alone.'"

In his familiar intercourse, Bonaparte was what schoolboys call
a tease; but his teasings were never spiteful, and seldom unkind.
His ill-humor, easily aroused, disappeared like a cloud driven
by the wind; it evaporated in words, and disappeared of its own
will. Sometimes, however, when matters of public import were
concerned, and his lieutenants or ministers were to blame, he
gave way to violent anger; his outbursts were then hard and cruel,
and often humiliating. He gave blows with a club, under which,
willingly or unwillingly, the recipient had to bow his head;
witness his scene with Jomini and that with the Duc de Bellune.

Bonaparte had two sets of enemies, the Jacobins and the royalists;
he detested the first and feared the second. In speaking of the
Jacobins, he invariably called them the murderers of Louis XVI.;
as for the royalists, that was another thing; one might almost
have thought he foresaw the Restoration. He had about him two
men who had voted the death of the king, Fouché and Cambacérès.

He dismissed Fouché, and, if he kept Cambacérès, it was because
he wanted the services of that eminent legist; but he could not
endure him, and he would often catch his colleague, the Second
Consul, by the ear, and say: "My poor Cambacérès, I'm so sorry
for you; but your goose is cooked. If ever the Bourbons get back
they will hang you."

One day Cambacérès lost his temper, and with a twist of his head
he pulled his ear from the living pincers that held it.

"Come," he said, "have done with your foolish joking."

Whenever Bonaparte escaped any danger, a childish habit, a Corsican
habit, reappeared; he always made a rapid sign of the cross on his
breast with the thumb.

Whenever he met with any annoyance, or was haunted with a
disagreeable thought, he hummed--what air? An air of his own
that was no air at all, and which nobody ever noticed, he sang so
false. Then, still singing, he would sit down before his writing
desk, tilting in his chair, tipping it back till he almost fell
over, and mutilating, as we have said, its arms with a penknife,
which served no other purpose, inasmuch as he never mended a
pen himself. His secretaries were charged with that duty, and
they mended them in the best manner possible, mindful of the
fact that they would have to copy that terrific writing, which,
as we know, was not absolutely illegible.

The effect produced on Bonaparte by the ringing of bells is known.
It was the only music he understood, and it went straight to
his heart. If he was seated when the vibrations began he would
hold up his hand for silence, and lean toward the sound. If he
was walking, he would stop, bend his head, and listen. As long
as the bell rang he remained motionless; when the sound died
away in space, he resumed his work, saying to those who asked him
to explain this singular liking for the iron voice: "It reminds
me of my first years at Brienne; I was happy then!"

At the period of which we are writing, his greatest personal
interest was the purchase he had made of the domain of Malmaison.
He went there every night like a schoolboy off for his holiday,
and spent Sunday and often Monday there. There, work was neglected
for walking expeditions, during which he personally superintended
the improvements he had ordered. Occasionally, and especially
at first, he would wander beyond the limits of the estate; but
these excursions were thought dangerous by the police, and given
up entirely after the conspiracy of the Aréna and the affair
of the infernal machine.

The revenue derived from Malmaison, calculated by Bonaparte himself,
on the supposition that he should sell his fruits and vegetables,
did not amount to more than six thousand francs.

"That's not bad," he said to Bourrienne; "but," he added with a
sigh, "one must have thirty thousand a year to be able to live
here."

Bonaparte introduced a certain poesy in his taste for the country.
He liked to see a woman with a tall flexible figure glide through
the dusky shrubberies of the park; only that woman must be dressed
in white. He hated gowns of a dark color and had a horror of
stout women. As for pregnant women, he had such an aversion for
them that it was very seldom he invited one to his soirées or
his fêtes. For the rest, with little gallantry in his nature,
too overbearing to attract, scarcely civil to women, it was rare
for him to say, even to the prettiest, a pleasant thing; in fact,
he often produced a shudder by the rude remarks he made even to
Josephine's best friends. To one he remarked: "Oh! what red arms
you have!" To another, "What an ugly headdress you are wearing!"
To a third, "Your gown is dirty; I have seen you wear it twenty
times"; or, "Why don't you change your dressmaker; you are dressed
like a fright."

One day he said to the Duchesse de Chevreuse, a charming blonde,
whose hair was the admiration of everyone:

"It's queer how red your hair is!"

"Possibly," replied the duchess, "but this is the first time any
man has told me so."

Bonaparte did not like cards; when he did happen to play it was
always vingt-et-un. For the rest, he had one trait in common
with Henry IV., he cheated; but when the game was over he left
all the gold and notes he had won on the table, saying:

"You are ninnies! I have cheated all the time we've been playing,
and you never found out. Those who lost can take their money back."

Born and bred in the Catholic faith, Bonaparte had no preference
for any dogma. When he re-established divine worship it was done
as a political act, not as a religious one. He was fond, however,
of discussions bearing on the subject; but he defined his own part
in advance by saying: "My reason makes me a disbeliever in many
things; but the impressions of my childhood and the inspirations
of my early youth have flung me back into uncertainty."

Nevertheless he would never hear of materialism; he cared little
what the dogma was, provided that dogma recognized a Creator.
One beautiful evening in Messidor, on board his vessel, as it
glided along between the twofold azure of the sky and sea, certain
mathematicians declared there was no God, only animated matter.
Bonaparte looked at the celestial arch, a hundred times more
brilliant between Malta and Alexandria than it is in Europe,
and, at a moment when they thought him unconscious of the
conversation, he exclaimed, pointing to the stars: "You may say
what you please, but it was a God who made all that."

Bonaparte, though very exact in paying his private debts, was
just the reverse about public expenses. He was firmly convinced
that in all past transactions between ministers and purveyors
or contractors, that if the minister who had made the contract
was not a dupe, the State at any rate was robbed; for this reason
he delayed the period of payment as long as possible; there were
literally no evasions, no difficulties he would not make, no
bad reasons he would not give. It was a fixed idea with him, an
immutable principle, that every contractor was a cheat.

One day a man who had made a bid that was accepted was presented
to him.

"What is your name?" he asked, with his accustomed brusqueness.

"Vollant, citizen First Consul."

"Good name for a contractor."

"I spell it with two l's, citizen."

"To rob the better, sir," retorted Bonaparte, turning his back
on him.

Bonaparte seldom changed his decisions, even when he saw they
were unjust. No one ever heard him say: "I was mistaken." On
the contrary, his favorite saying was: "I always believe the
worst"--a saying more worthy of Simon than Augustus.

But with all this, one felt that there was more of a desire in
Bonaparte's mind to seem to despise men than actual contempt for
them. He was neither malignant nor vindictive. Sometimes, it is
true, he relied too much upon necessity, that iron-tipped goddess;
but for the rest, take him away from the field of politics and
he was kind, sympathetic, accessible to pity, fond of children
(great proof of a kind and pitying heart), full of indulgence for
human weakness in private life, and sometimes of a good-humored
heartiness, like that of Henri IV. playing with his children in
the presence of the Spanish ambassador.

If we were writing history we should have many more things to
say of Bonaparte without counting those which--after finishing
with Bonaparte--we should still have to say of Napoleon. But we
are writing a simple narrative, in which Bonaparte plays a part;
unfortunately, wherever Bonaparte shows himself, if only for a
moment, he becomes, in spite of himself, a principal personage.

The reader must pardon us for having again fallen into digression;
that man, who is a world in himself, has, against our will, swept
us along in his whirlwind.

Let us return to Roland, and consequently to our legitimate tale.




CHAPTER XXXVII

THE AMBASSADOR

We have seen that Roland, on returning to the Luxembourg, asked
for the First Consul and was told that he was engaged with Fouché,
the minister of police.

Roland was a privileged person; no matter what functionary was
with Bonaparte, he was in the habit, on his return from a journey,
or merely from an errand, of half opening the door and putting
in his head. The First Consul was often so busy that he paid no
attention to this head. When that was the case, Roland would
say "General!" which meant, in the close intimacy which still
existed between the two schoolmates: "General, I am here; do
you need me? I'm at your orders." If the First Consul did not
need him, he replied: "Very good." If on the contrary he did
need him, he said, simply: "Come in." Then Roland would enter,
and wait in the recess of a window until the general told him
what he wanted.

On this occasion, Roland put his head in as usual, saying: "General!"

"Come in," replied the First Consul, with visible satisfaction;
"come in, come in!"

Roland entered. Bonaparte was, as he had been told, busy with
the minister of police. The affair on which the First Consul
was engaged, and which seemed to absorb him a great deal, had
also its interest for Roland.

It concerned the recent stoppages of diligences by the Companions
of Jehu.

On the table lay three _procès-verbaux_ relating the stoppage
of one diligence and two mail-coaches. Tribier, the paymaster of
the Army of Italy, was in one of the latter. The stoppages had
occurred, one on the highroad between Meximieux and Montluel, on
that part of the road which crosses the commune of Bellignieux; the
second, at the extremity of the lake of Silans, in the direction
of Nantua; the third, on the highroad between Saint-Etienne and
Bourg, at a spot called Les Carronnières.

A curious fact was connected with these stoppages. A sum of four
thousand francs and a case of jewelry had been mixed up by mistake
with the money-bags belonging to the government. The owners of
the money had thought them lost, when the justice of the peace
at Nantua received an unsigned letter telling him the place where
these objects had been buried, and requesting him to return them
to their rightful owners, as the Companions of Jehu made war
upon the government and not against private individuals.

In another case; that of the Carronnières--where the robbers,
in order to stop the mail-coach, which had continued on its way
with increased speed in spite of the order to stop, were forced
to fire at a horse--the Companions of Jehu had felt themselves
obliged to make good this loss to the postmaster, who had received
five hundred francs for the dead horse. That was exactly what
the animal had cost eight days before; and this valuation proved
that they were dealing with men who understood horses.

The _procès-verbaux_ sent by the local authorities were
accompanied by the affidavits of the travellers.

Bonaparte was singing that mysterious tune of which we have spoken;
which showed that he was furious. So, as Roland might be expected
to bring him fresh information, he had called him three times
to come in.

"Well," said he, "your part of the country is certainly in revolt
against me; just look at that."

Roland glanced at the papers and understood at once.

"Exactly what I came to speak to you about, general," said he.

"Then begin at once; but first go ask Bourrienne for my department
atlas."

Roland fetched the atlas, and, guessing what Bonaparte desired
to look at, opened it at the department of the Ain.

"That's it," said Bonaparte; "show me where these affairs happened."

Roland laid his finger on the edge of the map, in the neighborhood
of Lyons.

"There, general, that's the exact place of the first attack, near
the village of Bellignieux."

"And the second?"

"Here," said Roland, pointing to the other side of the department,
toward Geneva; "there's the lake of Nantua, and here's that of
Silans."

"Now the third?"

Roland laid his finger on the centre of the map.

"General, there's the exact spot. Les Carronnières are not marked
on the map because of their slight importance."

"What are Les Carronnières?" asked the First Consul.

"General, in our part of the country the manufactories of tiles
are called _carronnières_; they belong to citizen Terrier.
That's the place they ought to be on the map."

And Roland made a pencil mark on the paper to show the exact spot
where the stoppage occurred.

"What!" exclaimed Bonaparte; "why, it happened less than a mile
and a half from Bourg!"

"Scarcely that, general; that explains why the wounded horse was
taken back to Bourg and died in the stables of the Belle-Alliance."

"Do you hear all these details, sir!" said Bonaparte, addressing
the minister of police.

"Yes, citizen First Consul," answered the latter.

"You know I want this brigandage to stop?"

"I shall use every effort--"

"It's not a question of your efforts, but of its being done."

The minister bowed.

"It is only on that condition," said Bonaparte, "that I shall
admit you are the able man you claim to be."

"I'll help you, citizen," said Roland.

"I did not venture to ask for your assistance," said the minister.

"Yes, but I offer it; don't do anything that we have not planned
together."

The minister looked at Bonaparte.

"Quite right," said Bonaparte; "you can go. Roland will follow
you to the ministry."

Fouché bowed and left the room.

"Now," continued the First Consul, "your honor depends upon your
exterminating these bandits, Roland. In the first place, the
thing is being carried on in your department; and next, they
seem to have some particular grudge against you and your family."

"On the contrary," said Roland, "that's what makes me so furious;
they spare me and my family."

"Let's go over it again, Roland. Every detail is of importance;
it's a war of Bedouins over again."

"Just notice this, general. I spend a night in the Chartreuse of
Seillon, because I have been told that it was haunted by ghosts.
Sure enough, a ghost appears, but a perfectly inoffensive one.
I fire at it twice, and it doesn't even turn around. My mother
is in a diligence that is stopped, and faints away. One of the
robbers pays her the most delicate attentions, bathes her temples
with vinegar, and gives her smelling-salts. My brother Edouard
fights them as best he can; they take him in their arms, kiss
him, and make him all sorts of compliments on his courage; a
little more and they would have given him sugar-plums as a reward
for his gallant conduct. Now, just the reverse; my friend Sir
John follows my example, goes where I have been; he is treated
as a spy and stabbed, as they thought, to death."

"But he didn't die."

"No. On the contrary, he is so well that he wants to marry my
sister."

"Ah ha! Has he asked for her?"

"Officially."

"And you answered?"

"I answered that the matter depended on two persons."

"Your mother and you; that's true."

"No; my sister herself--and you."

"Your sister I understand; but I?"

"Didn't you tell me general, that you would take charge of marrying
her?"

Bonaparte walked up and down the room with his arms crossed;
then, suddenly stopping before Roland, he said: "What is your
Englishman like?"

"You have seen him, general."

"I don't mean physically; all Englishmen are alike--blue eyes,
red hair, white skin, long jaws."

"That's their _th_," said Roland, gravely.

"Their _th_?"

"Yes. Did yon ever learn English, general?"

"Faith! I tried to learn it."

"Your teacher must have told you that the _th_ was sounded
by pressing the tongue against the teeth. Well, by dint of punching
their teeth with their tongues the English have ended by getting
those elongated jaws, which, as you said just now, is one of
the distinctive characteristics of their physiognomy."

Bonaparte looked at Roland to see if that incorrigible jester
were laughing or speaking seriously. Roland was imperturbable.

"Is that your opinion?" said Bonaparte.

"Yes, general, and I think that physiologically it is as good
as any other. I have a lot of opinions like it, which I bring
to light as the occasion offers."

"Come back to your Englishman."

"Certainly, general."

"I asked you what he was like."

"Well, he is a gentleman; very brave, very calm, very impassible,
very noble, very rich, and, moreover--which may not be a
recommendation to you--a nephew of Lord Grenville, prime minister
to his Britannic Majesty."

"What's that?"

"I said, prime minister to his Britannic Majesty."

Bonaparte resumed his walk; then, presently returning to Roland,
he said: "Can I see your Englishman?"

"You know, general, that you can do anything."

"Where is he?"

"In Paris."

"Go find him and bring him here."

Roland was in the habit of obeying without reply; he took his
hat and went toward the door.

"Send Bourrienne to me," said the First Consul, just as Roland
passed into the secretary's room.

Five minutes later Bourrienne appeared.

"Sit down there, Bourrienne," said the First Consul, "and write."

Bourrienne sat down, arranged his paper, dipped his pen in the
ink, and waited.

"Ready?" asked the First Consul, sitting down upon the writing
table, which was another of his habits; a habit that reduced
his secretary to despair, for Bonaparte never ceased swinging
himself back and forth all the time he dictated--a motion that
shook the table as much as if it had been in the middle of the
ocean with a heaving sea.

"I'm ready," replied Bourrienne, who had ended by forcing himself to
endure, with more or less patience, all Bonaparte's eccentricities.

"Then write." And he dictated:

  Bonaparte, First Consul of the Republic, to his Majesty the King
  of Great Britain and Ireland.

  Called by the will of the French nation to the chief magistracy
  of the Republic, I think it proper to inform your Majesty
  personally of this fact.

  Must the war, which for two years has ravaged the four quarters
  of the globe, be perpetuated? Is there no means of staying it?

  How is it that two nations, the most enlightened of Europe,
  more powerful and strong than their own safety and
  independence require; how is it that they sacrifice to their
  ideas of empty grandeur or bigoted antipathies the welfare
  of commerce, eternal prosperity, the happiness of families?
  How is it that they do not recognize that peace is the first
  of needs and the first of a nation's glories?

  These sentiments cannot be foreign to the heart of a king who
  governs a free nation with the sole object of rendering it happy.

  Your Majesty will see in this overture my sincere desire to
  contribute efficaciously, for the second time, to a general
  pacification, by an advance frankly made and free of those
  formalities which, necessary perhaps to disguise the dependence
  of feeble states, only disclose in powerful nations a mutual
  desire to deceive.

  France and England can, for a long time yet, by the abuse of
  their powers, and to the misery of their people, carry on the
  struggle without exhaustion; but, and I dare say it, the fate
  of all the civilized nations depends on the conclusion of a
  war which involves the universe.

Bonaparte paused. "I think that will do," said he. "Read it over,
Bourrienne."

Bourrienne read the letter he had just written. After each paragraph
the First Consul nodded approvingly; and said: "Go on."

Before the last words were fairly uttered, he took the letter
from Bourrienne's hands and signed it with a new pen. It was
a habit of his never to use the same pen twice. Nothing could
be more disagreeable to him than a spot of ink on his fingers.

"That's good," said he. "Seal it and put on the address: 'To Lord
Grenville.'"

Bourrienne did as he was told. At the same moment the noise of
a carriage was heard entering the courtyard of the Luxembourg.
A moment later the door opened and Roland appeared.

"Well?" asked Bonaparte.

"Didn't I tell you you could have anything you wanted, general?"

"Have you brought your Englishman?"

"I met him in the Place de Buci; and, knowing that you don't
like to wait, I caught him just as he was, and made him get into
the carriage. Faith! I thought I should have to drive round to
the Rue Mazarine, and get a guard to bring him. He's in boots
and a frock-coat."

"Let him come in," said Bonaparte.

"Come in, Sir John," cried Roland, turning round.

Lord Tanlay appeared on the threshold. Bonaparte had only to
glance at him to recognize a perfect gentleman. A trifling
emaciation, a slight pallor, gave Sir John the characteristics
of great distinction. He bowed, awaiting the formal introduction,
like the true Englishman he was.

"General," said Roland, "I have the honor to present to you Sir
John Tanlay, who proposed to go to the third cataract for the
purpose of seeing you, but who has, to-day, obliged me to drag
him by the ear to the Luxembourg."

"Come in, my lord; come in," said Bonaparte. "This is not the
first time we have seen each other, nor the first that I have
expressed the wish to know you; there was therefore positive
ingratitude in trying to evade my desire."

"If I hesitated," said Sir John, in excellent French, as usual,
"it was because I could scarcely believe in the honor you do me."

"And besides, very naturally, from national feeling, you detest
me, don't you, like the rest of your countrymen?"

"I must confess, general," answered Sir John, smiling, "that they
have not got beyond admiration."

"And do you share the absurd prejudice that claims that national
honor requires you to hate to-day the enemy who may be a friend
to-morrow?"

"France has been almost a second mother country to me, and my
friend Roland will tell you that I long for the moment when,
of my two countries, the one to which I shall owe the most will
be France."

"Then you ought to see France and England shaking hands for the
good of the world, without repugnance."

"The day when I see that will be a happy day for me."

"If you could contribute to bring it about would you do so?"

"I would risk my life to do it."

"Roland tells me you are a relative of Lord Grenville."

"His nephew."

"Are you on good terms with him?"

"He was very fond of my mother, his eldest sister."

"Have you inherited the fondness he bore your mother?"

"Yes; only I think he holds it in reserve till I return to England."

"Will you deliver a letter for me?"

"To whom?"

"King George III."

"I shall be greatly honored."

"Will you undertake to say to your uncle that which cannot be
written in a letter?"

"Without changing a syllable; the words of General Bonaparte are
history."

"Well, tell him--" but, interrupting himself, he turned to
Bourrienne, saying: "Bourrienne, find me the last letter from
the Emperor of Russia."

Bourrienne opened a box, and, without searching, laid his hand
on a letter that he handed to Bonaparte.

The First Consul cast his eye over the paper and then gave it
to Lord Tanlay.

"Tell him," said he, "first and before all, that you have read
this letter."

Sir John bowed and read as follows:

  CITIZEN FIRST CONSUL--I have received, each armed and newly
  clothed in the uniform of his regiment, the nine thousand
  Russians, made prisoners in Holland, whom you have returned
  to me without ransom, exchange, or condition of any kind.

  This is pure chivalry, and I boast of being chivalrous.

  I think that which I can best offer you in exchange for this
  magnificent present, citizen First Consul, is my friendship.
  Will you accept it?

  As an earnest of that friendship, I am sending his passports
  to Lord Whitworth, the British Ambassador to Saint Petersburg.

  Furthermore, if you will be, I do not say my second, but my
  witness, I will challenge personally every king who will not
  take part against England and close his ports to her.

  I begin with my neighbor the King of Denmark, and you will
  find in the "Gazette de la Cour" the ultimatum I have sent him.

  What more can I say to you? Nothing, unless it be that you and
  I together can give laws to the world.

  I am your admirer and sincere friend,  PAUL.

Lord Tanlay turned to the First Consul. "Of course you know,"
said he, "that the Emperor of Russia is mad."

"Is it that letter that makes you think so, my lord?" asked
Bonaparte.

"No; but it confirms my opinion."

"It was a madman who gave Henry VI. of Lancaster the crown of
Saint-Louis, and the blazon of England still bears--until I scratch
them out with my sword--the fleur-de-lis of France."

Sir John smiled; his national pride revolted at this assumption
in the conqueror of the Pyramids.

"But," said Bonaparte, "that is not the question to-day; everything
in its own time."

"Yes," murmured Sir John, "we are too near Aboukir."

"Oh, I shall never defeat you at sea," said Bonaparte; "it would
take fifty years to make France a maritime nation; but over there,"
and he motioned with his hand to the East, "at the present moment,
I repeat, that the question is not war but peace. I must have
peace to accomplish my dream, and, above all, peace with England.
You see, I play aboveboard; I am strong enough to speak frankly.
If the day ever comes when a diplomatist tells the truth, he will
be the first diplomatist in the world; for no one will believe
him, and he will attain, unopposed, his ends."

"Then I am to tell my uncle that you desire peace."

"At the same time letting him know that I do not fear war. If
I can't ally myself with King George, I can, as you see, do so
with the Emperor Paul; but Russia has not reached that point
of civilization that I desire in an ally."

"A tool is sometimes more useful than an ally."

"Yes; but, as you said, the Emperor is mad, and it is better to
disarm than to arm a madman. I tell you that two nations like
France and England ought to be inseparable friends or relentless
enemies; friends, they are the poles of the world, balancing its
movements with perfect equilibrium; enemies, one must destroy
the other and become the world's sole axis."

"But suppose Lord Grenville, not doubting your genius, still
doubts your power; if he holds the opinion of our poet Coleridge,
that our island needs no rampart, no bulwark, other than the
raucous murmur of the ocean, what shall I tell him?"

"Unroll the map of the world, Bourrienne," said Bonaparte.

Bourrienne unrolled a map; Bonaparte stepped over to it.

"Do you see those two rivers?" said he, pointing to the Volga
and the Danube. "That's the road to India," he added.

"I thought Egypt was, general," said Sir John.

"So did I for a time; or, rather, I took it because I had no
other. But the Czar opens this one; your government can force
me to take it. Do you follow me?"

"Yes; citizen; go on."

"Well, if England forces me to fight her, if I am obliged to
accept this alliance with Catherine's successor, this is what I
shall do: I shall embark forty thousand Russians on the Volga;
I shall send them down the river to Astrakhan; they will cross
the Caspian and await me at Asterabad."

Sir John bowed in sign of deep attention. Bonaparte continued:
"I shall embark forty thousand Frenchmen on the Danube."

"Excuse me, citizen First Consul, but the Danube is an Austrian
river."

"I shall have taken Vienna."

Sir John stared at Bonaparte.

"I shall have taken Vienna," continued the latter. "I shall then
embark forty thousand Frenchmen on the Danube; I find Russian
vessels at its mouth ready to transport them to Taganrog; I march
them by land along the course of the Don to Pratisbianskaïa,
whence they move to Tzaritsin; there they descend the Volga in
the same vessels that have transported the forty thousand Russians
to Asterabad; fifteen days later I have eighty thousand men in
western Persia. From Asterabad, these united corps will march to
the Indus; Persia, the enemy of England, is our natural ally."

"Yes; but once in the Punjab, the Persian alliance will do you
no good; and an army of eighty thousand men cannot drag its
provisions along with it."

"You forget one thing," said Bonaparte, as if the expedition were
already under way, "I have left bankers at Teheran and Caboul.
Now, remember what happened nine years ago in Lord Cornwallis' war
with Tippo Saïb. The commander-in-chief fell short of provisions,
and a simple captain--I forget his name."

"Captain Malcolm," said Lord Tanlay.

"That's it!" cried Bonaparte. "You know the story! Captain Malcolm
had recourse to the Brinjaries, those Bohemians of India, who
cover the whole Hindostan peninsula with their encampments, and
control the grain supplies. Well, those Bohemians are faithful
to the last penny to those who pay them; they will feed me."

"You must cross the Indus."

"What of that!" exclaimed Bonaparte, "I have a hundred and eighty
miles of bank between Déra-Ismaël-Khan and Attok to choose from.
I know the Indus as well as I do the Seine. It is a slow current
flowing about three miles an hour; its medium depth is, I should
say, at the point I mentioned, from twelve to fifteen feet, and
there are ten or more fords on the line of my operations."

"Then your line is already traced out?" asked Sir John smiling.

"Yes, in so far as it follows a broad uninterrupted stretch of
fertile, well-watered provinces; that I avoid the sandy deserts
which separate the lower valley of the Indus from Rajputana;
and also that I follow the general bases of all invasions of
India that have had any success, from Mahmoud of Ghazni, in the
year 1000, to Nadir Shah, in 1739. And how many have taken the
route I mean to take between the two epochs! Let us count them.
After Mahmoud of Ghazni came Mohammed Ghori, in 1184, with one
hundred and twenty thousand men; after him, Timur Tang, or Timur
the Lame, whom we call Tamerlane, with sixty thousand men; after
Tamerlane, Babar; after Babar, Humajan, and how many more I can't
remember. Why, India is there for whoever will go and take it!"

"You forget, citizen First Consul, that all the conquerors you
have named had only the aboriginal populations to deal with,
whereas you have the English. We hold India--"

"With from twenty to twenty-two thousand men."

"And a hundred thousand Sepoys."

"I have counted them all, and I regard England and India, the
one with the respect, the other with the contempt, they merit.
Wherever I meet European infantry, I prepare a second, a third,
and if necessary, a fourth line of reserves, believing that the
first three might give way before the British bayonets; but wherever
I find the Sepoys, I need only the postilion's whip to scatter
the rabble. Have you any other questions to put to me, my lord?"

"One, citizen First Consul: are you sincerely desirous of peace?"

"Here is the letter in which I ask it of your king, my lord,
and it is to be quite sure that it reaches his Britannic Majesty
that I ask Lord Grenville's nephew to be my messenger."

"It shall be done as you desire, citizen; and were I the uncle,
instead of the nephew, I should promise more."

"When can you start?"

"In an hour I shall be gone."

"You have no wish to express to me before leaving?"

"None. In any case, if I have any, I leave my affairs to my friend,
Roland."

"Shake hands with me, my lord; it will be a good omen, as you
represent England and I France."

Sir John accepted the honor done him by Bonaparte, with the exact
measure of cordiality that indicated both his sympathy for France,
and his mental reserves for the honor of his own nation.

Then, having pressed Roland's hand with fraternal effusion, he
bowed again to the First Consul and went out. Bonaparte followed
him reflectively with his eyes; then he said suddenly: "Roland,
I not only consent to your sister's marriage with Lord Tanlay,
but I wish it. Do you understand? _I wish it_."

He laid such emphasis upon those three words, that to any one
who knew him they signified plainly, not "I wish," but "I will."

The tyranny was sweet to Roland, and he accepted it with grateful
thanks.




CHAPTER XXXVIII

THE TWO SIGNALS

Let us now relate what happened at the Château des Noires-Fontaines
three days after the events we have just described took place
in Paris.

Since the successive departures of Roland, then Madame de Montrevel
and her son, and finally Sir John--Roland to rejoin his general,
Madame de Montrevel to place Edouard in school, and Sir John to
acquaint Roland with his matrimonial plans--Amélie had remained
alone with Charlotte at the Château des Noires-Fontaines. We
say _alone_, because Michel and his son Jacques did not
live in the house, but in the little lodge at the gate where he
added the duties of porter to those of gardener.

It therefore happened that at night all the windows, excepting
those of Amélie, which, as we have said, were on the first floor
overlooking the garden, and that of Charlotte in the attic, were
left in darkness.

Madame de Montrevel had taken the second chambermaid with her.
The two young girls were perhaps rather isolated in their part of
the house, which consisted of a dozen bedrooms on three floors,
especially at a time when so many rumors of robberies on the
highroads reached them. Michel, therefore, proposed to his young
mistress that he sleep in the main building, so as to be near
her in case of need. But she, in a firm voice, assured him that
she felt no fear, and desired no change in the customary routine
of the château.

Michel did not insist, and retired, saying that Mademoiselle
might, in any case, sleep in peace, for he and Jacques would make
the rounds of the house during the night.

Amélie at first seemed anxious about those rounds; but she soon
noticed that Michel and Jacques contented themselves with watching
on the edge of the forest of Seillon, and the frequent appearance
of a jugged hare, or a haunch of venison on the table, proved
to her that Michel kept his word regarding the promised rounds.

She therefore ceased to trouble about Michel's rounds, which
were always on the side of the house opposite to that where she
feared them.

Now, as we have said, three days after the events we have just
related, or, to speak more correctly, during the night following
the third day, those who were accustomed to see no light save in
Amélie's windows on the first floor and Charlotte's on the third,
might have observed with surprise that, from eleven o'clock until
midnight, the four windows on the first floor were illuminated. It
is true that each was lighted by a single wax-candle. They might
also have seen the figure of a young girl through the shades,
staring in the direction of the village of Ceyzeriat.

This young girl was Amélie, pale, breathing with difficulty, and
seeming to watch anxiously for a signal.

At the end of a few minutes she wiped her forehead and drew a
joyous breath. A fire was lighted in the direction she had been
watching. Then she passed from room to room, putting out the
three candles one after the other, leaving only the one which
was burning in her own room. As if the fire awaited this return
signal, it was now extinguished.

Amélie sat down by her window and remained motionless, her eyes
fixed on the garden. The night was dark, without moon or stars,
and yet at the end of a quarter of an hour she saw, or rather
divined, a shadow crossing the lawn and approaching the window.
She placed her single candle in the furthest corner of her room,
and returned to open her window.

He whom she was awaiting was already on the balcony.

As on the first night when we saw him climb it, the young man
put his arm around the girl's waist and drew her into the room.
She made but slight resistance; her hand sought the cord of the
Venetian blind, unfastened it from the hook that held it, and
let it fall with more noise than prudence would have counselled.

Behind the blind, she closed the window; then she fetched the candle
from the corner where she had hidden it. The light illuminated her
face, and the young man gave a cry of alarm, for it was covered
with tears.

"What has happened?" he asked.

"A great misfortune!" replied the young girl.

"Oh, I feared it when I saw the signal by which you recalled me
after receiving me last night. But is it irreparable?"

"Almost," answered Amélie.

"I hope, at least, that it threatens only me."

"It threatens us both."

The young man passed his hand over his brow to wipe away the sweat
that covered it.

"Tell me," said he; "you know I am strong."

"If you have the strength to hear it," said she, "I have none
to tell it." Then, taking a letter from the chimney-piece, she
added: "Read that; that is what I received by the post to-night."

The young man took the letter, opened it, and glanced hastily
at the signature.

"From Madame de Montrevel," said he.

"Yes, with a postscript from Roland."

The young man read:

  MY DEAREST DAUGHTER--I hope that the news I announce will give
  you as much joy as it has already given our dear Roland and me.
  Sir John, whose heart you doubted, claiming that it was only a
  mechanical contrivance, manufactured in the workshops at
  Vaucanson, admits that such an opinion was a just one until the
  day he saw you; but he maintains that since that day he has a
  heart, and that that heart adores you.

  Did you suspect it, my dear Amélie, from his aristocratic and
  polished manners, when your mother's eyes failed to discern this
  tenderness.

  This morning, while breakfasting with your brother, he formally
  asked your hand. Your brother received the offer with joy, but
  he made no promises at first. The First Consul, before Roland's
  departure for the Vendée, had already spoken of making himself
  responsible for your establishment. But since then he has asked to
  see Lord Tanlay, and Sir John, though he maintained his national
  reserve, was taken into the first Consul's good graces at once, to
  such a degree that he received from him, at their first interview,
  a mission to his uncle, Lord Grenville. Sir John started for
  England immediately.

  I do not know how many days Sir John will be absent, but on his
  return he is certain to present himself to you as your betrothed.

  Lord Tanlay is still young, pleasing in appearance, and immensely
  rich; he is highly connected in England, and Roland's friend. I
  do not know a man who has more right, I will not say to your love,
  but to your profound esteem.

  The rest of my news I can tell you in two words. The First Consul
  is still most kind to me and to your two brothers, and Madame
  Bonaparte has let me know that she only awaits your marriage to
  place you near her.

  There is talk of leaving the Luxembourg, and removing to the
  Tuileries. Do you understand the full meaning of this change of
  domicile?

  Your mother, who loves you,
  CLOTILDE DE MONTREVEL.

Without pausing, the young man turned to Roland's postscript.
It was as follows:

  You have read, my dear little sister, what our good mother has
  written. This marriage is a suitable one under all aspects. It
  is not a thing to be childish about; the First Consul _wishes_
  you to become Lady Tanlay; that is to say, he _wills_ it.

  I am leaving Paris for a few days. Though you may not see me,
  you will hear of me.

  I kiss you, ROLAND.

"Well, Charles," asked Amélie, when the young man had finished
reading, "what do you think of that?"

"That it is something we had to expect from day to day, my poor
angel, but it is none the less terrible."

"What is to be done?"

"There are three things we can do."

"Tell me."

"In the first place, resist if you have the strength; it is the
shortest and surest way."

Amélie dropped her head.

"You will never dare, will you?"

"Never."

"And yet you are my wife, Amélie; a priest has blessed our union."

"But they say that marriage before a priest is null before the law."

"Is it not enough for you, the wife of a proscribed man?" asked
Morgan, his voice trembling as he spoke.

Amélie flung herself into his arms.

"But my mother," said she; "our marriage did not have her presence
and blessing."

"Because there were too many risks to run, and we wished to run
them alone."

"But that man--Did you notice that my brother says he _wills_
it?"

"Oh, if you loved me, Amélie, that man would see that he may
change the face of the State, carry war from one end of the world
to the other, make laws, build a throne, but that he cannot force
lips to say yes when the heart says no."

"If I loved you!" said Amélie, in a tone of soft reproach. "It
is midnight, you are here in my room, I weep in your arms--I, the
daughter of General de Montrevel and the sister of Roland--and
you say, 'If you loved me.'"

"I was wrong, I was wrong, my darling Amélie. Yes, I know that
you were brought up in adoration of that man; you cannot understand
that any one should resist him, and whoever does resist him is
a rebel in your eyes."

"Charles, you said there were three things that we could do. What
is the second?"

"Accept apparently the marriage they propose to you, and gain
time, by delaying under various pretexts. The man is not immortal."

"No; but is too young for us to count on his death. The third
way, dear friend?"

"Fly--but that is a last resource, Amélie; there are two objections:
first, your repugnance."

"I am yours, Charles; I will surmount my repugnance."

"And," added the young man, "my engagements."

"Your engagements?"

"My companions are bound to me, Amélie; but I, too, am bound to
them. We also have a man to whom we have sworn obedience. That
man is the future king of France. If you accept your brother's
devotion to Bonaparte, accept ours to Louis XVIII."

Amélie let her face drop into her hands with a sigh.

"Then," said she, "we are lost."

"Why so? On various pretexts, your health above all, you can gain
a year. Before the year is out Bonaparte will probably be forced
to begin another war in Italy. A single defeat will destroy his
prestige; in short, a great many things can happen in a year."

"Did you read Roland's postscript, Charles?"

"Yes; but I didn't see anything in it that was not in your mother's
letter."

"Read the last sentence again." And Amélie placed the letter before
him. He read:

  I am leaving Paris for a few days; though you may not see me,
  you will hear of me.

"Well?"

"Do you know what that means?"

"No."

"It means that Roland is in pursuit of you."

"What does that matter? He cannot die by the hand of any of us."

"But you, unhappy man, you can die by his!"

"Do you think I should care so very much if he killed me, Amélie?"

"Oh! even in my gloomiest moments I never thought of that."

"So you think your brother is on the hunt for us?"

"I am sure of it."

"What makes you so certain?"

"Because he swore over Sir John's body, when he thought him dead,
to avenge him."

"If he had died," exclaimed the young man, bitterly, "we should
not be where we are, Amélie."

"God saved him, Charles; it was therefore good that he did not die."

"For us?"

"I cannot fathom the ways of the Lord. I tell you, my beloved
Charles, beware of Roland; Roland is close by."

Charles smiled incredulously.

"I tell you that he is not only near here, but he has been seen."

"He has been seen! Where? Who saw him?"

"Who saw him?"

"Yes."

"Charlotte, my maid, the jailer's daughter. She asked permission
to visit her parents yesterday, Sunday; you were coming, so I
told her she could stay till this morning."

"Well?"

"She therefore spent the night with her parents. At eleven o'clock
the captain of the gendarmerie brought in some prisoners. While
they were locking them up, a man, wrapped in a cloak, came in
and asked for the captain. Charlotte thought she recognized the
new-comer's voice. She looked at him attentively; his cloak slipped
from his face, and she saw that it was my brother,"

The young man made a movement.

"Now do you understand, Charles? My brother comes to Bourg,
mysteriously, without letting me know; he asks for the captain
of the gendarmerie, follows him into the prison, speaks only
to him, and disappears. Is that not a threatening outlook for
our love? Tell me, Charles!"

As Amélie spoke, a dark cloud spread slowly over her lover's face.

"Amélie," said he, "when my companions and I bound ourselves
together, we did not deceive ourselves as to the risks we ran."

"But, at least," said Amélie, "you have changed your place of
refuge; you have abandoned the Chartreuse of Seillon?"

"None but our dead are there now."

"Is the grotto of Ceyzeriat perfectly safe?"

"As safe as any refuge can be that has two exit."

"The Chartreuse of Seillon had two exits; yet, as you say, you
left your dead there."

"The dead are safer than the living; they are sure not to die
on the scaffold."

Amélie felt a shudder go through her.

"Charles!" she murmured.

"Listen," said the young man. "God is my witness, and you too, that
I have always put laughter and gayety between your presentiments
and my fears; but to-day the aspect of things has changed; we are
coming face to face with the crisis. Whatever the end brings
us, it is approaching. I do not ask of you, my Amélie, those
selfish, unreasonable things that lovers in danger of death exact
from their mistresses; I do not ask you to bind your heart to
the dead, your love to a corpse--"

"Friend," said the young girl, laying her hand on his arm, "take
care; you are doubting me."

"No; I do you the highest honor in leaving you free to accomplish
the sacrifice to its full extent; but I do not want you to be
bound by an oath; no tie shall fetter you."

"So be it," said Amélie.

"What I ask of you," continued the young man, "and I ask you
to swear it on our love, which has been, alas! so fatal to you,
is this: if I am arrested and disarmed, if I am imprisoned and
condemned to death, I implore you, Amélie, I exact of you, that
in some way you will send me arms, not only for myself, but for
my companions also, so that we may still be masters of our lives."

"But in such a case, Charles, may I not tell all to my brother?
May I not appeal to his tenderness; to the generosity of the
First Consul?"

Before the young girl had finished, her lover seized her violently
by the wrist.

"Amélie," said he, "it is no longer one promise I ask of you,
there are two. Swear to me, in the first place, and above all
else, that you will not solicit my pardon. Swear it, Amélie;
swear it!"

"Do I need to swear, dear?" asked the young girl, bursting into
tears. "I promise it."

"Promise it on the hour when I first said I loved you, on the
hour when you answered that I was loved!"

"On your life, on mine, on the past, on the future, on our smiles,
on our tears."

"I should die in any case, you see, Amélie, even though I had to
beat my brains out against the wall; but I should die dishonored."

"I promise you, Charles."

"Then for my second request, Amélie: if we are taken and condemned,
send me arms--arms or poison, the means of dying, any means. Coming
from you, death would be another joy."

"Far or near, free or a prisoner, living or dead, you are my master,
I am your slave; order and I obey."

"That is all, Amélie; it is simple and clear, you see, no pardon,
and the means of death."

"Simple and clear, but terrible."

"You will do it, will you not?"

"You wish me to?"

"I implore you."

"Order or entreaty, Charles, your will shall be done."

The young man held the girl, who seemed on the verge of fainting,
in his left arm, and approached his mouth to hers. But, just
as their lips were about to touch, an owl's cry was heard, so
close to the window that Amélie started and Charles raised his
head. The cry was repeated a second time, and then a third.

"Ah!" murmured Amélie, "do you hear that bird of ill-omen? We
are doomed, my friend."

But Charles shook his head.

"That is not an owl, Amélie," he said; "it is the call of our
companions. Put out the light."

Amélie blew it out while her lover opened the window.

"Even here," she murmured; "they seek you even here!"

"It is our friend and confidant, the Comte de Jayat; no one else
knows where I am." Then, leaning from the balcony, he asked:
"Is it you, Montbar?"

"Yes; is that you, Morgan?"

"Yes."

A man came from behind a clump of trees.

"News from Paris; not an instant to lose; a matter of life and
death to us all."

"Do you hear, Amélie?"

Taking the young girl in his arms, he pressed her convulsively
to his heart.

"Go," she said, in a faint voice, "go. Did you not hear him say
it was a matter of life and death for all of you?"

"Farewell, my Amélie, my beloved, farewell!"

"Oh! don't say farewell."

"No, no; au revoir!"

"Morgan, Morgan!" cried the voice of the man waiting below in
the garden.

The young man pressed his lips once more to Amélie's; then, rushing
to the window, he sprang over the balcony at a bound and joined
his friend.

Amélie gave a cry, and ran to the balustrade; but all she saw
was two moving shadows entering the deepening shadows of the
fine old trees that adorned the park.




CHAPTER XXXIX

THE GROTTO OF CEYZERIAT

The two young men plunged into the shadow of the trees. Morgan
guided his companion, less familiar than he with the windings
of the park, until they reached the exact spot where he was in
the habit of scaling the wall. It took but an instant for both
of them to accomplish that feat. The next moment they were on
the banks of the Reissouse.

A boat was fastened to the foot of a willow; they jumped into
it, and three strokes of the oar brought them to the other side.
There a path led along the bank of the river to a little wood
which extends from Ceyzeriat to Etrez, a distance of about nine
miles, and thus forms, on the other side of the river, a pendant
to the forest of Seillon.

On reaching the edge of the wood they stopped. Until then they
had been walking as rapidly as it was possible to do without
running, and neither of them had uttered a word. The whole way
was deserted; it was probable, in fact certain, that no one had
seen them. They could breathe freely.

"Where are the Companions?" asked Morgan.

"In the grotto," replied Montbar.

"Why don't we go there at once?"

"Because we shall find one of them at the foot of that beech,
who will tell us if we can go further without danger."

"Which one?"

"D'Assas."

A shadow came from behind the tree.

"Here I am," it said.

"Ah! there you are," exclaimed the two young men.

"Anything new?" inquired Montbar.

"Nothing; they are waiting for you to come to a decision."

"In that case, let us hurry."

The three young men continued on their way. After going about
three hundred yards, Montbar stopped again, and said softly:
"Armand!"

The dry leaves rustled at the call, and a fourth shadow stepped
from behind a clump of trees, and approached his companions.

"Anything new?" asked Montbar.

"Yes; a messenger from Cadoudal."

"The same one who came before?"

"Yes."

"Where is he?"

"With the brothers, in the grotto."

"Come."

Montbar rushed on ahead; the path had grown so narrow that the
four young men could only walk in single file. It rose for about
five hundred paces with an easy but winding slope. Coming to an
opening, Montbar stopped and gave, three times, the same owl's
cry with which he had called Morgan. A single hoot answered him;
then a man slid down from the branches of a bushy oak. It was
the sentinel who guarded the entrance to the grotto, which was
not more than thirty feet from the oak. The position of the trees
surrounding it made it almost impossible of detection.

The sentinel exchanged a few whispered words with Montbar, who
seemed, by fulfilling the duties of leader, desirous of leaving
Morgan entirely to his thoughts. Then, as his watch was probably
not over, the bandit climbed the oak again, and was soon so
completely blended with the body of the tree that those he had
left might have looked for him in vain in that aerial bastion.

The glade became narrower as they neared the entrance to the
grotto. Montbar reached it first, and from a hiding-place known
to him he took a flint, a steel, some tinder, matches, and a
torch. The sparks flew, the tinder caught fire, the match cast a
quivering bluish flame, to which succeeded the crackling, resinous
flames of the torch.

Three or four paths were then visible. Montbar took one without
hesitation. The path sank, winding into the earth, and turned
back upon itself, as if the young men were retracing their steps
underground, along the path that had brought them. It was evident
that they were following the windings of an ancient quarry, probably
the one from which were built, nineteen hundred years earlier,
the three Roman towns which are now mere villages, and Cæsar's
camp which overlooked them.

At intervals this subterraneous path was cut entirely across by
a deep ditch, impassable except with the aid of a plank, that
could, with a kick, be precipitated into the hollow beneath. Also,
from place to place, breastworks could still be seen, behind
which men could intrench themselves and fire without exposing
their persons to the sight or fire of the enemy. Finally, at
five hundred yards from the entrance, a barricade of the height
of a man presented a final obstacle to those who sought to enter
a circular space in which ten or a dozen men were now seated
or lying around, some reading, others playing cards.

Neither the readers nor the players moved at the noise made by
the new-comers, or at the gleam of their light playing upon the
walls of the quarry, so certain were they that none but friends
could reach this spot, guarded as it was.

For the rest, the scene of this encampment was extremely picturesque;
wax candles were burning in profusion (the Companions of Jehu
were too aristocratic to make use of any other light) and cast
their reflection upon stands of arms of all kinds, among which
double-barrelled muskets and pistols held first place. Foils
and masks were hanging here and there upon the walls; several
musical instruments were lying about, and a few mirrors in gilt
frames proclaimed the fact that dress was a pastime by no means
unappreciated by the strange inhabitants of that subterranean
dwelling.

They all seemed as tranquil as though the news which had drawn
Morgan from Amélie's arms was unknown to them, or considered
of no importance.

Nevertheless, when the little group from outside approached,
and the words: "The captain! the captain!" were heard, all rose,
not with the servility of soldiers toward their approaching chief,
but with the affectionate deference of strong and intelligent
men for one stronger and more intelligent than they.

Then Morgan shook his head, raised his eyes, and, passing before
Montbar, advanced to the centre of the circle which had formed
at his appearance, and said:

"Well, friends, it seems you have had some news."

"Yes, captain," answered a voice; "the police of the First Consul
does us the honor to be interested in us."

"Where is the messenger?" asked Morgan.

"Here," replied a young man, wearing the livery of a cabinet courier,
who was still covered with mud and dust.

"Have you any despatches?"

"Written, no, verbal, yes."

"Where do they come from?"

"The private office of the minister of police."

"Can they be trusted?"

"I'll answer for them; they are positively official,"

("It's a good thing to have friends everywhere," observed Montbar,
parenthetically.)

"Especially near M. Fouché," resumed Morgan; "let us hear the
news."

"Am I to tell it aloud, or to you privately?"

"I presume we are all interested, so tell it aloud."

"Well, the First Consul sent for citizen Fouché at the Louvre,
and lectured him on our account."

"Capital! what next?"

"Citizen Fouché replied that we were clever scamps, very difficult
to find, and still more difficult to capture when we had been
found, in short, he praised us highly."

"Very amiable of him. What next?"

"Next, the First Consul replied that that did not concern him,
that we were brigands, and that it was our brigandage which
maintained the war in Vendée, and that the day we ceased sending
money to Brittany there would be no more Brittany."

"Excellent reasoning, it seems to me."

"He said the West must be fought in the East and the Midi."

"Like England in India."

"Consequently he gave citizen Fouché full powers, and, even if
it cost a million and he had to kill five hundred men, he must
have our heads."

"Well, he knows his man when he makes his demand; remains to be
seen if we let him have them."

"So citizen Fouché went home furious, and vowed that before eight
days passed there should not be a single Companion of Jehu left
in France."

"The time is short."

"That same day couriers started for Lyons, Mâcon, Sons-le-Saulnier,
Besançon and Geneva, with orders to the garrison commanders to
do personally all they could for our destruction; but above all
to obey unquestioningly M. Roland de Montrevel, aide-de-camp
to the First Consul, and to put at his disposal as many troops
as he thought needful."

"And I can add," said Morgan, "that M. Roland de Montrevel is
already in the field. He had a conference with the captain of
the gendarmerie, in the prison at Bourg, yesterday."

"Does any one know why?" asked a voice.

"The deuce!" said another, "to engage our cells."

"Do you still mean to protect him?" asked d'Assas.

"More than ever."

"Ah! that's too much!" muttered a voice.

"Why so," retorted Morgan imperiously, "isn't it my right as a
Companion?"

"Certainly," said two other voices.

"Then I use it; both as a Companion and as your leader."

"But suppose in the middle of the fray a stray ball should take
him?" said a voice.

"Then, it is not a right I claim, nor an order that I give, but
an entreaty I make. My friends, promise me, on your honor, that
the life of Roland de Montrevel will be sacred to you."

With unanimous voice, all stretching out their hands, they replied:
"We swear on our honor!"

"Now," resumed Morgan, "let us look at our position under its
true aspect, without deluding ourselves in any way. Once an
intelligent police force starts out to pursue us, and makes actual
war against us, it will be impossible for us to resist. We may
trick them like a fox, or double like a boar, but our resistance
will be merely a matter of time, that's all. At least that is
my opinion."

Morgan questioned his companions with his eyes, and their
acquiescence was unanimous, though it was with a smile on their
lips that they recognized their doom. But that was the way in
those strange days. Men went to their death without fear, and
they dealt it to others without emotion.

"And now," asked Montbar, "have you anything further to say?"

"Yes," replied Morgan, "I have to add that nothing is easier
than to procure horses, or even to escape on foot; we are all
hunters and more or less mountaineers. It will take us six hours
on horse back to get out of France, or twelve on foot. Once in
Switzerland we can snap our fingers at citizen Fouché and his
police. That's all I have to say."

"It would be very amusing to laugh at citizen Fouché," said Montbar,
"but very dull to leave France."

"For that reason, I shall not put this extreme measure to a vote
until after we have talked with Cadoudal's messenger."

"Ah, true," exclaimed two or three voices; "the Breton! where
is the Breton?"

"He was asleep when I left," said Montbar.

"And he is still sleeping," said Adler, pointing to a man lying
on a heap of straw in a recess of the grotto.

They wakened the Breton, who rose to his knees, rubbing his eyes
with one hand and feeling for his carbine with the other.

"You are with friends," said a voice; "don't be afraid."

"Afraid!" said the Breton; "who are you, over there, who thinks
I am afraid?"

"Some one who probably does not know what fear is, my dear
Branche-d'Or," said Morgan, who recognized in Cadoudal's messenger
the same man whom they had received at the Chartreuse the night
he himself arrived from Avignon. "I ask pardon on his behalf."

Branche-d'Or looked at the young men before him with an air that
left no doubt of his repugnance for a certain sort of pleasantry;
but as the group had evidently no offensive intention, their
gayety having no insolence about it, he said, with a tolerably
gracious air: "Which of you gentlemen is captain? I have a letter
for him from my captain."

Morgan advanced a step and said: "I am."

"Your name?"

"I have two."

"Your fighting name?"

"Morgan."

"Yes, that's the one the general told me; besides, I recognize
you. You gave me a bag containing sixty thousand francs the night
I saw the monks. The letter is for you then."

"Give it to me."

The peasant took off his hat, pulled out the lining, and from
between it and the felt he took a piece of paper which resembled
another lining, and seemed at first sight to be blank. Then, with
a military salute, he offered the paper to Morgan, who turned it
over and over and could see no writing; at least none was apparent.

"A candle," he said.

They brought a wax light; Morgan held the paper to the flame.
Little by little, as the paper warmed, the writing appeared.
The experience appeared familiar to the young men; the Breton
alone seemed surprised. To his naive mind the operation probably
seemed like witchcraft; but so long as the devil was aiding the
royalist cause the Chouan was willing to deal with him.

"Gentlemen," said Morgan, "do you want to know what the master
says?"

All bowed and listened, while the young man read:

  MY DEAR MORGAN--If you hear that I have abandoned the cause, and
  am in treaty with the government of the First Consul and the
  Vendéan leaders, do not believe it. I am a Breton of Brittany,
  and consequently as stubborn as a true Breton. The First Consul
  sent one of his aides-de-camp to offer me an amnesty for all my
  men, and the rank of colonel for myself. I have not even consulted
  my men, I refused for them and for me.

  Now, all depends on us; as we receive from the princes neither
  money nor encouragement, you are our only treasurer; close your
  coffers, or rather cease to open those of the government for us,
  and the royalist opposition, the heart of which beats only in
  Brittany, will subside little by little, and end before long.

  I need not tell you that my life will have ended first.

  Our mission is dangerous; probably it will cost us our heads; but
  what can be more glorious than to hear posterity say of us, if
  one can hear beyond the grave: "All others despaired; but they,
  never!"

  One of us will survive the other, but only to succumb later. Let
  that survivor say as he dies: _Etiamsi omnes, ego non._

  Count on me as I count on you.   CADOUDAL.

  P.S.--You know that you can safely give Branche-d'Or all the money
  you have for the Cause. He has promised me not to let himself be
  taken, and I trust his word.

A murmur of enthusiasm ran through the group, as Morgan finished
the last words of the letter.

"You have heard it, gentlemen?" he said.

"Yes, yes, yes," repeated every voice.

"In the first place, how much money have we to give to Branche-d'Or?"

"Thirteen thousand francs from the Lake of Silans, twenty-two
thousand from Les Carronnières, fourteen thousand from Meximieux,
forty-nine thousand in all," said one of the group.

"You hear, Branche-d'Or?" said Morgan; "it is not much--only
half what we gave you last time, but you know the proverb: 'The
handsomest girl in the world can only give what she has.'"

"The general knows what you risk to obtain this money, and he
says that, no matter how little you send, he will receive it
gratefully."

"All the more, that the next will be better," said a young man
who had just joined the group, unperceived, so absorbed were
all present in Cadoudal's letter. "More especially if we say two
words to the mail-coach from Chambéry next Saturday."

"Ah! is that you, Valensolle?" said Morgan.

"No real names, if you please, baron; let us be shot, guillotined,
drawn and quartered, but save our family honor. My name is Adler;
I answer to no other."

"Pardon me, I did wrong--you were saying?"

"That the mail-coach from Paris to Chambéry will pass through
Chapelle-de-Guinchay and Belleville next Saturday, carrying fifty
thousand francs of government money to the monks of Saint-Bernard;
to which I may add that there is between those two places a spot
called the Maison-Blanche, which seems to me admirably adapted
for an ambuscade."

"What do you say, gentlemen?" asked Morgan, "Shall we do citizen
Fouché the honor to worry about his police? Shall we leave France?
Or shall we still remain faithful Companions of Jehu?"

There was but one reply--"We stay."

"Right!" said Morgan. "Brothers, I recognize you there. Cadoudal
points out our duty in that admirable letter we have just received.
Let us adopt his heroic motto: _Etiamsi omnes, ego non._" Then
addressing the peasant, he said, "Branche-d'Or, the forty-nine
thousand francs are at your disposal; you can start when you
like. Promise something better next time, in our name, and tell
the general for me that, wherever he goes, even though it be to
the scaffold, I shall deem it an honor to follow, or to precede
him. Au revoir, Branche-d'Or." Then, turning to the young man who
seemed so anxious to preserve his incognito, "My dear Adler,"
he said, like a man who has recovered his gayety, lost for an
instant, "I undertake to feed and lodge you this night, if you
will deign to accept me as a host."

"Gratefully, friend Morgan," replied the new-comer. "Only let
me tell you that I could do without a bed, for I am dropping
with fatigue, but not without supper, for I am dying of hunger."

"You shall have a good bed and an excellent supper."

"Where must I go for them."

"Follow me."

"I'm ready."

"Then come on. Good-night, gentlemen! Are you on watch, Montbar?"

"Yes."

"Then we can sleep in peace."

So saying, Morgan passed his arm through that of his friend,
took a torch in his other hand, and passed into the depths of
the grotto, where we will follow him if our readers are not too
weary of this long session.

It was the first time that Valensolle, who came, as we have said,
from the neighborhood of Aix, had had occasion to visit the grotto
of Ceyzeriat, recently adopted as the meeting-place of the Companions
of Jehu. At the preceding meetings he had occasion to explore
only the windings and intricacies of the Chartreuse of Seillon,
which he now knew so well that in the farce played before Roland
the part of ghost was intrusted to him. Everything was, therefore,
curious and unknown to him in this new domicile, where he now
expected to take his first sleep, and which seemed likely to be,
for some days at least, Morgan's headquarters.

As is always the case in abandoned quarries--which, at the first
glance, partake somewhat of the character of subterranean cities--the
different galleries excavated by the removal of the stone end in a
cul de sac; that is to say, at a point in the mine where the work
stops. One of these streets seemed to prolong itself indefinitely.
Nevertheless, there came a point where the mine would naturally
have ended, but there, in the angle of the tunnelled way, was
cut (For what purpose? The thing remains a mystery to this day
among the people of the neigbborhood) an opening two-thirds the
width of the gallery, wide enough, or nearly so, to give passage
to two men abreast.

The two friends passed through this opening. The air there became
so rarefied that their torch threatened to go out at every step.
Vallensolle felt drops of ice-cold water falling on his hands
and face.

"Bless me," said he, "does it rain down here?"

"No," replied Morgan, laughing; "only we are passing under the
Reissouse."

"Then we are going to Bourg?"

"That's about it."

"All right; you are leading me; you have promised me supper and
a bed, so I have nothing to worry about--unless that light goes
out," added the young man, looking at the paling flame of the
torch.

"That wouldn't matter; we can always find ourselves here."

"In the end!" said Valensolle. "And when one reflects that we
are wandering through a grotto under rivers at three o'clock in
the morning, sleeping the Lord knows where, with the prospect
of being taken, tried, and guillotined some fine morning, and
all for princes who don't even know our names, and who if they
did know them one day would forget them the next--I tell you,
Morgan, it's stupid!"

"My dear fellow," said Morgan, "what we call stupid, what ordinary
minds never do understand in such a case, has many a chance to
become sublime."

"Well, well," said Valensolle, "I see that you will lose more
than I do in this business; I put devotion into it, but you put
enthusiasm."

Morgan sighed.

"Here we are," said he, letting the conversation drop, like a
burden too heavy to be carried longer. In fact, his foot had
just struck against the first step of a stairway.

Preceding Valensolle, for whom he lighted the way, Morgan went
up ten steps and reached the gate. Taking a key from his pocket,
he opened it. They found themselves in the burial vault. On each
side of the vault stood coffins on iron tripods: ducal crowns and
escutcheons, blazoned azure, with the cross argent, indicated
that these coffins belonged to the family of Savoy before it
came to bear the royal crown. A flight of stairs at the further
end of the cavern led to an upper floor.

Valensolle cast a curious glance around him, and by the vacillating
light of the torch, he recognized the funereal place he was in.

"The devil!" said he, "we are just the reverse of the Spartans,
it seems."

"Inasmuch as they were Republicans and we are royalists?" asked
Morgan.

"No; because they had skeletons at the end of their suppers, and
we have ours at the beginning."

"Are you sure it was the Spartans who proved their philosophy
in that way?" asked Morgan, closing the door.

"They or others--what matter?" said Vallensolle. "Faith! My citation
is made, and like the Abbé Vertot, who wouldn't rewrite his siege,
I'll not change it."

"Well, another time you had better say the Egyptians."

"Well," said Valensolle, with an indifference that was not without
a certain sadness, "I'll probably be a skeleton myself before I
have another chance to display my erudition. But what the devil
are you doing? Why did you put out the torch? You're not going
to make me eat and sleep here I hope?"

Morgan had in fact extinguished the torch at the foot of the steps
leading to the upper floor.

"Give me your hand," said the young man.

Valensolle seized his friend's band with an eagerness that showed
how very slight a desire he had to make a longer stay in the
gloomy vaults of the dukes of Savoy, no matter what honor there
might be in such illustrious companionship.

Morgan went up the steps. Then, by the tightening of his hand,
Valensolle knew he was making an effort. Presently a stone was
raised, and through the opening a trembling gleam of twilight
met the eyes of the young men, and a fragrant aromatic odor came
to comfort their sense of smell after the mephitic atmosphere
of the vaults.

"Ah!" cried Valensolle, "we are in a barn; I prefer that."

Morgan did not answer; he helped his companion to climb out of
the vault, and then let the stone drop back in its place.

Valensolle looked about him. He was in the midst of a vast building
filled with hay, into which the light filtered through windows
of such exquisite form that they certainly could not be those
of a barn.

"Why!" said Valensolle, "we are not in a barn!"

"Climb up the hay and sit down near that window," replied Morgan.

Valensolle obeyed and scrambled up the hay like a schoolboy in
his holidays; then he sat down, as Morgan had told him, before
a window. The next moment Morgan placed between his friend's
legs a napkin containing a paté, bread, a bottle of wine, two
glasses, two knives and two forks.

"The deuce!" cried Valensolle, "'Lucullus sups with Lucullus.'"

Then gazing through the panes at a building with numberless windows,
which seemed to be a wing of the one they were in, and before
which a sentry was pacing, he exclaimed: "Positively, I can't
eat my supper till I know where we are. What is this building?
And why that sentry at the door?"

"Well," said Morgan, "since you absolutely must know, I will
tell you. We are in the church of Brou, which was converted into
a fodder storehouse by a decree of the Municipal Council. That
adjoining building is now the barracks of the gendarmerie, and
that sentry is posted to prevent any one from disturbing our
supper or surprising us while we sleep."

"Brave fellows," said Valensolle, filling his glass; "their health,
Morgan!"

"And ours!" said the young man, laughing; "the devil take me if
any one could dream of finding us here."

Morgan had hardly drained his glass, when, as if the devil had
accepted the challenge, the sentinel's harsh, strident voice
cried: "_Qui vive!_"

"Hey!" exclaimed the two young men, "what does this mean?"

A body of thirty men came from the direction of Pont d'Ain, and,
after giving the countersign to the sentry, at once dispersed;
the larger number, led by two men, who seemed to be officers,
entered the barracks; the others continued on their way.

"Attention!" said Morgan.

And both young men, on their knees, their ears alert, their eyes
at the window, waited.

Let us now explain to the reader the cause of this interruption
of a repast which, though taken at three o'clock in the morning,
was not, as we have seen, over-tranquil.




CHAPTER XL

A FALSE SCENT

The jailer's daughter had not been mistaken; it was indeed Roland
whom she had seen in the jail speaking to the captain of the
gendarmerie. Neither was Amélie wrong in her terror. Roland was
really in pursuit of Morgan.

Although he avoided going to the Château des Noires-Fontaines,
it was not that he had the slightest suspicion of the interest
his sister had in the leader of the Companions of Jehu; but he
feared the indiscretion of one of his servants. He had recognized
Charlotte at the jail, but as the girl showed no astonishment,
he believed she had not recognized him, all the more because,
after exchanging a few words with the captain, he went out to
wait for the latter on the Place du Bastion, which was always
deserted at that hour.

His duties over, the captain of gendarmerie joined him. He found
Roland impatiently walking back and forth. Roland had merely
made himself known at the jail, but here he proceeded to explain
the matter, and to initiate the captain into the object of his
visit.

Roland had solicited the First Consul, as a favor to himself,
that the pursuit of the Companions of Jehu be intrusted to him
personally, a favor he had obtained without difficulty. An order
from the minister of war placed at his disposal not only the
garrison of Bourg, but also those of the neighboring towns. An
order from the minister of police enjoined all the officers of
the gendarmerie to render him every assistance.

He naturally applied in the first instance to the captain of
the gendarmerie at Bourg, whom he had long known personally as
a man of great courage and executive ability. He found what he
wanted in him. The captain was furious against the Companions
of Jehu, who had stopped diligences within a mile of his town,
and on whom he was unable to lay his hand. He knew of the reports
relating to the last three stoppages that had been sent to the
minister of police, and he understood the latter's anger. But
Roland brought his amazement to a climax when he told him of
the night he had spent at the Chartreuse of Seillon, and of what
had happened to Sir John at that same Chartreuse during the
succeeding night.

The captain had heard by common rumor that Madame de Montrevel's
guest had been stabbed; but as no one had lodged a complaint,
he did not think he had the right to investigate circumstances
which it seemed to him Roland wished to keep in the dark. In
those troublous days more indulgence was shown to officers of
the army than they might have received at other times.

As for Roland, he had said nothing because he wished to reserve
for himself the satisfaction of pursuing the assassins and sham
ghosts of the Chartreuse when the time came. He now arrived with
full power to put that design into execution, firmly resolved
not to return to the First Consul until it was accomplished.
Besides, it was one of those adventures he was always seeking,
at once dangerous and picturesque, an opportunity of pitting his
life against men who cared little for their own, and probably
less for his. Roland had no conception of Morgan's safe-guard
which had twice protected him from danger--once on the night
he had watched at the Chartreuse, and again when he had fought
against Cadoudal. How could he know that a simple cross was drawn
above his name, and that this symbol of redemption guaranteed
his safety from one end of France to the other?

For the rest, the first thing to be done was to surround the
Chartreuse of Seillon, and to search thoroughly into its most
secret places--a thing Roland believed himself perfectly competent
to do.

The night was now too far advanced to undertake the expedition,
and it was postponed until the one following. In the meantime
Roland remained quietly in hiding in the captain's room at the
barracks that no one might suspect his presence at Bourg nor
its cause. The following night he was to guide the expedition.
In the course of the morrow, one of the gendarmes, who was a
tailor, agreed to make him a sergeant's uniform. He was to pass
as a member of the brigade at Sons-le-Saulnier, and, thanks to
the uniform, could direct the search at the Chartreuse without
being recognized.

Everything happened as planned. Roland entered the barracks with
the captain about one o'clock, ascended to the latter's room, where
he slept on a bed on the floor like a man who has just passed two
days and two nights in a post-chaise. The next day he restrained
his impatience by drawing a plan of the Chartreuse of Seillon for
the captain's instruction, with which, even without Roland's
help, that worthy officer could have directed the expedition
without going an inch astray.

As the captain had but eighteen men under him, and it was not
possible to surround the monastery completely with that number,
or rather, to guard the two exits and make a thorough search
through the interior, and, as it would have taken three or four
days to bring in all the men of the brigade scattered throughout
the neighborhood, the officer, by Roland's order, went to the
colonel of dragoons, garrisoned at Bourg, told him of the matter
in hand, and asked for twelve men, who, with his own, made thirty
in all.

The colonel not only granted the twelve men, but, learning that
the expedition was to be commanded by Colonel Roland de Montrevel,
aide-de-camp to the First Consul, he proposed that he himself
should join the party at the head of his twelve men.

Roland accepted his co-operation, and it was agreed that the
colonel (we employ the words colonel and chief of brigade
indifferently, both being interchangeable terms indicating the
same rank) and his twelve dragoons should pick up Roland, the
captain, and his eighteen men, the barracks being directly on
their road to the Chartreuse. The time was set for eleven that
night.

At eleven precisely, with military punctuality, the colonel of
dragoons and his twelve men joined the gendarmes, and the two
companies, now united in one, began their march. Roland, in his
sergeant's uniform, made himself known to his brother colonel;
but to the dragoons and gendarmes he remained, as agreed upon,
a sergeant detached from the brigade at Sons-le-Saulnier. Only,
as it might otherwise have seemed extraordinary that a sergeant,
wholly unfamiliar with these localities, should be their guide,
the men were told that Roland had been in his youth a novice at
Seillon, and was therefore better acquainted than most persons
with the mysterious nooks of the Chartreuse.

The first feeling of these brave soldiers had been a slight
humiliation at being guided by an ex-monk; but, on the other
hand, as that ex-monk wore the three-cornered hat jauntily, and
as his whole manner and appearance was that of a man who has
completely forgotten that he formerly wore a cowl, they ended
by accepting the humiliation, and reserved their final judgment
on the sergeant until they could see how he handled the musket
he carried on his arm, the pistols he wore in his belt, and the
sword that hung at his side.

The party was supplied with torches, and started in perfect silence.
They were divided into three squads; one of eight men, led by
the captain of gendarmerie, another of ten, commanded by the
colonel, and the third of twelve men, with Roland at its head.
On leaving the town they separated.

The captain of the gendarmerie, who knew the localities better
than the colonel of dragoons, took upon himself to guard the
window of La Correrie, giving upon the forest of Seillon, with
his eight men. The colonel of dragoons was commissioned by Roland
to watch the main entrance of the Chartreuse; with him were five
gendarmes and five dragoons. Roland was to search the interior,
taking with him five gendarmes and seven dragoons.

Half an hour was allowed each squad to reach its post; it was
more than was needed. Roland and his men were to scale the orchard
wall when half-past eleven was ringing from the belfry at Péronnaz.
The captain of gendarmerie followed the main road from Pont d'Ain
to the edge of the woods, which he skirted until he reached his
appointed station. The colonel of dragoons took the crossroad
which branches from the highway of Pont d'Ain and leads to the
great portal of the Chartreuse. Roland crossed the fields to the
orchard wall which, as the reader will remember, he had already
climbed on two occasions.

Punctually at half-past eleven he gave the signal to his men
to scale the wall. By the time they reached the other side the
men, if they did not yet know that Roland was brave, were at
least sure that he was active.

Roland pointed in the dusk to a door--the one that led from the
orchard into the cloister. Then he sprang ahead through the rank
grasses; first, he opened the door; first, he entered the cloister.

All was dark, silent and solitary. Roland, still guiding his
men, reached the refectory. Absolute solitude; utter silence.

They crossed the hall obliquely, and returned to the garden without
alarming a living creature except the owls and the bats. There
still remained the cistern, the mortuary vault, and the pavilion,
or rather, the chapel in the forest, to be searched. Roland crossed
the open space between the cistern and the monastery. After
descending the steps, he lighted three torches, kept one, and
handed the other two, one to a dragoon, the other to a gendarme;
then he raised the stone that concealed the stairway.

The gendarmes who followed Roland began to think him as brave
as he was active.

They followed the subterranean passage to the first gate; it
was closed but not locked. They entered the funereal vault. Here
was more than solitude, more than silence; here was death. The
bravest felt a shiver in the roots of their hair.

Roland went from tomb to tomb, sounding each with the butt of
the pistol he held in his hand. Silence everywhere. They crossed
the vault, reached the second gate, and entered the chapel. The
same silence, the same solitude; all was deserted, as it seemed,
for years. Roland went straight to the choir; there lay the blood
on the stones; no one had taken the trouble to efface it. Here
was the end of his search, which had proved futile. Roland could
not bring himself to retreat. He fancied he was not attacked
because of his numerous escort; he therefore left ten men and a
torch in the chapel, told them to put themselves in communication,
through the ruined window, with the captain of the gendarmerie,
who was ambushed in the forest within a few feet of the window,
while he himself, with two men, retraced his steps.

This time the two men who followed Roland thought him more than
brave, they considered him foolhardy. But Roland, caring little
whether they followed or not, retraced his own steps in default
of those of the bandits. The two men, ashamed, followed him.

Undoubtedly the Chartreuse was deserted. When Roland reached the
great portal, he called to the colonel of dragoons; he and his
men were at their post. Roland opened the door and joined them.
They had seen nothing, heard nothing. The whole party entered
the monastery, closing and barricading the door behind them to
cut off the bandits' retreat, if they were fortunate enough to
meet any. Then they hastened to rejoin their comrades, who, on
their side, had united with the captain and his eight men, and
were waiting for them in the choir.

There was nothing for it but to retire. Two o'clock had just
struck; nearly three hours had been spent in fruitless search.
Roland, rehabilitated in the estimation of the gendarmes and
the dragoons, who saw that the ex-novice did not shirk danger,
regretfully gave the signal for retreat by opening the door of
the chapel which looked toward the forest.

This time Roland merely closed the door behind him, there being
no longer any hope of encountering the brigands. Then the little
troop returned to Bourg at a quick step. The captain of gendarmerie,
with his eighteen men and Roland, re-entered the barracks, while
the colonel and his twelve men continued on their way toward the
town.

It was the sentinel's call, as he challenged the captain and
his party, which had attracted the attention of Morgan and
Valensolle; and it was the noise of their return to the barracks
which interrupted the supper, and caused Morgan to cry out at
this unforeseen circumstance: "Attention!"

In fact, in the present situation of these young men, every
circumstance merited attention. So the meal was interrupted.
Their jaws ceased to work to give the eyes and ears full scope.
It soon became evident that the services of their eyes were alone
needed.

Each gendarme regained his room without light. The numerous barrack
windows remained dark, so that the watchers were able to concentrate
their attention on a single point.

Among those dark windows, two were lighted. They stood relatively
back from the rest of the building, and directly opposite to
the one where the young men were supping. These windows were
on the first floor, but in the position the watchers occupied
at the top of bales of hay, Morgan and Valensolle were not only
on a level, but could even look down into them. These windows
were those of the room of the captain of gendarmes.

Whether from indifference on the worthy captain's part, or by
reason of State penury, the windows were bare of curtains, so
that, thanks to the two candles which the captain had lighted
in his guest's honor, Morgan and Valensolle could see everything
that took place in this room.

Suddenly Morgan grasped Valensolle's arm, and pressed it with
all his might.

"Hey" said Valensolle "what now?"

Roland had just thrown his three-cornered hat on a chair and Morgan
had recognized him.

"Roland de Montrevel!" he exclaimed, "Roland in a sergeant's
uniform! This time we are on his track while he is still seeking
ours. It behooves us not to lose it."

"What are you going to do?" asked Valensolle, observing that his
friend was preparing to leave him.

"Inform our companions. You stay here and do not lose sight of
him. He has taken off his sword, and laid his pistols aside,
therefore it is probable he intends to spend the night in the
captain's room. To-morrow I defy him to take any road, no matter
which, without one of us at his heels."

And Morgan sliding down the declivity of the hay, disappeared
from sight, leaving his companion crouched like a sphinx, with
his eyes fixed on Roland de Montrevel.

A quarter of an hour later Morgan returned. By this time the
officer's windows were dark like all the others of the barracks.

"Well?" asked Morgan.

"Well," replied Valensolle, "it ended most prosaically. They
undressed themselves, blew out the candles, and lay down, the
captain on his bed, Roland on a mattress. They are probably trying
to outsnore each other at the present moment."

"In that case," said Morgan, "good-night to them, and to us also."

Ten minutes later the wish was granted, and the two young men
were sleeping, as if they did not have danger for a bed-fellow.




CHAPTER XLI

THE HÔTEL DE LA POSTE

That same morning, about six o'clock, at the cold gray breaking
of a February day, a rider, spurring a post-hack and preceded
by a postilion who was to lead back the horse, left Bourg by
the road to Mâcon or Saint-Julien.

We say Mâcon _or_ Saint-Julien, because about three miles
from the capital of Bresse the road forks; the one to the right
keeping straight on to Saint-Julien, the other, which deviates
to the left, leading to Mâcon.

When the rider reached this bifurcation, he was about to take
the road leading to Mâcon, when a voice, apparently coming from
beneath an upset cart, implored his pity. The rider called to
the postilion to see what the matter was.

A poor market-man was pinned down under a load of vegetables.
He had evidently attempted to hold up the cart just as the wheel,
sinking into the ditch, overbalanced the vehicle. The cart had
fallen on him, but fortunately, he said, he thought no limbs
were broken, and all he wanted was to get the cart righted, and
then he could recover his legs.

The rider was compassionate to his fellow being, for he not only
allowed the postilion to stop and help the market-man, but he
himself dismounted, and with a vigor one would hardly have expected
from so slight a man, he assisted the postilion not only to right
the cart, but to replace it on the roadbed. After which he offered
to help the man to rise; but the latter had said truly; he really
was safe and sound, and if there were a slight shaking of the
legs, it only served to prove the truth of the proverb that God
takes care of drunkards. The man was profuse in his thanks, and
took his horse by the bridle, as much, it was evident, to hold
himself steady as to lead the animal.

The riders remounted their homes, put them to a gallop, and soon
disappeared round a bend which the road makes a short distance
before it reaches the woods of Monnet.

They had scarcely disappeared when a notable change took place in
the demeanor of our market-man. He stopped his horse, straightened
up, put the mouthpiece of a tiny trumpet to his lips, and blew
three times. A species of groom emerged from the woods which
line the road, leading a gentleman's horse by the bridle. The
market-man rapidly removed his blouse, discarded his linen trousers,
and appeared in vest and breeches of buckskin, and top boots.
He searched in his cart, drew forth a package which he opened,
shook out a green hunting coat with gold braidings, put it on,
and over it a dark-brown overcoat; took from the servant's hands
a hat which the latter presented him, and which harmonized with
his elegant costume, made the man screw his spurs to his boots,
and sprang upon his horse with the lightness and skill of an
experienced horseman.

"To-night at seven," he said to the groom, "be on the road between
Saint-Just and Ceyzeriat. You will meet Morgan. Tell him that
he _whom he knows of_ has gone to Mâcon, but that I shall
be there before him."

Then, without troubling himself about his cart and vegetables,
which he left in his servant's charge, the ex-marketman, who
was none other than our old acquaintance Montbar, turned his
horse's head toward the Monnet woods, and set out at a gallop.
His mount was not a miserable post hack, like that on which Roland
was riding. On the contrary, it was a blooded horse, so that
Montbar easily overtook the two riders, and passed them on the
road between the woods of Monnet and Polliat. The horse, except
for a short stop at Saint-Cyr-sur-Menthon, did the twenty-eight
or thirty miles between Bourg and Mâcon, without resting, in
three hours.

Arrived at Mâcon, Montbar dismounted at the Hôtel de la Poste,
the only one which at that time was fitted to receive guests
of distinction. For the rest, from the manner in which Montbar
was received it was evident that the host was dealing with an
old acquaintance.

"Ah! is it you, Monsieur de Jayat?" said the host. "We were wondering
yesterday what had become of you. It's more than a month since
we've seen you in these parts."

"Do you think it's as long as that, friend?" said the young man,
affecting to drop his r's after the fashion of the day. "Yes,
on my honor, that's so! I've been with friends, the Trefforts
and the Hautecourts. You know those gentlemen by name, don't
you?"

"By name, and in person."

"We hunted to hounds. They're finely equipped, word of honor!
Can I breakfast here this morning?"

"Why not?"

"Then serve me a chicken, a bottle of Bordeaux, two cutlets,
fruit--any trifle will go."

"At once. Shall it be served in your room, or in the common room?"

"In the common room, it's more amusing; only give me a table to
myself. Don't forget my horse. He is a fine beast, and I love
him better than I do certain Christians, word of honor!"

The landlord gave his orders. Montbar stood before the fire, his
coat-tails drawn aside, warming his calves.

"So you still keep to the posting business?" he said to the landlord,
as if desirous of keeping up the conversation.

"I should think so!"

"Then you relay the diligences?"

"Not the diligences, but the mail-coaches."

"Ah! tell me--I want to go to Chambéry some of these days--how
many places are there in the mail-coach?"

"Three; two inside, and one out with the courier."

"Do I stand any chance of finding a vacant seat?"

"It may happen; but the safest way is to hire your own conveyance."

"Can't I engage a place beforehand?"

"No; for don't you see, Monsieur de Jayat, that if travellers
take places from Paris to Lyons, they have the first right."

"See, the aristocrats!" said Montbar, laughing. "Apropos of
aristocrats, there is one behind me posting here. I passed him
about a mile the other side of Polliat. I thought his hack a
little wind-broken."

"Oh!" exclaimed the landlord, "that's not astonishing; my brothers
in the business have a poor lot of horses."

"Why, there's our man!" continued Montbar; "I thought I had more
of a lead of him."

Roland was, in fact, just passing the windows at a gallop.

"Do you still want chamber No. 1, Monsieur de Jayat?" asked the
landlord.

"Why do you ask?"

"Because it is the best one, and if you don't take it, I shall
give it to that man, provided he wants to make any stay."

"Oh! don't bother about me; I shan't know till later in the day
whether I go or stay. If the new-comer means to remain give him
No. l. I will content myself with No. 2."

"The gentleman is served," said the waiter, looking through the
door which led from the kitchen to the common room.

Montbar nodded and accepted the invitation. He entered the common
room just as Roland came into the kitchen. The dinner was on
the table. Montbar changed his plate and sat down with his back
to the door. The precaution was useless. Roland did not enter
the common room, and Montbar breakfasted without interruption.
When dessert was over, however, the host himself brought in his
coffee. Montbar understood that the good man was in talkative
humor; a fortunate circumstance, for there were certain things
he was anxious to hear about.

"Well," said Montbar, "what became of our man? Did he only change
horses?"

"No, no, no," said the landlord; "as you said, he's an aristocrat.
He ordered breakfast in his own room."

"His room or my room?" asked Montbar; "for I'm certain you put
him in that famous No. 1."

"Confound it! Monsieur de Jayat, it's your own fault. You told
me I could do as I liked."

"And you took me at my word; that was right. I shall be satisfied
with No. 2."

"You'll be very uncomfortable. It's only separated from No. 1
by a partition, and you can hear everything that happens from
one room to the other."

"Nonsense, my dear man, do you think I've come here to do improper
things, or sing seditious songs, that you are afraid the stranger
should hear or see what I do?"

"Oh! that's not it."

"What is it then?"

"I'm not afraid you'll disturb others. I'm afraid they'll disturb
you."

"So your new guest is a roisterer?"

"No; he looks to me like an officer."

"What makes you think so?"

"His manner, in the first place. Then he inquired what regiment
was in garrison at Mâcon; and when I told him it was the 7th
mounted Chasseurs, he said: 'Good! the colonel is a friend of
mine. Can a waiter take him my card and ask him to breakfast
with me?'"

"Ah, ha!"

"So you see how it is. When officers get together they make so
much racket and noise. Perhaps they'll not only breakfast, but
dine and sup together."

"I've told you already, my good man, that I am not sure of passing
the night here. I am expecting letters from Paris, _paste
restante_, which will decide me. In the meantime, light a
fire in No. 2, and make as little noise as possible, to avoid
annoying my neighbors. And, at the same time, send me up pen
and ink, and some paper. I have letters to write."

Montbar's orders were promptly executed, and he himself followed
the waiter to see that Roland was not disturbed by his proximity.

The chamber was just what the landlord had said. Not a movement
could be made, not a word uttered in the next room, that was not
heard. Consequently Montbar distinctly heard the waiter announce
Colonel Saint-Maurice, then the resounding steps of the latter in
the corridor, and the exclamations of the two friends, delighted
to meet again.

On the other hand, Roland, who had been for a moment disturbed
by the noise in the adjoining room, forgot it as soon as it had
ceased, and there was no danger of its being renewed. Montbar,
left alone, seated himself at the table, on which were paper,
pen and ink, and remained perfectly motionless.

The two officers had known each other in Italy, where Roland
was under the command of Saint-Maurice, the latter being then
a captain and Roland a lieutenant. At present their rank was
equal, but Roland had beside a double commission from the First
Consul and the minister of police, which placed all officers
of his own rank under his command, and even, within the limits
of his mission, those of a higher rank.

Morgan had not been mistaken in supposing that Amélie's brother
was in pursuit of the Companions of Jehu. If Roland's nocturnal
search at the Chartreuse of Seillon was not convincing, the
conversation between the young officer and his colleague was
proof positive. In it, it developed that the First Consul was
really sending fifty thousand francs as a gift to the monks of
Saint-Bernard, by post; but that this money was in reality a
trap devised for the capture of the Companions of Jehu, if all
means failed to surprise them in the Chartreuse of Seillon or
some other refuge.

It now-remained to be seen how these bandits should be captured.
The case was eagerly debated between the two officers while they
had breakfast. By the time dessert was served they were both
agreed upon a plan.

That same evening, Morgan received the following letter:

  Just as Adler told us, next Friday at five o'clock the mail-coach
  will leave Paris with fifty thousand francs for the fathers of
  Saint-Bernard.

  The three places, the one in the coupé and the two in the interior,
  are already engaged by three travellers who will join the coach,
  one at Sens, the other two at Tonnerre. The travellers are, in the
  coupé, one of citizen Fouché's best men: in the interior M. Roland
  de Montrevel and the colonel of the 7th Chasseurs, garrisoned at
  Mâcon. They will be in civilians' clothes not to excite suspicion,
  but armed to the teeth.

  Twelve mounted Chasseurs, with muskets, pistols, and sabres, will
  escort the coach, but at some distance behind it, so as to arrive
  during the fray. The first pistol fired will be the signal for
  putting their horses to a gallop and falling upon us.

  Now my advice is that, in spite of these precautions, in fact
  because of these precautions, the attack should be made at the
  place agreed upon, namely the Maison-Blanche. If that is also the
  opinion of the comrades, let me know it. I will myself take the
  coach, as postilion, from Mâcon to Belleville. I will undertake
  to settle the colonel, and one of you must be responsible for
  Fouché's agent.

  As for M. Roland de Montrevel, no harm will befall him, for I
  have a means, known to me alone and by me invented, by which he
  can be prevented from leaving the coach.

  The precise day and hour at which the mail to Chambéry will pass
  the Maison-Blanche is Saturday at six in the evening. Answer in
  these words, "Saturday, six of the evening," and all will go on
  rollers.  MONTBAR.

At midnight Montbar, who had complained of the noise his neighbor
made, and had removed to a room at the opposite end of the inn,
was awakened by a courier, who was none other than the groom
who had brought him his horse ready bridled and saddled in the
morning. The letter contained only these words, followed by a
postscript:

  Saturday, six of the evening.  MORGAN.

  P.S.--Do not forget, even when fighting, above all when fighting,
  that Roland de Montrevel's life is safeguarded.

The young man read this reply with visible satisfaction. The
matter was no longer a mere stoppage of a diligence, but a species
of affair of honor among men of differing opinions, with clashes
of courage and bravery. It was no longer a matter of gold spilled
upon the highroad, but of blood to be shed--not of pistols loaded
with powder, and wielded by a child's hands, but of deadly weapons
handled by soldiers accustomed to their use.

For the rest, as Montbar had all the day that was dawning and
the morrow before him in which to mature his plans, he contented
himself with asking his groom to inquire which postilion would
take the coach at Mâcon at five o'clock for the two stages between
Mâcon and Belleville. He also sent him to buy four screw-rings
and two padlocks fastening with keys.

He already knew that the mail was due at Mâcon at half past four,
waited for the travellers to dine, and started again punctually
at five. No doubt all his plans were previously laid, for, after
giving these directions, Montbar dismissed his servant and went
to sleep like a man who has long arrears of slumber to make up.

The next morning he did not wake, or rather did not come downstairs
until nine o'clock. He asked casually what had become of his
noisy neighbor, and was told that he had started in the Lyons
mail at six in the morning, with his friend the colonel of the
Chasseurs; but the landlord thought they had only engaged places
as far as Tonnerre.

If Monsieur de Jayat had interested himself in the young officer,
the latter, in turn, had made inquiries about him, asking who
he was, whether he came habitually to the hotel, and whether
he would be willing to sell his horse. The landlord had replied
that he knew Monsieur de Jayat well, for he was in the habit
of coming to the hotel whenever business brought him to Mâcon,
and that, as for the horse, he did not believe, considering the
affection the young gentleman showed for the animal, that he would
consent to part with him for any price. On which the traveller
had departed without saying any more.

After breakfast M. de Jayat, who seemed to find time hanging
heavily on his hands, ordered his horse, mounted it, and rode
out from Mâcon by the Lyons road. As long as he was in the town
he allowed his horse to take the pace his fancy dictated, but
once beyond it, he gathered up the reins and pressed the animal
with his knees. The hint sufficed, and the animal broke into
a gallop.

Montbar passed through the villages of Varennes, La Crèche, and
Chapelle-de-Guinchay, and did not stop until he reached the
Maison-Blanche. The spot was exactly as Valensolle had described
it, and was admirably adapted for an ambuscade.

The Maison-Blanche stood in a tiny valley between a sharp declivity
and a rise in the ground. A little rivulet without a name flowed
past the corner of the garden and made its way to the Saône just
above Challe. Tall bushy trees followed the course of the little
stream, and described a half-circle, inclosing the house on three
sides. The house itself was formerly an inn which proved unproductive
to the innkeeper. It had been closed for seven or eight years,
and was beginning to fall into decay. Before reaching it, the
main road coming from Mâcon made a sharp turn.

Montbar examined the locality with the care of an engineer choosing
his ground for a battlefield. He drew a pencil and a note-book
from his pocket and made an accurate plan of the position. Then
he returned to Mâcon.

Two hours later his groom departed, carrying the plan to Morgan,
having informed his master that Antoine was the name of the postilion
who was to take the coach from Mâcon to Belleville. The groom
also gave him the four screw-rings and the two padlocks he had
purchased.

Montbar ordered up a bottle of old Burgundy, and sent for Antoine.

Ten minutes later Antoine appeared. He was a fine, handsome fellow,
twenty-five or six years of age, about Montbar's height; a fact
which the latter, in looking him over from head to foot, remarked
with satisfaction. The postilion paused at the threshold, and,
carrying his hand to his hat in a military salute, he said: "Did
the citizen send for me?"

"Are you the man they call Antoine?" asked Montbar.

"At your service, and that of your company."

"Well, you can serve me, friend. But close the door and come here."

Antoine closed the door, came within two steps of Montbar, saluted
again, and said: "Ready, master."

"In the first place," said Montbar, "if you have no objections,
we'll drink a glass of wine to the health of your mistress."

"Oh! oh! My mistress!" cried Antoine. "Can fellows like me afford
mistresses? They're all very well for gentlemen such as you."

"Come, you scamp!" said Montbar. "You can't make me believe that,
with your make-up, you've made a vow of chastity."

"Oh! I don't say I'm a monk in that particular. I may have a bit
of a love-affair here and there along the high-road."

"Yes, at every tavern; and that's why we stop so often with our
return horses to drink a drop or fill a pipe."

"Confound it!" said Antoine, with an indescribable twist of the
shoulders. "A fellow must have his fun."

"Well, taste the wine, my lad. I'll warrant it won't make you
weep." And filling a glass, Montbar signed to the postilion to
fill the other.

"A fine honor for me! To your health and that of your company!"

This was an habitual phrase of the worthy postilion, a sort of
extension of politeness which did not need the presence of others
to justify it in his eyes.

"Ha!" said he, after drinking and smacking his lips, "there's
vintage for you--and I have gulped it down at a swallow as if
it were heel-taps!"

"That was a mistake, Antoine."

"Yes, it was a mistake."

"Luckily," said Montbar, refilling his glass, "you can repair it."

"No higher than my thumb, citizen," said the facetious postilion,
taking care that his thumb touched the rim of the glass.

"One minute," said Montbar, just as Antoine was putting his glass
to his lips.

"Just in time," said the postilion; "it was on its way. What is it?"

"You wouldn't let me drink to the health of your mistress, but
I hope you won't refuse to drink to mine."

"Oh! that's never refused, especially with such wine. To the health
of your mistress and her company."

Thereupon citizen Antoine swallowed the crimson liquor, tasting
and relishing it this time.

"Hey!" exclaimed Montbar, "you're in too much of a hurry, my friend."

"Pooh!" retorted the postilion.

"Yes. Suppose I have several mistresses. If I don't name the one
we drink to what good will it do her?"

"Why, that's true!"

"Sad; but you'll have to try again, my friend."

"Ha! Try again, of course! Can't do things half-way with a man
like you. The sin's committed; we'll drink again." And Antoine
held out his glass. Montbar filled it to the brim.

"Now," said Antoine, eying the bottle, and making sure it was
empty, "there must be no mistake. Her name?"

"To the beautiful Josephine!" said Montbar.

"To the beautiful Josephine!" repeated Antoine.

And he swallowed the Burgundy with increasing satisfaction. Then,
after drinking, and wiping his lips on his sleeve, he said, as
he set the glass on the table: "Hey! one moment, citizen."

"What now?" exclaimed Montbar. "Anything wrong this time?"

"I should say so. We've made a great blunder but it's too late
now."

"Why so?"

"The bottle is empty."

"That one, yes; but not this one."

So saying, Montbar took from the chimney corner another bottle,
already uncorked.

"Ah! ah!" exclaimed Antoine, a radiant smile lighting his face.

"Is there any remedy for it?" asked Montbar.

"There is," replied Antoine, holding out his glass.

Montbar filled it as scrupulously full as he had the first three.

"Well," said the postilion, holding the ruby liquid to the light
and admiring its sparkle, "as I was saying, we drank to the health
of the beautiful Josephine--"

"Yes," said Montbar.

"But," said Antoine, "there are a devilish lot of Josephines in
France."

"True. How many do you suppose there are, Antoine?"

"Perhaps a hundred thousand."

"Granted. What then?"

"Well, out of that hundred thousand a tenth of them must be
beautiful."

"That's a good many."

"Say a twentieth."

"All right."

"That makes five thousand."

"The devil! You're strong in arithmetic!"

"I'm the son of a schoolmaster."

"Well?"

"Well, to which of those five thousand did we drink, hey?"

"You're right, Antoine. The family name must follow. To the beautiful
Josephine--"

"Stop. This glass was begun; it won't do. If the health is to
do her any good, we'll have to empty it and fill it again."

He put the glass to his lips.

"There, it's empty," he said.

"And full," added Montbar, putting the bottle to the glass.

"I'm ready. To the beautiful Josephine--"

"To the beautiful Josephine--Lollier!"

And Montbar emptied his glass.

"By the Lord!" exclaimed Antoine. "Wait a moment. Josephine Lollier!
Why, I know her."

"I didn't say you didn't."

"Josephine Lollier! Why, she's the daughter of the man who keeps
the post-horses at Belleville."

"Exactly."

"Damn it!" exclaimed the postilion, "you're not to be pitied--a
pretty slip of a girl! To the health of beautiful Josephine Lollier."

And he swallowed his fifth glass of Burgundy.

"Now," asked Montbar, "do you understand why I had you sent up
here, my lad?"

"No; but I don't bear you any grudge for it, all the same."

"That's very kind of you."

"Oh! I'm a pretty good devil."

"Well, I'll tell you why I sent for you."

"I'm all ears."

"Wait. You'll hear better if your glass is full than if it's empty."

"Are you a doctor for deaf folk?" asked the postilion, banteringly.

"No; but I've lived a good deal among drunkards," replied Montbar,
filling Antoine's glass again.

"A man is not a drunkard because he likes wine," said Antoine.

"I agree with you, my good fellow," replied Montbar. "A man is
only a drunkard when he can't carry his liquor."

"Well said," cried Antoine, who seemed to carry his pretty well.
"I'm listening."

"You told me that you didn't understand why I had sent for you."

"That's what I said."

"Still, you must have suspected that I had an object?"

"Every man has an object, good or bad, according to our priest,"
observed Antoine, sententiously.

"Well, my friend," resumed Montbar, "mine is to make my way by
night, without being recognized, into the courtyard of Master
Nicolas-Denis Lollier, postmaster at Belleville."

"At Belleville," repeated Antoine, who had followed Montbar's
words with all the attention he was capable of. "You wish to make
your way by night, without being recognized, into the courtyard
of Master Nicolas-Denis Lollier, postmaster at Belleville, in
order to see the beautiful Josephine? Ah, ha! my sly dog!"

"You have it, my dear Antoine; and I wish to get in without being
recognized, because Father Lollier has discovered everything,
and has forbidden his daughter to see me."

"You don't say so. Well, what can I do about it?"

"Your wits are still muddled, Antoine. Drink another glass of
wine to brighten them up."

"Right you are," exclaimed Antoine.

And he swallowed his sixth glass of wine.

"You ask what you can do, Antoine?"

"Yes, what can I do? That's what I ask."

"Everything, my friend."

"I?"

"You."

"Ha! I'm curious to know what. Clear it up, clear it up!" And
he held out his glass.

"You drive the mail to Chambéry to-morrow, don't you?"

"Yes; at six o'clock."

"Well, suppose that Antoine is a good fellow?"

"No supposing about it; he is!"

"Well, this is what Antoine does--"

"Go on; what does he do?"

"In the first place, he empties his glass."

"Done! that's not difficult."

"Then he takes these ten louis."

Montbar spread ten louis on the table.

"Ah, ha!" exclaimed Antoine, "yellow boys, real ones. I thought
those little devils had all emigrated."

"You see there are some left."

"And what is Antoine to do to put them in his pocket?"

"Antoine must lend me his best postilion's suit."

"To you?"

"And let me take his place to-morrow night."

"Ah, yes; so that you can see the beautiful Josephine to-morrow
night."

"Of course. I reach Belleville at eight, drive into the courtyard,
and say the horses are tired and must rest from eight till ten,
and from eight to ten--"

"You can fool Père Lollier."

"Well, there you are, Antoine!"

"There I am! When a fellow's young he goes with the young 'uns;
when he's a bachelor he's in with the bachelors; when he's old
and a papa, he can go with the papas, and cry, 'Long live the
papas.'"

"Then, my good Antoine, you'll lend me your best jacket and
breeches?"

"I've just got a new jacket and breeches that I've never worn."

"And you'll let me take your place?"

"With pleasure."

"Then I'll give you five louis for earnest money."

"And the rest?"

"Tomorrow, when I pull on the boots; only--there's one precaution
you must take."

"What is it?"

"There's talk of brigands robbing diligences; you'll be careful
to put the holsters on the saddle."

"What for?"

"For pistols."

"No, no! Don't you go and shoot those fine young fellows."

"What! do you call robbers who pillage diligences fine young men?"

"A man's not a robber because he takes government money."

"Is that your opinion?"

"I should say so; besides, it's the opinion of a good many other
people, too. As for me, if I were a judge, I'd never in the world
condemn them."

"Perhaps you would drink to their health?"

"Of course, if the wine was good."

"I dare you to do it," said Montbar, emptying the last of the
second bottle into Antoine's glass.

"You know the proverb?" said the postilion.

"What is it?"

"Never defy a fool to commit his folly. To the health of the
Companions of Jehu."

"Amen!" responded Montbar.

"And the five louis?" asked Antoine, putting his glass on the
table.

"There they are."

"Thank you; you shall have the holsters on your saddle; but take
my advice and don't put pistols in 'em; or if you do, follow Père
Jérôme's example--he's the conductor of the Geneva diligence--and
put powder and no balls in 'em."

And with that philanthropic advice, the postilion took his leave,
and went down the stairway singing a postilion's song in a vinous
voice.

Montbar followed the song conscientiously through two verses,
then, as the voice died away in the distance, he was obliged
to forego the rest of the song, however interesting he may have
found it.




CHAPTER XLII

THE CHAMBÉRY MAIL-COACH

The next day, at five in the afternoon, Antoine, anxious, no
doubt, not to be late, was in the courtyard of the Hôtel de la
Poste, harnessing the three horses which were to relay the
mail-coach.

Shortly after, the coach rumbled into the courtyard at a gallop,
and was pulled up under the windows of a room close to the servants'
stairway, which had seemed greatly to occupy Antoine's attention.
If any one had paid attention to so slight a detail it might have
been observed that the window-curtain was somewhat imprudently
drawn aside to permit the occupant of the room to see the persons
who got out of the coach. There were three men, who, with the haste
of famished travellers, made their way toward the brilliantly
lighted windows of the common room.

They had scarcely entered, when a smart postilion came down the
kitchen staircase, shod simply with thin pumps over which he
intended to pull his heavy riding-boots, These he received from
Antoine, slipping five louis into his hand at the same time, and
turned for the man to throw his riding cape over his shoulders,
a protection rendered necessary by the severity of the weather.

This completed, Antoine returned hastily to the stables and hid
in the darkest corner. As for the man who had taken his place,
reassured no doubt by the high collar of the cape that concealed
half of his face, he went straight to the horses which stood
ready harnessed, slipped his pistols into the holsters, and,
profitting by the moment when the other horses were being led
into the stable by their postilion, he took a gimlet, which might
in case of need serve as a dagger, from his pocket, and screwed
the four rings into the woodwork of the coach, one into each
door, and the other two into the body of the coach. After which
he put the horses to with a rapidity and skill which bespoke
in him a man familiar from childhood with all the details of
an art pushed to extremes in our day by that honorable class of
society which we call "gentlemen riders."

That done, he waited, quieting his restless horses by voice and
whip, judiciously combined, or used in turn.

Everyone knows the rapidity with which the meals of the unhappy
beings condemned to travel by mail are hurried through. The half-hour
was not up, when the voice of the conductor was heard, calling:

"Come, citizen travellers, take your places."

Montbar placed himself close to the carriage door and recognized
Roland and the colonel of the 7th Chasseurs, perfectly, in spite of
their disguise, as they jumped into the coach, paying no attention
whatever to the postilion.

The latter closed the door upon them, slipped the padlock through
the two rings and turned the key. Then, walking around the coach,
he pretended to drop his whip before the other door, and, in
stooping for it, slipped the second padlock through the rings,
deftly turned the key as he straightened up, and, assured that
the two officers were securely locked in, he sprang upon his
horse, grumbling at the conductor who had left him to do his
work. In fact the conductor was still squabbling with the landlord
over his bill when the third traveller got into his place in
the coupé.

"Are you coming this evening, to-night, or to-morrow morning,
Père François?" cried the pretended postilion, imitating Antoine
as best he could.

"All right, all right, I'm coming," answered the conductor; then,
looking around him: "Why, where are the travellers?" he asked.

"Here," replied the two officers from the interior and the agent
from the coupé.

"Is the door properly closed?" persisted Père François.

"I'll answer for that," said Montbar.

"Then off you go, baggage!" cried the conductor, as he climbed
into the coupé and closed the door behind him.

The postilion did not wait to be told twice; he started his horses,
digging his spurs into the belly of the one he rode and lashing
the others vigorously. The mail-coach dashed forward at a gallop.

Montbar drove as if he had never done anything else in his life;
as he crossed the town the windows rattled and the houses shook;
never did real postilion crack his whip with greater science.

As he left Mâcon he saw a little troop of horse; they were the
twelve chasseurs told off to follow the coach without seeming
to escort it. The colonel passed his head through the window
and made a sign to the sergeant who commanded them.

Montbar did not seem to notice anything; but after going some
four or five hundred yards, he turned his head, while executing
a symphony with his whip, and saw that the escort had started.

"Wait, my babes!" said Montbar, "I'll make you see the country."
And he dug in his spurs and brought down his whip. The horses
seemed to have wings, and the coach flew over the cobblestones
like the chariot of thunder rumbling past. The conductor became
alarmed.

"Hey, Master Antoine," cried he, "are you drunk?"

"Drunk? fine drinking!" replied Montbar; "I dined on a beetroot
salad."

"Damn him! If he goes like that," cried Roland, thrusting his
head through the window, "the escort can't keep up."

"You hear what he says!" shrieked the conductor.

"No," replied Montbar, "I don't."

"Well, he says that if you keep this up the escort can't follow."

"Is there an escort?" asked Montbar.

"Of course; we're carrying government money."

"That's different; you ought to have said so at first."

But instead of slacking his pace the coach was whirled along
as before; if there was any change, it was for greater velocity
than before.

"Antoine, if there's an accident, I'll shoot you through the head,"
shouted the conductor.

"Run along!" exclaimed Montbar; "everybody knows those pistols
haven't any balls in them."

"Possibly not; but mine have!" cried the police agent.

"That remains to be seen," replied Montbar, keeping on his way
at the same pace without heed to these remonstrances.

On they went with the speed of lightning through the village
of Varennes, then through that of La Crêche and the little town
of Chapelle-de-Guinchay; only half a mile further and they would
reach the Maison-Blanche. The horses were dripping, and tossed
the foam from their mouths as they neighed with excitement.

Montbar glanced behind him; more than a mile back the sparks were
flying from the escort's horses. Before him was the mountainous
declivity. Down it he dashed, gathering the reins to master his
horses when the time came.

The conductor had ceased expostulating, for he saw that the hand
which guided the horses was firm and capable. But from time to
time the colonel thrust his head through the window to look for
his men.

Half-way down the slope Montbar had his horses under control,
without, however, seeming to check their course. Then he began
to sing, at the top of his voice, the "Réveil du Peuple," the
song of the royalists, just as the "Marseillaise" was the song
of the Jacobins.

"What's that rogue about?" cried Roland, putting his head through
the window. "Tell him to hold his tongue, conductor, or I'll
put a ball through his loins."

Perhaps the conductor might have repeated Roland's threat to
Montbar, but he suddenly saw a black line blocking the road. "Halt,
conductor!" thundered a voice the next moment.

"Postilion, drive over the bellies of those bandits!" shouted
the police agent.

"Drive on yourself!" said Montbar. "Do you suppose I'm going over
the stomachs of friends? Who-o-ah!"

The mail coach stopped as if by magic.

"Go on! go on!" cried Roland and the colonel, aware that the escort
was too far behind to help them.

"Ha! You villain of a postilion," cried the police agent, springing
out of the coupé, and pointing his pistol at Montbar, "you shall
pay for this."

The words were scarcely uttered when Montbar, forestalling him,
fired, and the agent rolled, mortally wounded, under the wheels
of the coach. His fingers, convulsed by death, touched the trigger
and the pistol went off, but the ball touched no one.

"Conductor," shouted the two officers, "by all the powers of heaven,
open, open, open quickly!"

"Gentlemen," said Morgan, advancing, "we are not attacking your
persons, we merely want the government money. Conductor! that
fifty thousand francs, and quickly too!"

Two shots from the interior made answer for the officers, who,
after vainly shaking the doors, were still more fruitlessly
attempting to force themselves through the windows. No doubt
one of their shots took effect, for a cry of rage was heard and
a flash illuminated the road. The colonel gave a sigh, and fell
back against Roland. He was killed outright.

Roland fired again, but no one replied to him. His pistols were
both discharged; locked in as he was he could not use his sabre,
and he howled with rage.

Meantime the conductor was forced, with a pistol at his throat,
to give up the money. Two men took the bags containing the fifty
thousand francs, and fastened them on Montbar's horse, which his
groom had brought ready saddled and bridled, as if to a meet.
Montbar kicked off his heavy boots and sprang into the saddle.

"My compliments to the First Consul, Monsieur de Montrevel!"
cried Morgan. Then, turning to his companions, he cried: "Scatter
which way you will, you know the rendezvous for to-morrow night."

"Yes, yes," replied ten or a dozen voices.

And the band dispersed like a flock of birds, disappearing down
the valley into the shadow of the trees that lined the banks
of the little river and surrounded the Maison-Blanche.

At that moment the gallop of horses was heard, and the escort,
alarmed by the pistol shots, appeared on the crest of the hill
and came down the slope like an avalanche. But it came too late;
it found only the conductor sitting dazed by the roadside, the
bodies of the colonel and of Fouché's agent, and Roland a prisoner,
roaring like a lion gnawing at the bars of its cage.




CHAPTER XLIII

LORD GRENVILLE'S REPLY

While the events we have just recorded were transpiring, and
occupying the minds and newspapers of the provinces, other events,
of very different import, were maturing in Paris, which were
destined to occupy the minds and newspapers of the whole world.

Lord Tanlay had returned, bringing the reply of his uncle, Lord
Grenville. This reply consisted of a letter addressed to M. de
Talleyrand, inclosing a memorandum for the First Consul. The
letter was couched in the following terms:

  DOWNING STREET, February 14, 1800

  Sir--I have received and placed before the King the letter
  which you transmitted to me through my nephew, Lord Tanlay.
  His Majesty, seeing no reason to depart from the
  long-established customs of Europe in treating with foreign
  states, directs me to forward you in his name the official
  reply which is herewith inclosed.

  I have the honor to be, with the highest esteem, your very
  humble and obedient servant,  GRENVILLE.

The letter was dry; the memorandum curt. Moreover, the First
Consul's letter to King George was autographic, and King George,
not "departing from the long-established customs of Europe in
treating with foreign States," replied by a simple memorandum
written by a secretary.

True, the memorandum was signed "Grenville." It was a long
recrimination against France; against the spirit of disorder,
which disturbed the nation; against the fears which that spirit
of disorder inspired in all Europe; and on the necessity imposed
on the sovereigns of Europe, for the sake of their own safety, to
repress it. In short, the memorandum was virtually a continuation
of the war.

The reading of such a dictum made Bonaparte's eyes flash with the
flame which, in him, preceded his great decisions, as lightning
precedes thunder.

"So, sir," said he, turning to Lord Tanlay, "this is all you have
obtained?"

"Yes, citizen First Consul."

"Then you did not repeat verbally to your uncle all that I charged
you to say to him?"

"I did not omit a syllable."

"Did you tell him that you had lived in France three years, that
you had seen her, had studied her; that she was strong, powerful,
prosperous and desirous of peace while prepared for war?"

"I told him all that."

"Did you add that the war which England is making against France
is a senseless war; that the spirit of disorder of which they
speak, and which, at the worst, is only the effervescence of
freedom too long restrained, which it were wiser to confine to
France by means of a general peace; that that peace is the sole
_cordon sanitaire_ which can prevent it from crossing our
frontiers; and that if the volcano of war is lighted in France,
France will spread like lava over foreign lands. Italy is delivered,
says the King of England; but from whom? From her liberators.
Italy is delivered, but why? Because I conquered Egypt from the
Delta to the third Cataract; Italy is delivered because I was no
longer in Italy. But--I am here: in a month I can be in Italy.
What do I need to win her back from the Alps to the Adriatic? A
single battle. Do you know what Masséna is doing in defending
Genoa? Waiting for me. Ha! the sovereigns of Europe need war
to protect their crowns? Well, my lord, I tell you that I will
shake Europe until their crowns tremble on their heads. Want
war, do they? Just wait--Bourrienne! Bourrienne!"

The door between the First Consul's study and the secretary's
office opened precipitately, and Bourrienne rushed in, his face
terrified, as though he thought Bonaparte were calling for help.
But when he saw him highly excited, crumpling the diplomatic
memorandum in one hand and striking with the other on his desk,
while Lord Tanlay was standing calm, erect and silent near him,
he understood immediately that England's answer had irritated
the First Consul.

"Did you call me, general?" he asked.

"Yes," said the First Consul, "sit down there and write."

Then in a harsh, jerky voice, without seeking his words, which,
on the contrary, seemed to crowd through the portal of his brain,
he dictated the following proclamation:

  SOLDIERS!--In promising peace to the French people, I was your
  mouthpiece; I know your power.

  You are the same men who conquered the Rhine, Holland and Italy,
  and granted peace beneath the walls of astounded Vienna.

  Soldiers, it is no longer our own frontiers that you have to
  defend; it is the enemy's country you must now invade.

  Soldiers, when the time comes, I shall be among you, and
  astounded Europe shall remember that you belong to the race
  of heroes!

Bourrienne raised his head, expectant, after writing the last
words.

"Well, that's all," said Bonaparte.

"Shall I add the sacramental words: 'Vive la République!'?"

"Why do you ask that?"

"Because we have issued no proclamation during the last four
months, and something may be changed in the ordinary formulas."

"The proclamation will do as it is," said Bonaparte, "add nothing
to it."

Taking a pen, he dashed rather than wrote his signature at the
bottom of the paper, then handing it to Bourrienne, he said:
"See that it appears in the 'Moniteur' to-morrow."

Bourrienne left the room, carrying the proclamation with him.

Bonaparte, left alone with Lord Tanlay, walked up and down the
room for a moment, as though he had forgotten the Englishman's
presence; then he stopped suddenly before him.

"My lord," he asked, "do you think you obtained from your uncle
all that another man might have obtained in your place?"

"More, citizen First Consul."

"More! more! Pray, what have you obtained?"

"I think that the citizen First Consul did not read the royal
memorandum with all the attention it deserves."

"Heavens!" exclaimed Bonaparte, "I know it by heart."

"Then the citizen First Consul cannot have weighed the meaning
and the wording of a certain paragraph."

"You think so?"

"I am sure of it; and if the citizen First Consul will permit
me to read him the paragraph to which I allude--"

Bonaparte relaxed his hold upon the crumpled note, and handed
it to Lord Tanlay, saying: "Read it."

Sir John cast his eyes over the document, with which he seemed
to be familiar, paused at the tenth paragraph, and read:

  The best and surest means for peace and security, and for their
  continuance, would be the restoration of that line of princes who
  for so many centuries have preserved to the French nation its
  internal prosperity and the respect and consideration of foreign
  countries. Such an event would have removed, and at any time will
  remove, the obstacles which are now in the way of negotiations
  and peace; it would guarantee to France the tranquil possession
  of her former territory, and procure for all the other nations of
  Europe, through a like tranquillity and peace, that security which
  they are now obliged to seek by other means.

"Well," said Bonaparte, impatiently, "I have read all that, and
perfectly understood it. Be Monk, labor for another man, and
your victories, your renown, your genius will be forgiven you;
humble yourself, and you shall be allowed to remain great!"

"Citizen First Consul," said Lord Tanlay, "no one knows better
than I the difference between you and Monk, and how far you surpass
him in genius and renown."

"Then why do you read me that?"

"I only read that paragraph," replied Sir John, "to lead you
to give to the one following its due significance."

"Let's hear it," said Bonaparte, with repressed impatience.

Sir John continued:

  But, however desirable such an event may be for France and for
  the world, it is not to this means alone that his Majesty
  restricts the possibility of a safe and sure pacification.

Sir John emphasized the last words.

"Ah! ah!" exclaimed Bonaparte, stepping hastily to Sir John's
side.

The Englishman continued:

  His Majesty does not presume to prescribe to France her form
  of government, nor the hands into which she may place the
  necessary authority to conduct the affairs of a great and
  powerful nation.

"Read that again, sir," said Bonaparte, eagerly.

"Read it yourself," replied Sir John.

He handed him the note, and Bonaparte re-read it.

"Was it you, sir," he asked, "who added that paragraph?"

"I certainly insisted on it."

Bonaparte reflected.

"You are right," he said; "a great step has been taken; the return
of the Bourbons is no longer a condition _sine quâ non_.
I am accepted, not only as a military, but also as a political
power." Then, holding out his hand to Sir John, he added: "Have
you anything to ask of me, sir?"

"The only thing I seek has been asked of you by my friend Roland."

"And I answered, sir, that I shall be pleased to see you the
husband of his sister. If I were richer, or if you were less
so, I would offer to dower her"--Sir John made a motion--"but
as I know your fortune will suffice for two," added Bonaparte,
smiling, "or even more, I leave you the joy of giving not only
happiness, but also wealth to the woman you love. Bourrienne!"
he called.

Bourrienne appeared.

"I have sent it, general," he said.

"Very good," replied the First Consul; "but that is not what I
called you for."

"I await your orders."

"At whatever hour of the day or night Lord Tanlay presents himself,
I shall be happy to receive him without delay; you hear me, my dear
Bourrienne? You hear me, my lord?"

Lord Tanlay bowed his thanks.

"And now," said Bonaparte, "I presume you are in a hurry to be
off to the Château des Noires-Fontaines. I won't detain you,
but there is one condition I impose."

"And that is, general?"

"If I need you for another mission--"

"That is not a condition, citizen First Consul; it is a favor."

Lord Tanlay bowed and withdrew.

Bourrienne prepared to follow him, but Bonaparte called him back.
"Is there a carriage below?" he asked.

Bourrienne looked into the courtyard. "Yes, general."

"Then get ready and come with me."

"I am ready, general; I have only my hat and overcoat to get,
and they are in the office."

"Then let us go," said Bonaparte.

He took up his hat and coat, went down the private staircase, and
signed to the carriage to come up. Notwithstanding Bourrienne's
haste, he got down after him. A footman opened the door; Bonaparte
sprang in.

"Where are we going, general?" asked Bourrienne.

"To the Tuileries," replied Bonaparte.

Bourrienne, amazed, repeated the order, and looked at the First
Consul as if to seek an explanation; but the latter was plunged
in thought, and the secretary, who at this time was still the
friend, thought it best not to disturb him.

The horses started at gallop--Bonaparte's usual mode of
progression--and took the way to the Tuileries.

The Tuileries, inhabited by Louis XVI. after the days of the 5th
and 6th of October, and occupied successively by the Convention
and the Council of Five Hundred, had remained empty and devastated
since the 18th Brumaire. Since that day Bonaparte had more than
once cast his eyes on that ancient palace of royalty; but he knew
the importance of not arousing any suspicion that a future king
might dwell in the palace of the abolished monarchy.

Bonaparte had brought back from Italy a magnificent bust of Junius
Brutus; there was no suitable place for it at the Luxembourg, and
toward the end of November, Bonaparte had sent for the Republican,
David, and ordered him to place the bust in the gallery of the
Tuileries. Who could suppose that David, the friend of Marat,
was preparing the dwelling of a future emperor by placing the
bust of Cæsar's murderer in the gallery of the Tuileries? No one
did suppose, nor even suspect it.

When Bonaparte went to see if the bust were properly placed,
he noticed the havoc committed in the palace of Catherine of
Medicis. The Tuileries were no longer the abode of kings, it
is true, but they were a national palace, and the nation could
not allow one of its palaces to become dilapidated. Bonaparte
sent for citizen Lecomte, the architect, and ordered him to
_clean_ the Tuileries. The word might be taken in both senses
--moral and physical.

The architect was requested to send in an estimate of the cost
of the cleaning. It amounted to five hundred thousand francs.
Bonaparte asked if for that sum, the Tuileries could be converted
into a suitable "palace for the government." The architect replied
that the sum named would suffice not only to restore the Tuileries
to their former condition, but to make them habitable.

A habitable palace, that was all Bonaparte wanted. How should he,
a Republican, need regal luxury? The "palace of the government"
ought to be severely plain, decorated with marbles and statues
only. But what ought those statues to be? It was the First Consul's
duty to select them.

Accordingly, Bonaparte chose them from the three great ages and
the three great nations: from the Greeks, from the Romans, from
France and her rivals. From the Greeks he chose Alexander and
Demosthenes; the genius of conquest and the genius of eloquence.
From the Romans he chose Scipio, Cicero, Cato, Brutus and Cæsar,
placing the great victim side by side with the murderer, as great
almost as himself. From the modern world he chose Gustavus Adolphus,
Turenne, the great Condé, Duguay-Trouin, Marlborough, Prince
Eugene, and the Maréchal de Saxe; and, finally, the great Frederick
and George Washington--false philosophy upon a throne, and true
wisdom founding a free state.

To these he added warlike heroes--Dampierre, Dugommier, Joubert--to
prove that, while he did not fear the memory of a Bourbon in the
great Condé, neither was he jealous of his brothers-in-arms, the
victims of a cause already no longer his.

Matters were in this state at the period of which we are now
speaking; that is, the last of February, 1800. The Tuileries had
been cleaned, the busts were in their niches, the statues were
on their pedestals; and only a favorable occasion was wanting.

That occasion came when the news of Washington's death was received.
The founder of the liberty of the United States had ceased to
breathe on the 14th of December, 1799.

It was that event of which Bonaparte was thinking, when Bourrienne
saw by the expression of his face that he must be left entirely
to the reflections which absorbed him.

The carriage stopped before the Tuileries. Bonaparte sprang out
with the same haste with which he had entered it; went rapidly
up the stairs, and through the apartments, examining more
particularly those which had been inhabited by Louis XVI. and
Marie-Antoinette. In the private study of Louis XVI. he stopped
short.

"Here's where we will live, Bourrienne," he said, suddenly, as
if the latter had followed him through the mental labyrinth in
which he wandered, following the thread of Ariadne which we call
thought. "Yes, we will lodge here; the Third Consul can have the
Pavilion of Flora, and Cambacérès will remain at the Chancellerie."

"In that way," said Bourrienne, "when the time comes, you will
have only one to turn out."

"Come, come," said Bonaparte, catching Bourrienne by the ear,
"that's not bad."

"When shall we move in, general?" asked Bourrienne.

"Oh, not to-morrow; it will take at least a week to prepare the
Parisians to see me leave the Luxembourg for the Tuileries."

"Eight days," exclaimed Bourrienne; "that will do."

"Especially if we begin at once. Come, Bourrienne, to the
Luxembourg."

With the rapidity that characterized all his movements when serious
matters were in question, he passed through the suites of apartments
he had already visited, ran down the stairs, and sprang into the
carriage, calling out: "To the Luxembourg!"

"Wait, wait," cried Bourrienne, still in the vestibule; "general,
won't you wait for me?"

"Laggard!" exclaimed Bonaparte. And the carriage started, as it
had come, at a gallop.

When Bonaparte re-entered his study he found the minister of police
awaiting him.

"Well, what now, citizen Fouché? You look upset. Have I, perchance,
been assassinated?"

"Citizen First Consul," said the minister, "you seemed to attach
the utmost importance to the destruction of those bands who call
themselves the Companions of Jehu."

"Evidently, since I sent Roland himself to pursue them. Have you
any news of them?"

"We have."

"From whom?"

"Their leader himself."

"Their leader?"

"He has had the audacity to send me a report of their last exploit."

"Against whom?"

"The fifty thousand francs you sent to the Saint-Bernard fathers."

"What became of them?"

"The fifty thousand francs?"

"Yes."

"They are in the possession of those brigands, and their leader
informs me he will transfer them shortly to Cadoudal."

"Then Roland is killed?"

"No."

"How do you mean, no?"

"My agent is killed; Colonel Maurice is killed; but your aide-de-camp
is safe and sound."

"Then he will hang himself," said Bonaparte.

"What good would that do? The rope would break; you know his luck."

"Or his misfortune, yes--Where is the report?"

"You mean the letter?"

"Letter, report, thing--whatever it was that told you this news."

The minister handed the First Consul a paper inclosed in a perfumed
envelope.

"What's this?"

"The thing you asked for."

Bonaparte read the address: "To the citizen Fouché, minister
of police. Paris." Then he opened the letter, which contained
the following.

  CITIZEN MINISTER--I have the honor to inform you that the fifty
  thousand francs intended for the monks of Saint-Bernard came
  into our hands on the night of February 25, 1800 (old style),
  and that they will reach those of citizen Cadoudal within the
  week.

  The affair was well-managed, save for the deaths of your agent
  and Colonel Saint-Maurice. As for M. Roland de Montrevel, I have
  the satisfaction of informing you that nothing distressing has
  befallen him. I did not forget that he was good enough to receive
  me at the Luxembourg.

  I write you, citizen minister, because I presume that M. Roland
  de Montrevel is just now too much occupied in pursuing us to
  write you himself. But I am sure that at his first leisure moment
  you will receive from him a report containing all the details
  into which I cannot enter for lack of time and facilities for
  writing.

  In exchange for the service I render you, citizen minister, I
  will ask you to do one for me; namely, inform Madame de Montrevel,
  without delay, that her son is in safety.  MORGAN.

  Maison-Blanche, on the road from Mâcon to Lyons, Saturday, 9 P.M.

"Ha, the devil!" said Bonaparte; "a bold scamp!" Then he added,
with a sigh: "What colonels and captains those men would make me!"

"What are your orders, citizen First Consul?" asked the minister
of police.

"None; that concerns Roland. His honor is at stake; and, as he
is not killed, he will take his revenge."

"Then the First Consul will take no further notice of the affair?"

"Not for the present, at any rate." Then, turning to his secretary,
he added, "We have other fish to fry, haven't we, Bourrienne?"

Bourrienne nodded affirmatively.

"When does the First Consul wish to see me again?" asked the
minister.

"To-night, at ten o'clock. We move out in eight days."

"Where are you going?"

"To the Tuileries."

Fouché gave a start of amazement.

"Against your opinion, I know," said the First Consul; "but I'll
take the whole business on myself; you have only to obey."

Fouché bowed, and prepared to leave the room.

"By the way!" exclaimed Bonaparte.

Fouché turned round.

"Don't forget to notify Madame de Montrevel that her son is safe
and sound; that's the least you can do for citizen Morgan after
the service he has rendered you."

And he turned his back on the minister of police, who retired,
biting his lips till the blood came.




CHAPTER XLIV

CHANGE OF RESIDENCE

That same day, the First Consul, left alone with Bourrienne,
dictated the following order, addressed to the Consulate guard
and to the army at large:

  Washington is dead! That great man fought against tyranny. He
  consolidated the liberty of America. His memory will ever be dear
  to the French people, to all free men in both hemispheres, but
  especially to the French soldiers, who, like Washington and his
  soldiers, have fought for Liberty and Equality. Consequently, the
  First Consul orders that the flags and banners of the Republic
  shall be hung with crape for ten days.

But the First Consul did not intend to confine himself to this
order of the day.

Among the means he took to facilitate his removal from the Luxembourg
to the Tuileries was one of those fêtes by which he knew, none better,
how to amuse the eyes and also direct the minds of the spectator. This
fête was to take place at the Invalides, or, as they said in those
days, the Temple of Mars. A bust of Washington was to be crowned, and
the flags of Aboukir were to be received from the hands of General
Lannes.

It was one of those combinations which Bonaparte thoroughly
understood--a flash of lightning drawn from the contact of
contrasting facts. He presented the great man of the New World,
and a great victory of the old; young America coupled with the
palms of Thebes and Memphis.

On the day fixed for the ceremony, six thousand cavalry were
in line from the Luxembourg to the Invalides. At eight o'clock,
Bonaparte mounted his horse in the main courtyard of the Consular
palace; issuing by the Rue de Tournon he took the line of the
quays, accompanied by a staff of generals, none of whom were
over thirty-five years of age.

Lannes headed the procession; behind him were sixty Guides
bearing the sixty captured flags; then came Bonaparte about
two horse's-lengths ahead of his staff.

The minister of war, Berthier, awaited the procession under the
dome of the temple. He leaned against a statue of Mars at rest,
and the ministers and councillors of state were grouped around
him. The flags of Denain and Fontenoy, and those of the first
campaign in Italy, were already suspended from the columns which
supported the roof. Two centenarian "Invalids" who had fought
beside Maréchal Saxe were standing, one to the right and one
to the left of Berthier, like caryatides of an ancient world,
gazing across the centuries. To the right, on a raised platform,
was the bust of Washington, which was now to be draped with the
flags of Aboukir. On another platform, opposite to the former,
stood Bonaparte's armchair.

On each side of the temple were tiers of seats in which was gathered
all the elegant society of Paris, or rather that portion of it which
gave its adhesion to the order of ideas then to be celebrated.

When the flags appeared, the trumpets blared, their metallic sounds
echoing through the arches of the temple,

Lannes entered first. At a sign from him, the Guides mounted
two by two the steps of the platform and placed the staffs of
the flags in the holders prepared for them. During this time
Bonaparte took his place in the chair,

Then Lannes advanced to the minister of war, and, in that voice
that rang out so clearly on the battlefield, crying "Forward!"
he said:

"Citizen minister, these are the flags of the Ottoman army, destroyed
before your eyes at Aboukir. The army of Egypt, after crossing
burning deserts, surviving thirst and hunger, found itself before
an enemy proud of his numbers and his victories, and believing
that he saw an easy prey in our troops, exhausted by their march
and incessant combats. He had yet to learn that the French soldier
is greater because he knows how to suffer than because he knows how
to vanquish, and that his courage rises and augments in danger.
Three thousand Frenchmen, as you know, fell upon eighteen thousand
barbarians, broke their ranks, forced them back, pressed them
between our lines and the sea; and the terror of our bayonets
is such that the Mussulmans, driven to choose a death, rushed
into the depths of the Mediterranean.

"On that memorable day hung the destinies of Egypt, France and
Europe, and they were saved by your courage,

"Allied Powers! if you dare to violate French territory, and if
the general who was given back to us by the victory of Aboukir
makes an appeal to the nation--Allied Powers! I say to you, that
your successes would be more fatal to you than disasters! What
Frenchman is there who would not march to victory again under
the banners of the First Consul, or serve his apprenticeship to
fame with him?"

Then, addressing the "Invalids," for whom the whole lower gallery
had been reserved, he continued in a still more powerful voice:

"And you, brave veterans, honorable victims of the fate of battles,
you will not be the last to flock under the orders of him who
knows your misfortunes and your glory, and who now delivers to
your keeping these trophies won by your valor. Ah, I know you,
veterans, you burn to sacrifice the half of your remaining lives
to your country and its freedom!"

This specimen of the military eloquence of the conqueror of
Montebello was received with deafening applause. Three times
the minister of war endeavored to make reply; and three times
the bravos cut him short. At last, however, silence came, and
Berthier expressed himself as follows:

"To raise on the banks of the Seine these trophies won on the
banks of the Nile; to hang beneath the domes of our temples,
beside the flags of Vienna, of Petersburg, of London, the banners
blessed in the mosques of Byzantium and Cairo; to see them here,
presented by the same warriors, young in years, old in glory,
whom Victory has so often crowned--these things are granted only
to Republican France.

"Yet this is but a part of what he has done, that hero, in the
flower of his age covered with the laurels of Europe, he, who
stood a victor before the Pyramids, from the summits of which
forty centuries looked down upon him while, surrounded by his
warriors and learned men, he emancipated the native soil of art
and restored to it the lights of civilization.

"Soldiers, plant in this temple of the warrior virtues those
ensigns of the Crescent, captured on the rocks of Canopus by
three thousand Frenchmen from eighteen thousand Ottomans, as
brave as they were barbarous. Let them bear witness, not to the
valor of the French soldier--the universe itself resounds to
that--but to his unalterable constancy, his sublime devotion.
Let the sight of these banners console you, veteran warriors,
you, whose bodies, gloriously mutilated on the field of honor,
deprive your courage of other exercise than hope and prayer.
Let them proclaim from that dome above us, to all the enemies
of France, the influence of genius, the value of the heroes who
captured them; forewarning of the horrors of war all those who
are deaf to our offers of peace. Yes, if they will have war,
they shall have it--war, terrible and unrelenting!

"The nation, satisfied, regards the Army of the East with pride.

"That invincible army will learn with joy that the First Consul is
watchful of its glory. It is the object of the keenest solicitude
on the part of the Republic. It will hear with pride that we have
honored it in our temples, while awaiting the moment when we
shall imitate, if need be, on the fields of Europe, the warlike
virtues it has displayed on the burning sands of Africa and Asia.

"Come, in the name of that army, intrepid general, come in the
name of those heroes among whom you now appear, and receive an
embrace in token of the national gratitude.

"And in the moment when we again take up our arms in defence of
our independence (if the blind fury of kings refuses the peace we
offer), let us cast a branch of laurel on the ashes of Washington,
that hero who freed America from the yoke of our worst and most
implacable enemy. Let his illustrious shade tell us of the glory
which follows a nation's liberator beyond the grave!"

Bonaparte now came down from his platform, and in the name of
France was embraced by Berthier.

M. de Fontanes, who was appointed to pronounce the eulogy on
Washington, waited courteously until the echoes of the torrent
of applause, which seemed to fall in cascades through the vast
amphitheatre, had died away. In the midst of these glorious
individualities, M. de Fontanes was a curiosity, half political,
half literary. After the 18th Fructidor he was proscribed with
Suard and Laharpe; but, being perfectly hidden in a friend's
house, and never going out except at night, he managed to avoid
leaving France. Nevertheless, an accident, impossible to foresee,
had betrayed him. He was knocked down one night on the Place du
Carrousel by a runaway horse, and was recognized by a policeman,
who ran to his assistance. But Fouché, who was at once informed,
not only of his presence in France, but also of his actual
hiding-place, pretended to know nothing of him.

A few days after the 18th Brumaire, Maret, who became later the
Duc de Bassano, Laplace, who continued to be simply a man of
science, and Regnault de Saint-Jean-d'Angely, who died mad, spoke
to the First Consul of M. de Fontanes and of his presence in
Paris,

"Present him to me," replied the First Consul simply.

M. de Fontanes was presented to Bonaparte, who, recognizing his
supple nature and the unctuous flattery of his eloquence, chose
him to deliver the eulogy on Washington, and perhaps something
of his own at the same time.

M. de Fontanes' address was too long to be reported here; all that
we shall say about it is, that it was precisely what Bonaparte
desired.

That evening there was a grand reception at the Luxembourg. During
the ceremony a rumor was spread that the First Consul contemplated
removing to the Tuileries. Persons who were either bold or curious
ventured on a few words to Josephine. She, poor woman, who still
saw before her the tumbrel and the scaffold of Marie Antoinette,
had an instinctive horror of all that might connect her with
royalty; she therefore hesitated to reply and referred all questions
to her husband.

Then another rumor began to be bruited about which served as a
counterpoise to the former. Murat, it was said, had asked the
hand of Mademoiselle Caroline Bonaparte in marriage. But this
marriage was not without its obstacles; Bonaparte had had a quarrel,
lasting over a year, with the man who aspired to the honor of
becoming his brother-in-law. The cause of this quarrel will seem
rather strange to our readers.

Murat, the lion of the army; Murat, whose courage had become
proverbial; Murat, who might well have been taken by a sculptor
as a model for the god of war; Murat, on one occasion, when he
must have slept ill or breakfasted badly, had a moment of weakness.

It happened before Mantua, in which city Wurmser, after the battle
of Rivoli, was forced to shut himself up with twenty-eight thousand
men; General Miollis, with four thousand only, was investing
the place. During a sortie attempted by the Austrians, Murat,
at the head of five hundred men, received an order to charge
three thousand. Murat charged, but feebly. Bonaparte, whose
aide-de-camp he then was, was so irritated that he would not
suffer him to remain about him. This was a great blow to Murat,
all the more because he was at that time desirous of becoming
the general's brother-in-law; he was deeply in love with Caroline
Bonaparte.

How had that love come about? It can be told in two words. Perhaps
those who read our books singly are surprised that we sometimes
dwell on certain details which seem somewhat long drawn out for
the book in which they appear. The fact is, we are not writing
isolated books, but, as we have already said, we are filling,
or trying to fill, an immense frame. To us, the presence of our
characters is not limited to their appearance in one book. The
man you meet in one book may be a king in a second volume, and
exiled or shot in a third.

Balzac did a great and noble work with a hundred aspects, and
he called it the "Comédie Humaine." Our work, begun at the same
time as his--although, be it understood, we do not praise it--may
fitly be called "The Drama of France."

Now, let us return to Murat, and tell how this love, which had
so glorious and, possibly, so fatal an influence on his destiny,
came to him.

In 1796, Murat was sent to Paris, charged with the duty of presenting
to the Directory the flags and banners taken by the French army at
the battles of Dego and Mondovi. During this voyage he made the
acquaintance of Madame Bonaparte and Madame Tallien. At Madame
Bonaparte's house he again met Mademoiselle Caroline Bonaparte.
We say _again_, for that was not the first time he had met
the woman who was to share the crown of Naples with him. They
had met in Rome, at her brother's house, and, in spite of the
rivalry of a young and handsome Roman prince, she had shown him
a marked preference.

The three women combined to obtain for him the rank of general of
brigade from the Directory. Murat returned to the Army of Italy,
more in love than ever, and, in spite of his new rank, he solicited
and obtained the favor of remaining with the general-in-chief
as aide-de-camp. Unhappily, the fatal sortie took place soon
after, in consequence of which he fell in disgrace with Bonaparte.
This disgrace had for awhile all the characteristics of actual
enmity. Bonaparte dismissed him from his service as aide-de-camp,
and transferred him to Neille's division, and then to that of
Baraguey-d'Hilliers. The result was, that when Bonaparte returned
to Paris after the treaty of Tolentino, Murat did not accompany
him.

This did not at all suit the female triumvirate, who had taken
the young general under its direction. The beautiful intriguers
entered into the campaign, and as the expedition to Egypt was
then preparing, they induced the minister of war to send Murat
with it. He embarked in the same ship as Bonaparte, namely the
"Orient," but the latter did not address a single word to him
during the voyage. After they reached Alexandria, Murat was at
first unable to break the icy barrier opposed to him by the general,
who, more to put him at a distance from his own person than to
give him an opportunity to distinguish himself, confronted him
with Mourad Bey. But, during that campaign, Murat performed such
prodigies of valor that he effaced, by such bravery, the memory
of that momentary weakness; he charged so intrepidly, so madly
at Aboukir, that Bonaparte had not the heart to bear him further
malice.

Consequently Murat had returned to France with Bonaparte. He
had powerfully co-operated with him on the 18th and especially
on the 19th Brumaire. He was, therefore, restored to full favor,
and, as a proof of that favor, had received the command of the
Consular guard.

He thought this the moment to declare his love, a love already
well-known to Josephine, who favored it; for which she had two
reasons. In the first place, she was a woman in the most charming
acceptation of the word; that is to say, all the gentler passions
of women were attractive to her. Joachim loved Caroline, Caroline
loved Joachim; that was enough to make her wish to protect their
love. In the second place, Bonaparte's brothers detested Josephine;
Joseph and Lucien were her bitterest enemies, and she was not
sorry to make herself two ardent friends in Caroline and Murat.
She therefore encouraged the latter to approach Bonaparte on
the subject.

Three days before the ceremony we have just described, Murat
had entered Bonaparte's study, and, after endless hesitation and
circumlocution, had proffered his request.

It is probable that the love of the young pair was no news to
Bonaparte, who, however, received it with stern gravity, and
contented himself with replying that he would think it over.
The matter, in fact, required thinking over. Bonaparte came of
a noble family, Murat was the son of an innkeeper. The alliance
at such a moment might have great significance. Was the First
Consul, in spite of his noble birth, in spite of the exalted
rank to which he had raised himself, not only sufficiently
republican, but also sufficiently democratic to mingle his blood
with that of the common people.

He did not reflect long; his strong, good sense, and his logical
mind, told him that he had every interest in allowing the marriage,
and he gave his consent to it the same day.

The double news of this marriage and of the removal to the Tuileries
was launched on the public at the same time; the one was to
counterpoise the other. The First Consul was about to occupy the
palace of the former kings, to sleep in the bed of the Bourbons,
as they said at that time, but he gave his sister to the son of
an innkeeper!

And now, it may be asked, what dowry did the future Queen of
Naples bring to the hero of Aboukir? Thirty thousand francs and
a diamond necklace, which the First Consul took from his wife,
being too poor to buy one. Josephine, who was very fond of her
necklace, pouted a little; but the gift, thus obtained, was a
triumphant reply to those who claimed that Bonaparte had made
a fortune in Italy; besides, why had she taken the interests
of the young couple so to heart? She had insisted on marrying
them, and she ought to contribute to the dowry.

The result of this clever combination was that on the day when
the Consuls left the Luxembourg for the "palace of the government,"
escorted by the _son of an innkeeper_, soon to be Bonaparte's
brother-in-law, it did not occur to those who saw the procession
pass to do otherwise than admire and applaud. And, in truth,
what could be more admirable and worthy of applause than those
processions, which had at their head such men as Murat, Moreau,
Junot, Duroc, Augereau, and Masséna?

A grand review had been ordered to take place that same day in the
square of the Carrousel. Madame Bonaparte was to be present--not,
to be sure, in the balcony of the clock-tower, that being evidently
too royal, but at the window of Lebrun's apartment in the Pavilion
of Flora.

Bonaparte started at one o'clock precisely from the Luxembourg,
escorted by three thousand picked men, among them the splendid
regiment of the Guides, created three years earlier as a bodyguard
to Bonaparte during the Italian campaign, in consequence of a
great danger he had escaped on one occasion. He was resting in
a small château, after the exhaustion attendant upon the passage
of the Mincio, and was preparing to take a bath, when a retreating
Austrian detachment, losing its way, invaded the château, which
had no other guard than the sentries. Bonaparte had barely time
to escape in his shirt.

A curious difficulty, which deserves to be recorded, arose on the
morning of this removal, which took place the 30th Pluviose, year
VIII. The generals, of course, had their horses and the ministers
their carriages, but the other functionaries had not yet judged
it expedient to go to such an expense. Carriages were therefore
lacking. They were supplied from the hackney coach-stands, and
slips of paper of the same color as the carriages were pasted
over their numbers.

The carriage of the First Consul alone was harnessed with six
white horses, but as the three consuls were in the same carriage,
Bonaparte and Cambacérès on the front seat, and Lebrun on the
back, it was, after all, but two horses apiece. Besides, were
not these six white horses given to the commander-in-chief by
the Emperor Francis himself, after the treaty of Campo-Formio,
a trophy in themselves?

The carriage crossed a part of Paris, following the Rue de
Thionville, the Quai Voltaire, and the Pont-Royal. From the archway
of the Carrousel to the great portal of the Tuileries the Consular
guard lined the way. As Bonaparte passed through the archway, he
raised his head and read the inscription it bore. That inscription
was as follows:

          AUGUST 10, 1792.
  ROYALTY IS ABOLISHED IN FRANCE
    AND SHALL NEVER RISE AGAIN.

An almost imperceptible smile flickered on the First Consul's
lips.

At the door of the Tuileries, Bonaparte left the carriage and
sprang into the saddle to review the troops. When he appeared
on his war-horse the applause burst forth wildly on all sides.

After the review was over, he placed himself in front of the
clock-tower, with Murat on his right, Lannes at his left, and
the glorious staff of the Army of Italy behind him. Then began
the march past.

And now it was that one of those inspirations came to him which
engrave themselves forever on the hearts of soldiers. As the
flags of the 30th, the 96th, and the 33d demi-brigades were borne
past him, and he saw that, of those banners, there remained but
a stick and a few rags, riddled with balls and blackened with
powder, he took his hat from his head and bowed.

Then, when the march was over, he dismounted from his horse,
and, with a firm step, he walked up the grand stairway of the
Valois and the Bourbons.

That night, when he was alone with Bourrienne, the latter asked:
"Well, general, are you satisfied?"

"Yes," replied Bonaparte, dreamily, "everything went off nicely,
didn't it?"

"Wonderfully well."

"I saw you standing near Madame Bonaparte at the ground-floor
window of the Pavilion of Flora."

"I saw you, too, general; you were reading the inscription on
the arch of the Carrousel."

"Yes," said Bonaparte, "'August 10,1792. Royalty is abolished
in France, and shall never rise again.'"

"Shall I have it removed?" asked Bourrienne.

"Useless," replied the First Consul, "it will fall of itself."
Then, with a sigh, he added: "Bourrienne, do you know whom I
missed to-day?"

"No, general."

"Roland. What the devil is he doing that he doesn't give me any
news of himself?"

We are about to see what Roland was doing.




CHAPTER XLV

THE FOLLOWER OF TRAILS

The reader will not have forgotten the situation in which the
escort of chasseurs found the Chambéry mail-coach.

The first thing they did was to look for the obstacle which prevented
Roland from getting out. They found the padlock and wrenched off
the door.

Roland bounded from the coach like a tiger from its cage. We have
said that the ground was covered with snow. Roland, hunter and
soldier, had but one idea--to follow the trail of the Companions
of Jehu. He had seen them disappear in the direction of Thoissy;
but he believed they were not likely to continue in that direction
because, between them and the little town ran the Saône, and
there were no bridges across the river between Belleville and
Mâcon. He ordered the escort and the conductor to wait for him
on the highroad, and alone and on foot, without even waiting
to reload his pistols, he started on the tracks of Morgan and
his companions.

He was not mistaken. A mile from the highroad the fugitives had
come to the river; there they had halted, probably deliberating,
for the trampling of their horses' hoofs was plainly visible; then
they had separated into two troops, one going up the river to
Mâcon, and the other descending it in the direction of Belleville.

This separation was doubtless intended to puzzle their pursuers,
if they were pursued. Roland had heard the parting call of the
leader: "To-morrow night, you know where!" He had no doubt,
therefore, that whichever trail he followed, whether up or down--if
the snow did not melt too fast--would lead him to the rendezvous,
where, either together or singly, the Companions of Jehu were
certain to assemble.

He returned upon his own tracks, ordered the conductor to put
on the boots thrown aside by the pretended postilion, mount the
horse and take the coach to the next relay, namely Belleville.
The sergeant of chasseurs and four of his men, who knew how to
write, were to accompany the conductor and sign his report of
what had occurred. Roland forbade all mention of himself and
where he had gone, lest the brigands should get word of his future
plans. The rest of the escort were to carry back their colonel's
body, and make deposition on their own account, along the same
lines as the conductor, to the authorities, and equally without
mention of Roland.

These orders given, the young man dismounted a chasseur and took
his horse, selecting the one he thought most serviceable. Then
he reloaded his pistols, and put them in the holsters in place
of the regulation weapons of the dismounted chasseur. Having
done this, and promised the conductor and the chasseurs a speedy
vengeance, conditioned, however, on their keeping his present
proceedings secret, he mounted the horse and rode off in the
direction he had already investigated.

When he reached the spot where the two troops had separated,
he had to decide between the different trails. He chose that
which descended the Saône toward Belleville. He had excellent
reason for making this choice, although it might possibly take
him out of his way for six or eight miles. In the first place he
was nearer Belleville than Mâcon; then he had spent twenty-four
hours at Mâcon, and might be recognized there, whereas he had
never stopped at Belleville longer than the time required to
change horses when accident brought him there by post.

The events we have just recorded had taken barely an hour to
happen. Eight o'clock was striking from the church clock at
Thoissy when Roland started in pursuit of the fugitives. The
way was plain; five or six horses had left their imprint on
the snow; one of these horses had paced.

Roland jumped the two or three brooks which watered the space
he had to cross to reach Belleville. A hundred yards from the
town he paused, for here the trail separated again; two of the
six travellers had turned to the right, that is to say, they
had struck away from the river, the four others to the left,
continuing on their way to Belleville. At the outskirts of the
town, another secession had taken place; three of the riders
had gone round the town, one had entered it.

Roland followed the latter, sure that he could recover the traces
of the others. The one who had entered the town and followed
the main street had stopped at a pretty house between court and
garden, numbered 67. He had rung and some one had let him in;
for through the iron grating could be seen traces of footsteps,
and beside them the tracks of a horse being led to the stable.

It was quite evident that one, at least, of the Companions of Jehu
had stopped there. By going to the mayor of the town, exhibiting
his authority, and asking for gendarmes, Roland could have arrested
him at once. But that was not his object; he did not wish to arrest
a solitary individual; he wanted to catch the whole company in
a trap.

He made a note in his mind of No. 67, and continued on his way.
He crossed the entire town and rode a few hundred paces beyond
it without meeting any fresh traces. He was about to return,
when it occurred to him that, if the tracks of the three riders
reappeared anywhere, it would be at the head of the bridge. And
there, sure enough, he found the hoof-prints of three horses,
which were undoubtedly those he sought, for one of them paced.

Roland galloped in pursuit. On reaching Monceaux--same precaution,
the riders had skirted the village; but Roland was too good a
scout to trouble himself about that. He kept on his way, and at
the other end of Monceaux he recovered the fugitives' tracks. Not
far from Châtillon one of the three horses had left the highroad,
turning to the right toward a little château, standing on a hill
a short distance from the road between Châtillon and Trévoux.
This time the three remaining riders, evidently believing they
had done enough to mislead any one who might be following, had
kept straight on through Châtillon and taken the road to Neuville.

The direction taken by the fugitives was eminently satisfactory
to Roland; they were undoubtedly on their way to Bourg; if they
had not intended to go there they would have taken the road to
Marlieux. Now, Bourg was the headquarters Roland had himself
chosen for the centre of his own operations; it was his own town,
and he knew, with the minuteness of boyish knowledge, every bush,
every ruin, every cavern in the neighborhood.

At Neuville the riders had skirted the village. Roland did not
trouble himself about a ruse, already known and thwarted; but on
the other side he found but one trail. He could not be mistaken
in that horse, however; it was the pacer. Certain of recovering
the trail again, Roland retraced his steps. The two riders had
separated at a road leading off to Vannes; one had taken that
road, the other had skirted the village, which, as we have said,
was on the road to Bourg. This was the one to follow; besides,
the gait of the horse made it easier, as it could not be confused
with any other. Moreover, he was on his way to Bourg, and between
Neuville and Bourg there was but one other village, that of
Saint-Denis. For the rest, it was not probable that the solitary
rider intended to go further than Bourg.

Roland continued on his way with more eagerness than ever, convinced
that he was nearing the end. In fact the rider had not skirted
Bourg, but had boldly entered the town. There, it seemed to Roland
that the man had hesitated, unless this hesitation were a last ruse
to hide his tracks. But after ten minutes spent in following his
devious tracks Roland was sure of his facts; it was not trickery
but hesitation.

The print of a man's steps came from a side street; the traveller
and the pedestrian had conferred together for a moment, and then
the former had evidently employed the latter as a guide. From
that point on, the footsteps of a man went side by side with
those of the horse. Both came to an end at the hôtel de la
Belle-Alliance. Roland remembered that the horse wounded in the
attack at Les Carronnières had been brought to this inn. In all
probability there was some connivance between the inn-keeper
and the Companion of Jehu. For the rest, in all probability the
rider would stay there until the next evening. Roland felt by
his own fatigue that the man he was following must need rest.
And Roland, in order not to force his horse and the better to
reconnoitre the tracks he was following, had taken six hours
to do thirty miles.

Three o'olock was striking from the truncated bell-tower of
Nôtre-Dame. Roland debated what to do. Should he stop at some
inn in the town? Impossible, he was too well known in Bourg;
besides, his horse with its cavalry saddle-cloth would excite
suspicion. It was one of the conditions of success that his presence
at Bourg should remain unknown.

He could hide at the Château des Noires-Fontaines and keep on
the watch, but could he trust the servants? Michel and Jacques
would hold their tongues, Roland was sure of them; but Charlotte,
the jailer's daughter, she might gossip. However, it was three
o'clock in the morning, every one was asleep, and the safest
plan was certainly to put himself in communication with Michel.
Michel would find some way of concealing his presence.

To the deep regret of his horse, who had no doubt scented a stable,
Roland wheeled about and rode off in the direction of Pont-d'Ain.
As he passed the church of Brou he glanced at the barrack of the
gendarmes, where, in all probability, they and their captain
were sleeping the sleep of the righteous.

Roland cut through the little strip of forest which jutted into the
road. The snow deadened the sound of his horse's hoofs. Branching
into the road from the other side, he saw two men slinking along in
the ditch, carrying a deer slung by its forelegs to a sapling. He
thought he recognized the cut of the two men, and he spurred his
horse to overtake them. The men were on the watch; they turned,
saw the rider, who was evidently making for them, flung the animal
into the ditch, and made for the shelter of the forest of Seillon.

"Hey, Michel!" cried Roland, more and more convinced that he had
to do with his own gardener.

Michel stopped short; the other man kept on his way across the
fields.

"Hey, Jacques!" shouted Roland.

The other man stopped. If they were recognized, it was useless
to fly; besides, there was nothing hostile in the call; the voice
was friendly, rather than threatening.

"Bless me!" said Jacques, "it sounds like M. Roland."

"I do believe it is he," said Michel.

And the two men, instead of continuing their flight, returned
to the highroad.

Roland had not heard what the two poachers had said, but he had
guessed.

"Hey, the deuce! of course it is I," he shouted.

A minute more and Michel and Jacques were beside him. The questions
of father and son were a crossfire, and it must be owned they
had good reason for amazement. Roland, in civilian's dress, on
a cavalry horse, at three in the morning, on the road from Bourg
to the château! The young officer cut short all questions.

"Silence, poachers!" said he, "put that deer behind me and be off
at trot to the château. No one must know of my presence there,
not even my sister."

Roland spoke with military precision, and both men knew that
when he gave an order there was no replying. They picked up the
deer, put it behind his saddle, and followed the gentle trot
of the horse at a run. There was less than a mile to do, and
it took but ten minutes. At a short distance from the château,
Roland pulled up. The two men went forward as scouts to see if
all were quiet. Satisfied on that point, they made a sign to
Roland to advance.

Roland came, dismounted, found the door of the lodge open, and
entered. Michel took the horse to the stable and carried the deer
to the kitchen; for Michel belonged to that honorable class of
poachers, who kill game for the pleasure of killing, and not for
the selfish interest of sale. There was no need for precaution,
either for horse or deer; for Amélie took no more notice of what
went on in the stable than of what they served her to eat.

During this time Jacques lighted the fire. When Michel returned
he brought the remains of a leg of mutton and some eggs for an
omelet. Jacques made up a bed in the office.

Roland warmed himself and ate his supper without saying a word.
The two men looked at each other with an astonishment that was not
devoid of a certain degree of anxiety. A rumor of the expedition
to Seillon had got about, and it was whispered that Roland had led
it. Apparently, he had returned for another similar expedition.

When Roland had finished his supper he looked up and saw Michel.

"Ah! so there you are?" he exclaimed.

"I am waiting for Monsieur's orders."

"Here they are; listen carefully."

"I'm all ears."

"It's a question of life or death; of more than that, of my honor."

"Speak, Monsieur Roland."

Roland pulled out his watch.

"It is now five o'clock. When the inn of the Belle-Alliance opens,
be there, as if you were just sauntering by; then stop a minute
to chat with whoever opens it."

"That will probably be Pierre."

"Pierre or another; find out from him who the traveller is who
arrived last night on a pacing horse. You know what pacing is,
don't you?"

"The deuce! You mean a horse that goes like a bear, both feet
forward at the same time."

"Bravo! You can also find out whether the traveller is leaving
this morning, or whether he proposes to spend the day at the
hotel, can't you?"

"Of course I can find that out."

"Well, when you have found out all that, come and tell me; but
remember, not a word about my being here. If any one asks about
me, say that they had a letter from me yesterday, and that I
was in Paris with the First Consul."

"That's understood."

Michel departed. Roland went to bed and to sleep, leaving Jacques
to guard the building.

When Roland awoke Michel had returned. He had found out all that
his master desired to know. The horseman who had arrived in the
night was to leave the next morning, and on the travellers' register,
which every innkeeper was obliged by law to keep in those days,
was entered: "Saturday, 30th Pluviose, _ten at night_; the
citizen Valensolle, from Lyons going to Geneva." Thus the alibi
was prepared; for the register would prove that the citizen
Valensolle had arrived at ten o'clock, and it was impossible
that he could have assisted in robbing the mail-coach near the
Maison-Blanche at half-past eight and yet have reached the Hotel
de la Belle-Alliance at ten.

But what impressed Roland the most was that the man he had followed
through the night, and whose name and retreat he had just discovered,
was none other than the second of Alfred de Barjols, whom he
himself had killed in a duel near the fountain of Vaucluse; and
that that second was, in all probability, the man who had played
the part of ghost at the Chartreuse of Seillon.

So, then, the Companions of Jehu were not mere thieves, but,
on the contrary, as rumor said, gentlemen of good family, who,
while the noble Bretons were laying down their lives for the
royalist cause in the West, were, here in the East, braving the
scaffold to send to the combatants the money they took from the
government.




CHAPTER XLVI

AN INSPIRATION

We have seen that during the pursuit of the preceding night Roland
could have arrested one or two of the men he was pursuing. He
could now do the same with M. de Valensolle, who was probably,
like Roland himself, taking a day's rest after a night of great
fatigue.

To do it he had only to write a line to the captain of gendarmes,
or to the colonel of dragoons, who had assisted him during that
ineffectual search at Seillon. Their honor was concerned in the
affair. They could instantly surprise M. de Valensolle in bed,
and at the cost of two pistol shots--two men killed or wounded--he
would be taken.

But M. de Valensolle's arrest would give warning to the rest of
the band, who would instantly put themselves in safety beyond
the frontier. It was better, therefore, to keep to his first
idea; to go slowly, to follow the different trails which must
converge to one centre, and, at the risk of a general engagement,
throw a net over the whole company.

To do that, M. de Valensolle must not be arrested. It was better
to follow him on his pretended journey to Geneva, which was probably
but a blind to foil investigation. It was therefore agreed that
Roland, whose disguise, however good, was liable to be penetrated,
should remain at the lodge, and Michel and Jacques should head
off the game. In all probabilities, M. de Valensolle would not
set out from the inn before nightfall.

Roland made inquiries of Michel about the life his sister had
led since her mother's departure. He learned that she had never
once left the grounds during that time. Her habits were still the
same, except for the walks and visits she had made with Madame
de Montrevel.

She rose at seven or eight in the morning, sketched or practiced
her music till breakfast, and afterward read or employed herself
at some kind of embroidery, or took advantage of the sunshine to
go out with Charlotte to the river. Sometimes she bade Michel
unfasten the little boat, and then, well wrapped in furs, would
row up the Reissouse as far as Montagnac or down to Saint-Just.
During these trips she spoke to no one. Then she dined. After
dinner, she retired to her bedroom and did not appear again.

By half-past six, therefore, Michel and Jacques could decamp
without arousing any suspicion as to their where-about; and,
accordingly, at that hour they took their blouses, game-bags
and guns, and started. Roland had given them their instructions.
They were to follow the pacing horse until they had ascertained
his destination, or until they had lost all trace of him. Michel
was to lie in wait opposite the inn of the Belle-Alliance; Jacques
was to station himself outside of Bourg, just where the main road
divides into three branches, one going to Saint-Amour, another
to Saint-Claude, and the third to Nantua. This last was at the
same time the highroad to Geneva. It was evident that unless M.
de Valensolle returned upon his steps, which was not probable,
he would take one or another of these three roads.

The father started in one direction, the son in another. Michel
went toward the town by the road to Pont-d'Ain, passing the church
of Brou. Jacques crossed the Reissouse, followed the right bank of
the little river, and found himself, after walking a few hundred
yards beyond the town, at the sharp angle made by the parting of
the three roads. Father and son reached their separate posts
at about the same time.

At this particular moment, that is to say, about seven o'clock, the
stillness and solitude surrounding the Château des Noires-Fontaines
was broken by the arrival of a post-chaise, which stopped before
the iron gate. A servant in livery got off the box and pulled
the chain of the bell.

It was Michel's business to open the gate, but Michel was away,
as we know. Amélie and Charlotte probably counted on him, for
the bell was rung three times before any one answered it. At
last the maid appeared at the head of the stairs calling Michel.
Michel made no reply. Finally, protected by the locked gates,
Charlotte ventured to approach them. In spite of the obscurity
she recognized the servant.

"Ah, is it you, Monsieur James?" she cried, somewhat reassured.
James was Sir John's confidential valet.

"Yes, mademoiselle, it is I, or rather it is Sir John."

The carriage door opened at this moment, and his master's voice
was heard saying: "Mademoiselle Charlotte, will you tell your
mistress that I have just arrived from Paris, that I have called
to leave my card, and to ask permission, not to be received this
evening, but to be allowed to call to-morrow, if she will grant
me that favor. Ask her at what hour I shall least inconvenience
her."

Mademoiselle Charlotte had a high opinion of Sir John, consequently
she acquitted herself of the commission with the utmost alacrity.
Five minutes later she returned to announce that Sir John would
be received the next day between twelve and one o'clock.

Roland knew what the Englishman had come for. In his mind the
marriage was an accomplished fact, and he regarded Sir John already
as his brother-in-law. He hesitated a moment as to whether he
should or should not make himself known to Sir John, and tell
his friend about his projects; but he reflected that Sir John
was not a man to let him work them out alone. He, too, had a
revenge to take on the Companions of Jehu; he would certainly
insist on taking part in the expedition, whatever it was. And that
expedition, however it might result, was certain to be dangerous,
and another disaster might befall him. Roland's luck, as Roland
well knew, did not extend to his friends. Sir John, grievously
wounded, had barely escaped with his life, and the colonel of
dragoons had been killed outright. He therefore allowed Sir John
to drive away without giving any sign of his own proximity.

As for Charlotte, she did not seem in the least surprised that
Michel was not there to open the gate. Evidently they were accustomed
to his absences, and they did not disturb either the mistress
or the maid. For the rest, Roland knew his sister well enough
to understand this indifference. Amélie, feeble under a moral
suffering wholly unsuspected by Roland, who attributed to simple
nervous crises the fluctuations of his sister's character, Amélie
was strong and brave before real danger. That was no doubt why
she felt no fear about remaining with Charlotte alone in the
lonely house, without other protection than that afforded by the
two gardeners, who spent their nights in poaching.

As for ourselves, we know that Michel and his son did really
serve their mistress' desire more in absenting themselves thus
frequently from the château than in staying [near] it. Their
absence left the coast clear for Morgan, [and that] was all Amélie
really cared about.

That evening and part of the night went by without bringing Roland
any news. He tried to sleep, but succeeded ill. He fancied every
minute that he heard some one at the door. The day was just beginning
to glimmer through the shutters when the door did actually open.
Michel and Jacques were returning, and this is what had happened
to them:

They had each gone to his post, Michel at the inn door, Jacques
to the junction of the roads. Twenty paces from the door Michel
had met Pierre, and three words sufficed to show him that M. de
Valensolle was still at the inn. The latter had announced that,
as he had a long journey before him, he would let his horse rest
and would not start until nightfall. Pierre did not doubt that
he was going to Geneva, as he said.

Michel proposed a glass of wine to Pierre. Pierre accepted. After
that, Michel was sure of being warned of any change. Pierre was
the hostler, and nothing could be done in the stable without
his knowledge. A lad attached to the inn promised to convey the
news to Michel, in return for which Michel gave him three charges
of powder with which to make firecrackers.

At midnight the traveller had not yet started; they had drunk
four bottles of wine, but Michel had partaken sparingly of them.
He had found means to pour three of the four bottles into Pierre's
glass, where they did not long remain. At midnight the wine-shop
closed, and Michel having nowhere to go for the four hours that
still remained until daybreak, Pierre offered him a bed of straw in
the stable. Michel accepted. The two friends went back arm-in-arm;
Pierre staggering, Michel pretending to stagger.

At three o'clock in the morning the servant of the hotel awakened
Michel. The traveller wanted his horse. Michel, pretending that
he must be off to see to his game, also rose. His toilet was not
long in making; he had only to shake the straw from his hair,
game-bag, and blouse, after which he took leave of his friend
Pierre and hid himself at the corner of the street.

Fifteen minutes later the gate opened and a man rode out on a
pacing horse. It was M. de Valensolle. He took the street that
led to the Geneva road. Michel followed without concealment,
whistling a hunting air. Only, as Michel could not run for fear
of attracting the rider's notice, he lost sight of him before
long. But Jacques was there, thought he, waiting at the fork of
the roads. Yes, Jacques had been there, but he had been there
for over six hours of a winter's night, in five degrees of cold.
Had he the courage to stand six hours in the snow and kick his
soles against a tree?

Thinking thus, Michel took a short cut through the streets and
lanes, running at full speed; but horse and rider, in spite of
his haste, had gone faster than he. He reached the fork of the
roads. All was silent and solitary. The snow, trampled the day
before, a Sunday, no longer showed distinct tracks. The steps
of the horse were lost in the mud of the road. Nor did he waste
further time in vain searching. He wondered what had become of
Jacques; but his poacher's eye soon told him.

Jacques had stood on watch at the foot of a tree. For how long?
It was difficult to say, but long enough to become very cold.
The snow was well beaten down by his heavy hunting-boots. He
had evidently tried to keep warm by walking up and down. Then
suddenly he must have remembered a little mud hut on the other
side of the road, such as the road-menders build as a shelter
against the rain. He had gone down the ditch and crossed the
road. His trail, lost for a moment in the centre of the road, was
visible on the snow at either side. This trail formed a diagonal
line, making straight for the hut. It was evidently in the hut
that Jacques had passed the night. But when had he left it? And
why had he left it? The first question was unanswerable. But to
the most inexperienced scout the second was plain enough. He had
left it to follow M. de Valensolle. The same footsteps that had
approached the hut were to be seen going, as they left it, in
the direction of Ceyzeriat.

The traveller had really taken the road to Geneva. Jacques' footsteps
showed it plainly. The stride was long, like that of a man running,
and he had followed the road behind the trees, evidently to conceal
himself from the rider. At a wretched tavern, one of those with
the legend inscribed over its door: "Here we give food and drink,
equestrian and pedestrian lodgings," the trail stopped. It was
clear that the rider had stopped before this inn, for Jacques
had also paused behind a tree some twenty feet distant, where
the snow was-trampled. Then, probably after the gate had closed
on horse and rider, Jacques had left his tree, crossed the road,
this time with hesitation, his short steps leading, not to the
door, but to the window.

Michel put his own feet in his son's footprints and reached the
window. Through the chinks in the shutter the interior, when
lighted, could be seen; but now all was dark, and Michel could see
nothing. But Jacques had certainly looked through the window; no
doubt it was then lighted, and he had been able to see something.

Where had he gone on leaving the window? Round the house, close
to the wall. This excursion was easy to follow. The snow was
virgin. As for his purpose in going round the house that was
not difficult to make out. Jacques, like a lad of sense, had
concluded that the traveller had not left a good hotel, saying
that he was going to Geneva, to put up at a miserable tavern
a mile from the town.

He must have ridden through the yard and gone out by some other
exit. Jacques had, therefore, skirted the house in the hope of
recovering the trail, if not of the horse, at least of the rider
on the other side.

Sure enough, from a small gate in the rear, opening toward the
forest that extends from Coterz to Ceyzeriat, footsteps could
be seen advancing in a straight line to the edge of the woods.
They were those of a man elegantly shod, wearing spurs on his
heels, for the spurs had left their marks upon the snow.

Jacques had not hesitated to follow these marks. The track of
his heavy shoes could be seen near the prints of the delicate
boot--the large foot of the peasant near the slender foot of
the city man.

It was now five o'clock. Day was breaking, and Michel resolved
to go no further. Jacques was on the trail, and the young poacher
was worth as much as the old one. Michel circled the open as if
he were returning from Ceyzeriat, resolving to enter the inn
and wait for Jacques' return; certain that his son would know he
had followed him and had stopped short at this isolated house.

Michel knocked on the window-shutter and was soon admitted. He
knew the landlord, who was well accustomed to his nocturnal habits,
asked for a bottle, complaining bitterly of his poor luck, and
asked permission to wait for his son, who was in the woods on
the other side, and who, he hoped, had been more successful in
tracking the game. It goes without saying that this permission
was readily accorded. Michel opened the window-shutters, in order
to look out on the road.

It was not long before some one knocked on the glass. It was Jacques.
His father called him.

Jacques had been as unfortunate as his father. No game; and he
was frozen. An armful of wood was thrown on the fire and a second
bottle of wine was brought. Jacques warmed himself and drank.

Then, as it was necessary that the two poachers should be back
at the château before daylight, that their absence might not be
noticed, Michel paid for the wine and the wood, and the pair
departed.

Neither had said one word before the landlord of the subject
that filled their minds. He was not to suspect that they were on
other trail than that of game. But no sooner were they outside
of the house than Michel drew close to his son. Jacques recounted
how he had followed the tracks until they had reached a crossroad
in the forest. There a man, armed with a gun, had suddenly appeared
and asked him what he was doing in the forest at that hour. Jacques
replied that he was watching for game. "Then go further," said
the man; "don't you see that this place is taken?"

Jacques admitted the justice of this claim, and went on about a
hundred rods further, but, just as he was slanting to the left
to return to the crossroad, another man, armed like the first, had
suddenly started up with the same inopportune question. Jacques
gave him the same answer: "Watching for game." The man had then
pointed to the edge of the woods, saying in a threatening manner:
"If I have any advice to give you, my young friend, it is to go
over there. It will be safer for you than here."

Jacques had taken this advice, or at least had pretended to take
it, for as soon as he had reached the edge of the woods he had
crept along in the ditch, until, convinced that it would be
impossible to recover M. de Valensolle's track, he had struck
into the open, and returned by fields and the highroad to the
tavern, where he hoped to, and in fact did, find his father.

They reached the Château des Noires-Fontaines, as we have seen,
just as day was breaking.

All that we have related was repeated to Roland with a multiplicity
of detail which we must omit, and convinced the young officer
that the two armed men, who had warned off Jacques, were not
poachers as they seemed, but Companions of Jehu. But where was
their haunt located?

There was no deserted convent, no ruin, in that direction.

Suddenly Roland clapped his hand to his head. "Idiot that I am!"
he cried, "why did I never think of that?"

A smile of triumph crossed his lips, and addressing the two men,
who were mortified at having brought him no more definite news,
he cried: "My lads, I know all I want to know. Go to bed and
sleep sound; my word, you deserve to!" He himself, setting the
example, slept like a man whose brain has solved a problem of
the utmost importance which has long harassed it.

The thought had just flashed through his mind that the Companions
of Jehu had abandoned the Chartreuse of Seillon for the grottoes
of Ceyzeriat; and at the same time he recalled the subterranean
passage leading from these grottoes to the church of Brou.




CHAPTER XLVII

A RECONNOISSANCE

That same day, Sir John, making use of the permission accorded
him the night before, presented himself at the Château des
Noires-Fontaines between twelve and one o'clock.

Everything occurred as Morgan had advised. Sir John was received as
the friend of the family, Lord Tanlay as a suitor whose attentions
were most flattering. Amélie made no opposition to the wishes of her
mother and brother, and to the commands of the First Consul, further
than to dwell on the state of her health and to ask for delay on
that account. Sir John bowed and submitted; he had obtained more
than he had hoped to obtain. He was accepted.

He felt that his presence in Bourg, if prolonged, would be an
impropriety, Amélie being (still on the plea of ill-health) parted
from her mother and brother. He therefore announced that he would
pay her a second visit on the morrow, and leave Bourg that same
evening. He would delay further visits until Amélie came to Paris,
or until Madame de Montrevel returned to Bourg. The latter
arrangement was the more probable of the two, for Amélie assured
him she needed the country air and the spring-like weather to
assist her in recovering her health.

Thanks to Sir John's considerate delicacy, the plan arranged
between Amélie and Morgan was thus carried out, and the two lovers
had before them a period of solitude and a respite in which to
form their plans.

Michel learned these details from Charlotte and imparted them
in turn to Roland. The latter determined to await Sir John's
departure before he took any decisive steps against the Companions
of Jehu. But this did not prevent him from endeavoring to set at
rest any remaining doubts.

When night came he put on a hunting-suit, and over it Michel's
blouse, concealed his face beneath a broad-brimmed hat, slipped
a pair of pistols in his knife-belt, hidden by the blouse, and
boldly took the road from Noires-Fontaines to Bourg. He stopped
at the barracks of the gendarmerie and asked to see the captain.

The captain was in his room. Roland went up and made himself
known. Then, as it was only eight o'clock, and some one passing
might recognize him, he blew out the light, and the two men talked
in the dark. The captain knew already what had happened on the
Lyons road three days earlier, and, certain that Roland was not
killed, was expecting him. To his great astonishment, Roland
asked him for only one, or rather for two things: the key of the
church of Brou and a crowbar.

The captain gave him the required articles, and offered to accompany
him, but Roland refused. It was evident to his mind that he had
been betrayed by some one connected with the affair of the
Maison-Blanche, and he would not expose himself to a second defeat.
He therefore begged the captain to tell no one of his presence
in Bourg, and to await his return, even if it were delayed some
hours. The captain agreed.

Roland, the key in his right hand, the crowbar in his left, reached
the side door of the church without making any noise. This he
unlocked, entered, relocked it behind him, and found himself facing
a wall of hay. He listened. The most profound silence reigned.

He remembered his boyish habits, took his bearings, put the key
in his pocket, and scrambled up the wall of hay, which was about
fifteen feet high and formed a sort of platform. When he reached
the top he slid down on the other side, as though he were descending
the scarp of a fortification, and reached the flooring of the
church, which was almost wholly composed of mortuary stones.

The choir was empty, thanks to a rood-screen which protected it
on one side, and also to the walls which inclosed it to right
and left. The door of the screen was open and Roland entered the
choir without difficulty. He came face to face with the monument
of Philippe le Beau. At the head of the tomb was a large square
flagstone. It covered the steps which led to the burial vaults.

Roland must have known the way, for as soon as he reached the
stone he knelt down and felt with his hand for the edge of it.
When he found it he stood up, inserted his lever and raised the
slab. With one hand he held it up while he went down the steps.
Then he lowered it slowly. It seemed as though this nocturnal
visitor were voluntarily separating himself from the land of the
living, and descending into the world of the dead. And strange
indeed to him, who sees by night as by day, on the earth and
beneath it, must the impassibility of this young man have seemed,
who passed among the dead in search of the living, and who, in
spite of darkness and solitude, did not shudder at the touch
of the mortuary marbles.

He walked on, feeling his way among the tombs, until he came
to the iron gate leading to the subterranean passage. He looked
for the lock. It was only bolted. He inserted the end of his
lever between the bolt and the staple, and pushed it gently.
The gate opened. He drew it close after him, but did not lock
it, so as to avoid delay on his return. The crowbar he left at
the corner of the gate.

Then, with straining ears, dilated pupils, every sense tense
with this effort to hear, the need to breathe, the impossibility
of seeing, he advanced slowly, a pistol in one hand, touching
the wall with the other to guide himself. He walked thus for
fifteen minutes. A few drops of ice-cold water fell through the
roof on his hands and shoulders, and told him he was passing
under the river.

At the end of this time he found the door which opened from the
passage into the quarry. There he halted a moment. He could now
breathe more freely, and, moreover, he fancied that he heard distant
sounds, and could see flickering lights, like will-o'-the-wisps,
on the pillars that supported the roof. An observer might have
thought, not distinguishing the face of the silent listener,
that he showed hesitation; but the moment his countenance was
seen, no one could have mistaken its expression of hope.

He then resumed his way, heading toward the light he thought he
had seen. As he advanced, the lights and the noises grew more
distinct. It was evident that the quarry was inhabited. By whom?
He did not yet know, but he would know.

He was already within ten feet of that open clearing in the midst
of the granite walls which we described on our first visit to
the grotto of Ceyzeriat. Roland clung closely to the wall, and
moved forward almost imperceptibly. In the dim half-light he
looked like a gliding bass-relief.

At last his head passed beyond an angle of the wall, and his
glance rested upon what we may call the camp of the Companions
of Jehu.

A dozen or more of the members sat there at supper. Roland was
seized with a wild desire to precipitate himself into their midst,
attacking them singly, and fighting until he died. But he repressed
the insensate thought, withdrew his head as slowly as he had
advanced it, and, with beaming eyes and heart full of joy, returned,
unseen and unsuspected, along the way he had come. Everything
was now explained; the deserted Chartreuse, M. de Valensolle's
disappearance, and the counterfeit poachers near the entrance
to the grotto of Ceyzeriat.

This time he was sure of his vengeance, his deadly, terrible
vengeance--deadly, because, in like manner as he had been spared
(he suspected intentionally), he meant to spare others; with
this difference that, whereas he had been spared for life, he
would order these men spared for death, death on the scaffold.

Half-way back he thought he heard a noise behind him. He turned
and was certain he saw a gleam of light. He quickened his steps.
The gate once passed, there was no danger of losing his way. It
was no longer a quarry with a thousand windings; it was a straight
and narrow vaulted passage leading to the mortuary grating. At the
end of ten minutes he again passed under the river; a couple of
minutes later, his outstretched hand touched the iron gate.

He took the crowbar from the place where he had left it, entered
the vault, pulled the gate to, closed it gently and noiselessly,
and, guiding himself by the tombs, he regained the staircase,
pushed up the flagstone with his head, and stood once more in
the land of the living.

There it was comparative daylight. He left the choir, closed the
door of the screen as he had found it, scaled the hay, crossed
the platform, and slid down the other side. The key was still
in his pocket. He unlocked the door and stepped out into the
street.

The captain of gendarmerie was anxiously awaiting him. They conferred
together for a few moments, and then they returned to Bourg by
the outer road to avoid being seen. Here they entered the town
through the market-gate, and followed the Rue de la Révolution,
the Rue de la Liberté, and the Rue d'Espagne, since called the
Rue Simonneau. There Roland ensconced himself in a corner of the
Rue du Greffe and waited. The captain continued on his way alone.
He went down the Rue des Ursules (for the last seven years called
the Rue des Casernes). This was where the colonel of dragoons
lived. He had just gone to bed when the captain of the gendarmerie
entered his room; in two words the latter told all, and he rose
at once and dressed in haste.

When the colonel of dragoons and the captain of gendarmerie appeared
in the square, a shadow detached itself from the opposite wall
and came up to them. That shadow was Roland. The three men stood
talking for about ten minutes, Roland giving his orders, the
other two listening and approving.

Then they separated. The colonel returned home. Roland and the
captain followed the Rue de l'Etoile, climbed the steps of the
Jacobins, passed down the Rue du Bourgneuf, and reached the outer
road once more. Then they struck diagonally across to the highroad
of Pont-d'Ain. The captain stopped at the barracks, which were
on the way, and Roland continued alone to the château.

Twenty minutes later--in order not to awaken Amélie--instead
of ringing the bell he knocked on Michel's window-blind. Michel
opened, and with one bound Roland, devoured by that fever which
took possession of him whenever he incurred, or merely dreamed
of some danger, sprang into the room.

He would not have awakened Amélie had he rung, for Amélie was
not asleep. Charlotte had been into town ostensibly to see her
father, but really to take a letter from her mistress to Morgan.
She had seen Morgan and brought back his answer.

Amélie was reading that answer, which was as follows:

  DEAR LOVE OF MINE--Yes, all goes well on your side, for you are
  an angel; but I greatly fear that all may go ill on mine, for I
  am the demon.

  I must see you, I must hold you in my arms and press you to my
  Heart. I know not what presentiment hangs over me; but I am sad,
  sad as death.

  Send Charlotte to-morrow to make sure that Sir John is gone, and
  then, if you are certain, make the accustomed signal. Do not be
  alarmed; do not talk to me of the snow, or tell me that my
  footsteps will be seen. This time it is not I who will go to you,
  but you who must come to me. Do you understand? You can safely
  walk in the park, and no one will notice your footsteps.

  Put on your warmest shawl and your thickest furs. Then we will
  spend an hour in the boat under the willows together, and change
  our roles for once. Usually I tell you of my hopes and you tell
  me of your fears; but to-morrow, you will tell me of your hopes
  and I will tell you of my fears, my darling Amélie.

  Only, be sure to come out as soon as you have made the signal. I
  will await it at Montagnac, and from Montagnac to the Reissouse
  it will not take a love like mine five minutes to reach you.

  Au revoir, my poor Amélie; had you never met me you would have
  been the happiest of the happy. Fatality placed me in your path,
  and I have made a martyr of you.

  Your CHARLES.

  P.S.--To-morrow without fail, unless some insurmountable obstacle
  prevents.




CHAPTER XLVIII

IN WHICH MORGAN'S PRESENTIMENTS ARE VERIFIED

It often happens that the skies are never so calm or so serene
as before a storm. The day was beautiful and still; one of those
glorious days of February when, in spite of the tingling cold
of the atmosphere, in spite of a winding-sheet of snow covering
the earth, the sun smiles down upon mankind with a promise of
spring.

Sir John came at noon to make his farewell visit to Amélie. He
had, or thought he had, her promise, and that satisfied him.
His impatience was altogether personal; but Amélie, in accepting
his suit, even though she relegated the period of her marriage to
the vaguest possible future, had crowned his hopes. He trusted
to the First Consul and to Roland's friendship for the rest. He
therefore returned to Paris to do much of his courting with
Madame de Montrevel, not being able to remain at Bourg and carry
it on with Amélie.

A quarter of an hour after he had left the Château des
Noires-Fontaines, Charlotte was also on her way to Bourg. At
four o'clock she returned, bringing word that she had seen Sir
John with her own eyes getting into his travelling carriage,
and that he had taken the road to Mâcon.

Amélie could therefore feel perfectly at ease on that score. She
breathed freer. She had tried to inspire Morgan with a peace of
mind which she herself did not share. Since the day that Charlotte
had brought back the news of Roland's presence at Bourg, she
had had a presentiment, like that of Morgan himself, that they
were approaching some terrible crisis. She knew all that had
happened at the Chartreuse of Seillon. She foresaw the struggle
between her brother and her lover, and, with her mind at rest
about her brother, thanks to Morgan's protection, she, knowing
Roland's character, trembled for her lover's life.

Moreover, she had heard of the stoppage of the Chambéry mail-coach
and the death of the colonel of Chasseurs. She also knew that her
brother had escaped, but that he had disappeared since that time.
She had received no letter from him herself. This disappearance
and silence, to her who knew her brother so well, was even worse
than open and declared war.

As for Morgan, she had not seen him since the scene we have narrated,
when she promised to send him arms wherever he might be, in case he
were condemned to death. Amélie therefore awaited this interview,
for which Morgan had asked, with as much impatience as he who had
asked it. As soon as she thought Michel and his son were in bed,
she lighted the four windows with the candles which were to summon
Morgan to her.

Then, following her lover's injunctions, she wrapped herself
in a cashmere shawl, which Roland had brought her from the
battlefield of the Pyramids, and which he had unwound from the
head of a chieftain whom he had killed. Over this she flung a
fur mantle, left Charlotte behind to keep her informed in case
of eventualities, which she trusted would not be forthcoming,
opened the park gate, and hastened toward the river.

During the day she had gone to the Reissouse and back several
times to trace a line of footsteps, among which the nocturnal
ones would not be noticed. She now descended, if not tranquilly
at least boldly, the slope leading to the river. Once there, she
looked about her for the boat beneath the willows. A man was
waiting in it--Morgan. With two strokes of the oar he reached
a spot where Amélie could come to him. The young girl sprang
down and he caught her in his arms.

The first thing the young girl noticed was the joyous radiance
which illuminated, if we may say so, the face of her lover.

"Oh!" she cried, "you have something nice to tell me." "What
makes you think so, dearest?" asked Morgan with his tenderest
smile.

"There is something in your face, my darling Charles, something
more than the mere happiness of seeing me."

"You are right," said Morgan, throwing the boat-chain around a
willow and letting the oars float idly beside the boat. Then,
taking Amélie in his arms, he said, "You were right, my Amélie.
Oh! blind weak beings! It is at the very moment that happiness
knocks at our door that we despair and doubt."

"Oh, speak, speak!" said Amélie, "tell me what has happened."

"Do you remember, my Amélie, how you answered me the last time
we met, when I asked you to fly and spoke to you of your probable
repugnance to the step?"

"Yes, I remember, Charles. I said that I was yours, and that,
though I felt that repugnance, I would conquer it for your sake."

"And I replied that I had engagements which would prevent my
leaving the country; that I was bound to others, and they to
me; that our duty was to one man to whom we owed absolute
obedience--the future King of France, Louis XVIII."

"Yes, you told me that."

"Well, we are now released from our pledges, Amélie, not only
by the King, but by our general, Georges Cadoudal."

"Oh! my friend, then you will be as other men, only above all
others."

"I shall become a simple exile, Amélie. There is no hope of our
being included in the Breton or Vendéan amnesty."

"Why not?"

"We are not soldiers, my darling child. We are not even rebels.
We are Companions of Jehu."

Amélie sighed.

"We are bandits, brigands, highwaymen," said Morgan, dwelling
on the words with evident intention.

"Hush!" said Amélie, laying her hand on her lover's lips. "Hush!
don't let us speak of that. Tell me how it is that your king
has released you, and your general also."

"The First Consul wished to see Cadoudal. In the first place,
he sent your brother to him with certain proposals. Cadoudal
refused to come to terms; but, like ourselves, he received orders
from Louis XVIII. to cease hostilities. Coincident with that
order came another message from the First Consul to Cadoudal.
It was a safeguard for the Vendéan general, and an invitation
to come to Paris; an overture from one power to another power.
Cadoudal accepted, and is now on his way to Paris. If it is not
peace, it is at least a truce."

"Oh, what joy, my Charles!"

"Don't rejoice too much, my love."

"Why not?"

"Do you know why they have issued this order to suspend hostilities?"

"No."

"Because M. Fouché is a long-headed man. He realized that, since
he could not defeat us, he must dishonor us. He has organized
false companies of Jehu, which he has set loose in Maine and
Anjou, who don't stop at the government money, but pillage and
rob travellers, and invade the châteaux and farms by night, and
roast the feet of the owners to make them tell where their treasure
is hidden. Well, these men, these bandits, these _roasters_,
have taken our name, and claim to be fighting for the same
principles, so that M. Fouché and his police declare that we are
not only beyond the pale of the law, but beyond that of honor."

"Oh!"

"That is what I wished to tell you before I ask you to fly with
me, my Amélie. In the eyes of France, in the eyes of foreigners,
even in the eyes of the prince we have served, and for whom we
have risked the scaffold, we shall be hereafter, and probably
are now, dishonored men worthy of the scaffold."

"Yes; but to me you are my Charles, the man of devoted convictions,
the firm royalist, continuing to struggle for a cause when other men
have abandoned it. To me you are the loyal Baron de Sainte-Hermine,
or, if you like it better, you are to me the noble, courageous,
invincible Morgan."

"Ah! that is what I longed to hear, my darling. If you feel thus,
you will not hesitate, in spite of the cloud of infamy that hangs
over our honor, you will not hesitate--I will not say to give
yourself to me, for that you have already done--but to become
my wife."

"Hesitate! No, not for an instant, not for a second! To do it
is the joy of my soul, the happiness of my life! Your wife? I
am your wife in the sight of God, and God will have granted my
every prayer on the day that he enables me to be your wife before
men."

Morgan fell on his knees.

"Then," he said, "here at your feet, with clasped hands and my
whole heart supplicating, I say to you, Amélie, will you fly
with me? Will you leave France with me? Will you be my wife in
other lands?"

Amélie sprang erect and clasped her head in her hands, as though
her brain were bursting with the force of the blood that rushed
to it. Morgan caught both her hands and looked at her anxiously.

"Do you hesitate?" he asked in a broken, trembling voice.

"No, not an instant!" she cried resolutely. "I am yours in the
past, in the present, in the future, here, everywhere. Only the
thought convulses me. It is so unexpected."

"Reflect well, Amélie. What I ask of you is to abandon country
and family, all that is dear to you, all that is sacred. If you
follow me, you leave the home where you were born, the mother
who nurtured you, the brother who loves you, and who, perhaps,
when he hears that you are the wife of a brigand, will hate you.
He will certainly despise you."

As he spoke, Morgan's eyes were anxiously questioning Amélie's
face. Over that face a tender smile stole gradually, and then
it turned from heaven to earth, and bent upon Morgan, who was
still on his knees before her.

"Oh, Charles!" she murmured, in a voice as soft as the clear
limpid river flowing at her feet, "the love that comes direct
from the Divine is very powerful indeed, since, in spite of those
dreadful words you have just uttered, I say to you without
hesitation, almost without regret: Charles, I am here; Charles,
I am yours. Where shall we go?"

"Amélie, our fate is not one to discuss. If we go, if you follow
me, it must be at once. To-morrow we must be beyond the frontier."

"How do we go?"

"I have two horses, ready saddled at Montagnac, one for you,
Amélie, and one for me. I have letters of credit for two hundred
thousand francs on London and Vienna. We will go wherever you
prefer."

"Wherever you are, Charles. What difference does it make so long
as you are there?"

"Then come."

"Can I have five minutes, Charles; is that too much?"

"Where are you going?"

"To say good-by to many things, to fetch your precious letters
and the ivory chaplet used at my first communion. Oh! there are
many sacred cherished souvenirs of my childhood which will remind
me over there of my mother, of France. I will fetch them and
return."

"Amélie!"

"What is it?"

"I cannot leave you. If I part with you an instant now I feel
that I shall lose you forever. Amélie, let me go with you."

"Yes, come. What matter if they see your footsteps now? We shall
be far enough away to-morrow. Come!" The young man sprang from
the boat and gave his hand to Amélie to help her out. Then he
folded his arm about her and they walked to the house.

On the portico Charles stopped.

"Go on alone," said he; "memory is a chaste thing. I know that,
and I will not embarrass you by my presence. I will wait here
and watch for you. So long as I know you are close by me I do
not fear to lose you. Go, dear, and come back quickly."

Amélie answered with a kiss. Then she ran hastily up to her room,
took the little coffer of carved oak clamped with iron, her treasury,
which contained her lover's letters from first to last, unfastened
from the mirror above her bed the white and virginal chaplet
that hung there; put into her belt a watch her father had given
her, and passed into her mother's bedchamber. There she stooped
and kissed the pillow where her mother's head had lain, knelt
before the Christ at the foot of the bed, began a thanksgiving
she dared not finish, changed it to a prayer, and then suddenly
stopped--she fancied she heard Charles calling her.

She listened and heard her name a second time, uttered in a tone
of agony she could not understand. She quivered, sprang to her
feet, and ran rapidly down the stairs.

"What is it?" cried Amélie, seizing the young man's hand.

"Listen, listen!" said he.

Amélie strained her ears to catch the sound which seemed to her
like musketry. It came from the direction of Ceyzeriat.

"Oh!" cried Morgan, "I was right in doubting my happiness to the
last. My friends are attacked. Adieu, Amélie, adieu!"

"Adieu!" cried Amélie, turning pale. "What, will you leave me?"

The sound of the firing grew more distinct.

"Don't you hear them? They are fighting, and I am not there to
fight with them."

Daughter and sister of a soldier, Amélie understood him and she
made no resistance.

"Go!" she said, letting her hands drop beside her. "You were right,
we are lost."

The young man uttered a cry of rage, caught her to his breast, and
pressed her to him as though he would smother her. Then, bounding
from the portico, he rushed in the direction of the firing with the
speed of a deer pursued by hunters.

"I come! I come, my friends!" he cried. And he disappeared like
a shadow beneath the tall trees of the park.

Amélie fell upon her knees, her hands stretched toward him without
the strength to recall him, or, if she did so, it was in so faint
a voice that Morgan did not stop or even check his speed to answer
her.




CHAPTER XLIX

ROLAND'S REVENGE

It is easy to guess what had happened. Roland had not wasted his
time with the captain of gendarmerie and the colonel of dragoons.
They on their side did not forget that they had their own revenge
to take.

Roland had informed them of the subterranean passage that led
from the church of Brou to the grotto of Ceyzeriat. At nine in
the evening the captain and the eighteen men under his command
were to go to the church, descend into the burial vault of the
Dukes of Savoy, and prevent with their bayonets all communication
between the subterranean passage and the quarry.

Roland, at the head of twenty men, was to inclose the woods in
a semicircle, drawing in upon it until the two ends should meet
at the grotto of Ceyzeriat. The first movement of the party was
to be made at nine o'clock, in conjunction with the captain of
the gendarmerie.

We have seen, from what Morgan told Amélie, the nature of the
present intentions of the Companions of Jehu. The news brought
from Mittau and from Brittany had put them at ease. Each man
felt that he was free, and, knowing that the struggle had been
a hopeless one, he rejoiced in his liberty.

There was therefore a full meeting at the grotto of Ceyzeriat,
almost a fête. At twelve o'clock the Companions of Jehu were
to separate, and each one, according to his facilities, was to
cross the frontier and leave France.

We know how their leader employed his last moments. The others,
who had not the same ties of the heart, were supping together in
the broad open space of the quarry, brilliantly illuminated--a
feast of separation and farewell; for, once out of France, the
Vendée and Brittany pacificated, Condé's army destroyed, who
knew when and where they should meet again in foreign lands.

Suddenly the report of a shot fell upon their ears.

Every man sprang to his feet as if moved by an electric shock.
A second shot, and then through the depths of the quarry rang
the cry, quivering on the wings of the bird of ill-omen, "To
arms!"

To the Companions of Jehu, subjected to all the vicissitudes of
life of an outlaw, the occasional rest they snatched was never
that of peace. Pistols, daggers, carbines, were ever near at
hand. At the cry, given no doubt by the sentinel, each man sprang
to his weapons and stood with panting breast and strained ears,
waiting.

In the midst of the silence a step as rapid as well could be in
the darkness was heard. Then, within the circle of light thrown
by the torches and candles, a man appeared.

"To arms!" he cried again, "we are attacked!"

The two shots the Companions of Jehu had heard were from the
double-barrelled gun of the sentry. It was he who now appeared,
his smoking gun in his hand.

"Where is Morgan?" cried twenty voices.

"Absent," replied Montbar; "consequently I command. Put out the
lights and retreat to the church. A fight is useless now. It
would only be waste of blood."

He was obeyed with an alacrity that showed that every one appreciated
the danger. The little company drew together in the darkness.

Montbar, who knew the windings of the subterranean passage almost
as well as Morgan, directed the troop, and, followed by his
companions, he plunged into the heart of the quarry. Suddenly,
as he neared the gate of the passage, he fancied he heard an
order given in a low tone not fifty feet away, then a sound like
the cocking of guns. He stretched out both arms and muttered
in a low voice:

"Halt!" At the same instant came the command, this time perfectly
audible: "Fire!"

It was hardly given before the cavern was lighted with a glare,
followed by a frightful volley. Ten carbines had been discharged
at once into the narrow passage. By their light Montbar and his
companions recognized the uniform of the gendarmes.

"Fire!" cried Montbar in turn.

Seven or eight shots answered the command. Again the darkness was
illuminated. Two of the Companions of Jehu lay upon the ground,
one killed outright, the other mortally wounded.

"Our retreat is cut off, my friends," cried Montbar. "To the
right-about! If we have a chance, it is through the forest."

The movement was executed with the precision of a military manoeuvre.
Montbar, again at the head of his companions, retraced his steps.
At that moment the gendarmes fired again. But no one replied.
Those who had discharged their guns reloaded them. Those who
had not, reserved their fire for the real struggle which was to
come. One or two sighs alone told that the last volley of the
gendarmes had not been without result.

At the end of five minutes Montbar stopped. The little party had
reached the open space of the quarry.

"Are your pistols and guns all loaded?" he asked.

"Yes," answered a dozen voices.

"Remember the order for those who fall into the hands of the
police. We belong to the army of M. de Teyssonnet, and we are
here to recruit men for the royalist cause. If they talk to us
of mail-coaches and diligences, we don't know what they mean."

"Agreed."

"In either case it will be death. We know that well enough; but
the death of a soldier is better than that of thieves--the volley
of a platoon rather than the guillotine."

"Yes, yes," cried a mocking voice, "we know what that is--Vive
la fusillade!"

"Forward, friends!" said Montbar, "and let us sell our lives
for what they are worth; that is to say, as dearly as possible."

"Forward!" they all cried.

Then, as rapidly as was possible in the profound darkness, the
little troop resumed its march, still under the guidance of Montbar.
As they advanced, the leader noticed a smell of smoke which alarmed
him. At the same time gleams of light began to flicker on the
granite walls at the angles of the path, showing that something
strange was happening at the opening of the grotto.

"I believe those scoundrels are smoking us out," exclaimed Montbar.

"I fear so," replied Adler.

"They think we are foxes."

"Oh!" replied the same voice, "they shall know by our claws that
we are lions."

The smoke became thicker and thicker, the light more and more
vivid.

They turned the last corner. A pile of dried wood had been lighted
in the quarry about fifty feet from the entrance, not for the
smoke, but for the light it gave. By the blaze of that savage
flame the weapons of the dragoons could be seen gleaming at the
entrance of the grotto.

Ten steps in advance of the men stood an officer, waiting. He
was leaning on his carbine, not only exposed to attack, but
apparently courting it. It was Roland. He was easily recognized.
He had flung his cap away, his head was bare, and the fitful
light of the flames played upon his features. But that which
should have cost him his life saved him. Montbar recognized him
and stepped backward.

"Roland de Montrevel!" he said. "Remember Morgan's injunction."

"Yes," replied the other Companions, in muffled tones.

"And now," said Montbar, "let us die, but dearly!"

And he sprang forward into the space illuminated by the fire,
and discharged one barrel of his gun at the dragoons, who replied
with a volley.

It would be impossible to relate all that followed. The grotto
was filled with smoke, which the flame of each weapon pierced
like a flash of lightning. The two bands clinched and fought
hand to hand, pistols and daggers serving them in turn. At the
noise of the struggle, the gendarmes poured in from the rear--few
more demons added to this fight of devils--but the groups of
friends and enemies were so confused they dared not fire. They
struggled in the red and lurid atmosphere, fell down and rose
again; a roar of rage was heard, then a cry of agony--the death
sigh of a man. The survivor sought another man, and the struggle
was renewed.

This work of death lasted fifteen minutes, perhaps twenty. At
the end of those twenty minutes twenty corpses could be counted
in the grotto of Ceyzeriat. Thirteen were those of the gendarmes
and the dragoons, nine belonged to the Companions of Jehu. Five
of the latter were still living; overwhelmed by numbers, crippled
by wounds, they were taken alive. The gendarmes and the dragoons,
twenty-five in number, surrounded them.

The captain of gendarmes had his arm shattered, the colonel of
dragoons was wounded in the thigh. Roland alone, covered with blood
that was not his own, had not a scratch. Two of the prisoners were
so grievously wounded that it was impossible for them to walk,
and the soldiers were obliged to carry them on an improvised
litter. Torches were lighted, and the whole troop, with the
prisoners, took the road to the town.

As they were leaving the forest to branch into the high-road,
the gallop of a horse was heard. It came on rapidly. "Go on,"
said Roland; "I will stay here and find out what this means."

It was a rider, who, as we have said, was advancing at full speed.

"Who goes there?" cried Roland, raising his carbine when the rider
was about twenty paces from him.

"One more prisoner, Monsieur de Montrevel," replied the rider,
"I could not be in at the fight, but I will at least go to the
scaffold. Where are my friends?"

"There, sir," replied Roland, who had recognized, not the face,
but the voice of the rider, a voice which he now heard for the
third time. As he spoke, he pointed to the little group in the
centre of the soldiers who were making their way along the road
from Ceyzeriat to Bourg.

"I am glad to see that no harm has befallen you, M. de Montrevel,"
said the young man, with great courtesy; "I assure you it gives
me much happiness." And spurring his horse, he was beside the
soldiers and gendarmes in a few strides. "Pardon me, gentlemen,"
he said, springing from his horse, "I claim a place among my
three friends, the Vicomte de Jayat, the Comte de Valensolle,
and the Marquis de Ribier."

The three prisoners gave a cry of admiration and held out their
hands to their friend. The two wounded men lifted themselves
up on their litters, and murmured: "Well done, Sainte-Hermine,
well done!"

"I do believe, God help me!" cried Roland, "that those brigands
will have the nobler side of the affair!"




CHAPTER L

CADOUDAL AT THE TUILERIES

The day but one after the events which we have just related took
place, two men were walking side by side up and down the grand
salon of the Tuileries. They were talking eagerly, accompanying
their words with hasty and animated gestures. These men were
the First Consul, Bonaparte, and Cadoudal.

Cadoudal, impelled by the misery that might be entailed by a
prolonged struggle in Brittany, had just signed a peace with
Brune. It was after this signing of the peace that he had released
the Companions of Jehu from their obligations. Unhappily, this
release had reached them, as we have seen, twenty-four hours
too late.

When treating with Brune, Cadoudal had asked nothing for himself
save the liberty to go immediately to England. But Brune had
been so insistent, that he had consented to an interview with
the First Consul. He had, in consequence, come to Paris. The
very morning of his arrival he went to the Tuileries, sent in
his name, and had been received. It was Rapp who, in Roland's
absence, introduced him. As the aide-de-camp withdrew, he left
both doors open, so as to see everything from Bourrienne's room,
and to be able to go to the assistance of the First Consul if
necessary.

But Bonaparte, who perfectly understood Rapp's motive, closed
the door. Then, returning hastily to Cadoudal's side, he said:
"Ah! so it is you at last! One of your enemies, my aide-de-camp,
Roland de Montrevel, has told me fine things of you."

"That does not surprise me," replied Cadoudal. "During the short
time I saw M. de Montrevel, I recognized in him a most chivalrous
nature."

"Yes; and that touched you?" asked the First Consul, fixing his
falcon eye on the royalist chief. "Listen, Georges. I need energetic
men like you to accomplish the work I have undertaken. Will you
be one of them? I have already offered you the rank of colonel,
but you are worth more than that. I now offer you the rank of
general of division."

"I thank you from the bottom of my heart, citizen First Consul,"
replied Cadoudal; "but you would despise me if I accepted."

"Why so?" queried Bonaparte, hastily.

"Because I have pledged myself to the House of Bourbon; and I
shall remain faithful to it under all circumstances."

"Let us discuss the matter," resumed the First Consul. "Is there
no way to bind you?"

"General," replied the royalist leader, "may I be permitted to
repeat to you what has been said to me?"

"Why not?"

"Because it touches upon the deepest political interests."

"Pooh! some nonsense," said the First Consul, smiling uneasily.

Cadoudal stopped short and looked fixedly at his companion.

"It is said that an agreement was made between you and Commodore
Sidney Smith at Alexandria, the purport of which was to allow
you to return to France on the condition, accepted by you, of
restoring the throne to our former kings."

Bonaparte burst out laughing.

"How astonishing you are, you plebeians!" he said, "with your
love for your former kings! Suppose that I did re-establish the
throne (a thing, I assure you, I have not the smallest desire
to do), what return will you get, you who have shed your blood
for the cause? Not even the confirmation of the rank you have
won in it, colonel. Have you ever known in the royalist ranks a
colonel who was not a noble? Did you ever hear of any man rising
by his merits into that class of people? Whereas with me, Georges,
you can attain to what you will. The higher I raise myself, the
higher I shall raise those who surround me. As for seeing me
play the part of Monk, dismiss that from your mind. Monk lived
in an age in which the prejudices we fought and overthrew in
1789 were in full force. Had Monk wished to make himself king,
he could not have done so. Dictator? No! It needed a Cromwell
for that! Richard could not have maintained himself. It is true
that he was the true son of a great man--in other words a fool.
If I had wished to make myself king, there was nothing to hinder
me; and if ever the wish takes me there will be nothing to hinder.
Now, if you have an answer to that, give it."

"You tell me, citizen First Consul, that the situation in France
in 1800 is not the same as England in 1660. Charles I. was beheaded
in 1649, Louis XVI. in 1793. Eleven years elapsed in England
between the death of the king and the restoration of his son.
Seven years have already elapsed in France since the death of
Louis XVI. Will you tell me that the English revolution was a
religious one, whereas the French revolution was a political
one? To that I reply that a charter is as easy to make as an
abjuration."

Bonaparte smiled.

"No," he said, "I should not tell you that. I should say to you
simply this: that Cromwell was fifty years old when Charles I.
died. I was twenty-four at the death of Louis XVI. Cromwell died at
the age of fifty-nine. In ten years' time he was able to undertake
much, but to accomplish little. Besides, his reform was a total
one--a vast political reform by the substitution of a republican
government for a monarchical one. Well, grant that I live to be
Cromwell's age, fifty-nine; that is not too much to expect; I
shall still have twenty years, just the double of Cromwell. And
remark, I change nothing, I progress; I do not overthrow, I build
up. Suppose that Cæsar, at thirty years of age, instead of being
merely the first roué of Rome, had been its greatest citizen;
suppose his campaign in Gaul had been made; that his campaign in
Egypt was over, his campaign in Spain happily concluded; suppose
that he was thirty years old instead of fifty--don't you think
he would have been both Cæsar and Augustus?"

"Yes, unless he found Brutus, Cassius, and Casca on his path."

"So," said Bonaparte, sadly, "my enemies are reckoning on
assassination, are they? In that case the thing is easy, and
you, my enemy, have the first chance. What hinders you at this
moment, if you feel like Brutus, from striking me as he struck
Cæsar? I am alone with you, the doors are shut; and you would
have the time to finish me before any one could reach you."

Cadoudal made a step backward.

"No," said he, "we do not count upon assassination, and I think
our extremity must be great indeed before any of us would become
a murderer; but there are the chances of war. A single reverse
would destroy your prestige. One defeat would bring the enemy to
the heart of France. The camp-fires of the Austrians can already
be seen from the frontiers of Provence. A cannon-ball may take
off your head, as it did that of Marshal Berwick, and then what
becomes of France? You have no children, and your brothers--"

"Oh!" cried Bonaparte, "from that point of view you are right
enough; but, if you don't believe in Providence, I do. I believe
that nothing happens by chance. I believe that when, on the 15th
of August, 1769 (one year, day for day, after Louis XV. issued
the decree reuniting Corsica to France), a child was born in
Ajaccio, destined to bring about the 13th Vendémiaire and the
18th Brumaire, and that Providence had great designs, mighty
projects, in view for that child. I am that child. If I have
a mission, I have nothing to fear. My mission is a buckler. If
I have no mission, if I am mistaken, if, instead of living the
twenty-five or thirty years I need to accomplish my work, I am
stabbed to the heart like Cæsar, or knocked over by a cannon-ball
like Berwick, Providence will have had its reasons for acting
so, and on Providence will devolve the duty of providing for
France. We spoke just now of Cæsar. When Rome followed his body,
mourning, and burned the houses of his murderers, when the Eternal
City turned its eyes to the four quarters of the globe, asking
whence would come the genius to stay her civil wars, when she
trembled at the sight of drunken Antony and treacherous Lepidus,
she never thought of the pupil of Apollonius, the nephew of Cæsar,
the young Octavius. Who then remembered that son of the Velletri
banker, whitened with the flour of his ancestors? No one; not
even the far-sighted Cicero. '_Orandum et tollendum_,' he
said. Well, that lad fooled all the graybeards in the Senate,
and reigned almost as long as Louis XIV. Georges, Georges! don't
struggle against the Providence which created me, or that Providence
will destroy you."

"Then I shall be destroyed while following the path and the religion
of my fathers," replied Cadoudal, bowing; "and I hope that God
will pardon my error, which will be that of a fervent Christian
and a faithful son."

Bonaparte laid his hands on the shoulders of the young leader.

"So be it," said he; "but at least remain neuter. Leave events
to complete themselves. Watch the thrones as they topple, the
crowns as they fall. Usually spectators pay for a show; I will
pay you to look on."

"And what will you pay me for that, citizen First Consul?" asked
Cadoudal, laughing.

"One hundred thousand francs a year," replied Bonaparte.

"If you would give a hundred thousand francs to one poor rebel
leader," said Cadoudal, "what would you give to the prince for
whom he fought?"

"Nothing, sir. I pay you for your courage, not for the principle
for which you fought. I prove to you that I, man of my own works,
judge men solely by theirs. Accept, Georges, I beg of you."

"And suppose I refuse?"

"You will do wrong."

"Will I still be free to depart when I please?"

Bonaparte went to the door and opened it.

"The aide-de-camp on duty," he said.

He waited, expecting to see Rapp. Roland appeared.

"Ah, is it you!" he cried. Then, turning to Cadoudal, he said:
"Colonel, I do not need to present to you my aide-de-camp, M.
Roland de Montrevel. He is already one of your acquaintances.
Roland, tell the colonel that he is as free in Paris as you were
in his camp at Muzillac, and that if he wishes a passport for
any country in the world, Fouché has orders to give it to him."

"Your word suffices, citizen First Consul," replied Cadoudal,
bowing. "I leave to-night."

"May I ask where you are going?"

"To London, general."

"So much the better."

"Why so much the better?"

"Because there you will be near the men for whom you have fought."

"And then?"

"Then, when you have seen them--"

"What?"

"You will compare them with those against whom you have fought.
But, once out of France, colonel--"

Bonaparte paused.

"I am waiting," said Cadoudal.

"Do not return without warning me, or, if you do, do not be surprised
if I treat you as an enemy."

"That would be an honor, general. By treating me so you will show
that you consider me a man to be feared."

So saying, Georges bowed to the First Consul, and retired.

"Well, general," asked Roland, after the door had closed on the
Breton leader, "is he the man I represented him to be?"

"Yes," responded Bonaparte, thoughtfully; "only he sees things
awry. But the exaggeration of his ideas arises from noble sentiments,
which must give him great influence over his own people." Then
he added, in a low voice, "But we must make an end of him. And
now what have you been doing, Roland?"

"Making an end of my work," replied Roland.

"Ah, ha! Then the Companions of Jehu--"

"No longer exist, general. Three-fourths are dead, the rest
prisoners."

"And you are safe and sound?"

"Don't speak of it, general. I do verily believe I have a compact
with the devil."

That same evening Cadoudal, as he said, left Paris for England.
On receiving the news that the Breton leader was in London, Louis
XVIII. wrote him the following letter:

  I have learned with the greatest satisfaction, general, that
  you have at last _escaped_ from the bands of the tyrant who
  misconceived you so far as to offer you service under him. I
  deplore the unhappy circumstances which obliged you to treat
  with him; but I did not feel the slightest uneasiness; the
  heart of my faithful Bretons, and yours in particular, are
  too well known to me. To-day you are free, you are near my
  brother, all my hopes revive. I need not say more to such a
  Frenchman as you.

  LOUIS.

To this letter were added a lieutenant-general's commission and
the grand cordon of Saint-Louis.




CHAPTER LI

THE ARMY OF THE RESERVES

The First Consul had reached the point he desired. The Companions
of Jehu were destroyed and the Vendée was pacificated.

When demanding peace from England he had hoped for war. He understood
very well that, born of war, he could exist only by war. He seemed
to foresee that a poet would arise and call him "The Giant of
War."

But war--what war? Where should he wage it? An article of the
constitution of the year VIII. forbade the First Consul to command
the armies in person, or to leave France.

In all constitutions there is inevitably some absurd provision.
Happy the constitutions that have but one! The First Consul found
a means to evade this particular absurdity.

He established a camp at Dijon. The army which occupied this camp
was called the Army of the Reserves. The force withdrawn from
Brittany and the Vendée, some thirty thousand men in all, formed the
nucleus of this army. Twenty thousand conscripts were incorporated
in it; General Berthier was appointed commander-in-chief. The
plan which Bonaparte explained to Roland in his study one day
was still working in his mind. He expected to recover Italy by
a single battle, but that battle must be a great victory.

Moreau, as a reward for his co-operation on the 18th Brumaire,
received the command he had so much desired. He was made
commander-in-chief of the Army of the Rhine, I with eighty thousand
men under him. Augereau, with twenty-five thousand more, was on
the Dutch frontier. And Masséna, commanding the Army of Italy,
had withdrawn to the country about Genoa, where he was tenaciously
maintaining himself against the land forces of the Austrian General
Ott, and the British fleet under Admiral Keith.

While the latter movements were taking place in Italy, Moreau
had assumed the offensive on the Rhine, and defeated the enemy
at Stockach and Moeskirch. A single victory was to furnish an
excuse to put the Army of Reserves under waiting orders. Two
victories would leave no doubt as to the necessity of co-operation.
Only, how was this army to be transported to Italy?

Bonaparte's first thought was to march up the Valais and to cross
the Simplon. He would thus turn Piedmont and enter Milan. But the
operation was a long one, and must be done overtly. Bonaparte
renounced it. His plan was to surprise the Austrians and to appear
with his whole army on the plains of Piedmont before it was even
suspected that he had crossed the Alps. He therefore decided to
make the passage of the Great Saint-Bernard. It was for this
purpose that he had sent the fifty thousand francs, seized by
the Companions of Jehu, to the monks whose monastery crowns that
mountain. Another fifty thousand had been sent since, which had
reached their destination safely. By the help of this money the
monastery was to be amply provisioned for an army of fifty thousand
men halting there for a day.

Consequently, toward the end of April the whole of the artillery
was advanced to Lauzanne, Villeneuve, Martigny, and Saint-Pierre.
General Marmont, commanding the artillery, had already been sent
forward to find a means of transporting cannon over the Alps.
It was almost an impracticable thing to do; and yet it must be
achieved. No precedent existed as a guide. Hannibal with his
elephants, Numidians, and Gauls; Charlemagne with his Franks,
had no such obstacles to surmount.

During the campaign in Italy in 1796, the army had not crossed
the Alps, but turned them, descending from Nice to Cerasco by
the Corniche road. This time a truly titanic work was undertaken.

In the first place, was the mountain unoccupied? The mountain
without the Austrians was in itself difficult enough to conquer!
Lannes was despatched like a forlorn hope with a whole division.
He crossed the peak of the Saint-Bernard without baggage or
artillery, and took possession of Châtillon. The Austrians had
left no troops in Piedmont, except the cavalry in barracks and
a few posts of observation. There were no obstacles to contend
with except those of nature. Operations were begun at once.

Sledges had been made to transport the guns; but narrow as they
might be, they were still too wide for the road. Some other means
must be devised. The trunks of pines were hollowed and the guns
inserted. At one end was a rope to pull them, at the other a
tiller to guide them. Twenty grenadiers took the cables. Twenty
others carried the baggage of those who drew them. An artilleryman
commanded each detachment with absolute power, if need be, over
life and death. The iron mass in such a case was far more precious
than the flesh of men.

Before leaving each man received a pair of new shoes and twenty
biscuits. Each put on his shoes and hung his biscuits around his
neck. The First Consul, stationed at the foot of the mountain,
gave to each cannon detachment the word to start.

A man must traverse the same roads as a tourist, on foot or on
mule-back, he must plunge his eye to the depth of the precipice,
before he can have any idea of what this crossing was. Up, always
up those beetling slopes, by narrow paths, on jagged stones,
which cut the shoes first, the feet next!

From time to time they stopped, drew breath, and then on again
without a murmur. The ice-belt was reached. Before attempting it
the men received new shoes; those of the morning were in shreds. A
biscuit was eaten, a drop of brandy from the canteen was swallowed,
and on they went. No man knew whither he was climbing. Some asked
how many more days it would take; others if they might stop for
a moment at the moon. At last they came to the eternal snows.
There the toil was less severe. The gun-logs slid upon the snow,
and they went faster.

One fact will show the measure of power given to the artilleryman
who commanded each gun.

General Chamberlhac was passing. He thought the advance not fast
enough. Wishing to hasten it, he spoke to an artilleryman in a
tone of command.

"You are not in command here," replied the man; "I am. I am
responsible for the gun; I direct its march. Pass on."

The general approached the artilleryman as if to take him by
the throat. But the man stepped back, saying: "General, don't
touch me, or I will send you to the bottom of that precipice
with a blow of this tiller."

After unheard-of toil they reached the foot of the last rise, at
the summit of which stands the convent. There they found traces
of Lannes' division. As the slope was very steep, the soldiers
had cut a sort of stairway in the ice. The men now scaled it.
The fathers of Saint-Bernard were awaiting them on the summit. As
each gun came up the men were taken by squads into the hospice.
Tables were set along the passage with bread and Gruyere cheese
and wine.

When the soldiers left the convent they pressed the hands of the
monks and embraced the dogs.

The descent at first seemed easier than the ascent, and the officers
declared it was their turn to drag the guns. But now the cannon
outstripped the teams, and some were dragged down faster than
they wished. General Lannes and his division were still in the
advance. He had reached the valley before the rest of the army,
entered the Aosta, and received his orders to march upon Ivrea,
at the entrance to the plains of Piedmont. There, however, he
encountered an obstacle which no one had foreseen.

The fortress of Bard is situated about twenty-four miles from
Aosta. On the road to Ivrea, a little behind the village, a small
hill closes the valley almost hermetically. The river Dora flows
between this hill and the mountain on the right. The river, or
rather, the torrent, fills the whole space. The mountain on the
left presents very much the same aspect; only, instead of the
river, it is the highroad which passes between the hill and the
mountain. It is there that the fortress of Bard stands. It is
built on the summit of the hill, and extends down one side of
it to the highroad.

How was it that no one had thought of this obstacle which was
well nigh insurmountable? There was no way to assault it from
the bottom of the valley, and it was impossible to scale the
rocks above it.

Yet, by dint of searching, they did find a path that they were
able to level sufficiently for the cavalry and the infantry to
pass; but they tried in vain to get the artillery over it, although
they took the guns apart as at the Mont Saint-Bernard.

Bonaparte ordered two cannon levelled on the road, and opened
fire on the fortress; but it was soon evident that these guns
made no effect. Moreover, a cannon ball from the fortress struck
one of the two cannon and shattered it. The First Consul then
ordered an assault by storm.

Columns formed in the village, and armed with ladders dashed
up at a run and reached the fortress at several points; but to
insure success, not only celerity, but silence was needed. It
ought to have been a surprise; but Colonel Dufour, who commanded
one column, ordered the advance to be sounded, and marched boldly
to the assault. The column was repulsed, and the colonel received
a ball through his body.

Then a company of picked marksmen were chosen. They were supplied
with provisions and cartridges, and crept between the rocks until
they reached a ledge, from which they commanded the fort. From
this ledge they discovered another, not quite so high, but which
also overlooked the fort. To this they contrived, with extreme
difficulty, to hoist two guns, with which they formed a battery.
These two pieces on one side, and the sharpshooters on the other,
began to make the enemy uneasy.

In the meantime, General Marmont proposed a plan to the First
Consul, so bold that the enemy could not suspect it. It was nothing
less than to move the artillery along the highroad, notwithstanding
that the enemy could rake it.

Manure and wool from the mattresses were found in the villages
and were spread upon the road. The wheels and chains, and all
the jingling portions of the gun-carriages were swathed in hay.
The horses belonging to the guns and caissons were taken out,
and fifty men supplied their places. This latter precaution had
two advantages: first, the horses might neigh, while the men
had every interest in keeping dead silence; secondly, a dead
horse will stop a whole convoy, whereas a dead man, not being
fastened to the traces, can be pushed aside and his place taken
without even stopping the march. An officer and a subordinate
officer of artillery were placed in charge of each carriage or
caisson, with the promise of six hundred francs for the transport
of each gun or wagon beyond the range of the fort.

General Marmont, who had proposed the plan, superintended the
first operation himself. Happily, a storm prevailed and made
the night extremely dark. The first six cannon and the first
six caissons passed without a single shot from the fortress. The
men returned, picking their steps silently, one after another,
in single file; but this time the enemy must have heard some
noise, and, wishing to knew the cause, threw hand-grenades.
Fortunately, they fell beyond the road.

Why should these men, who had once passed, return? Merely to
get their muskets and knapsacks. This might have been avoided
had they been stowed on the caissons; but no one can think of
everything, and, as it happened, no one in the fort at Bard had
thought at all.

As soon as the possibility of the passage was demonstrated, the
transport of the artillery became a duty like any other; only,
now that the enemy were warned, it was more dangerous. The fort
resembled a volcano with its belching flames and smoke; but,
owing to the vertical direction in which it was forced to fire,
it made more noise than it did harm. Five or six men were killed
to each wagon; that is to say, a tenth of each fifty; but the
cannon once safely past, the fate of the campaign was secure.

Later it was discovered that the pass of the Little Saint-Bernard
would have been practicable, and that the whole artillery could
have crossed it without dismounting a gun or losing a man. It
is true, however, that the feat would have been less glorious
because less difficult.

The army was now in the fertile plains of Piedmont. It was reinforced
on the Ticino by a corps of twelve thousand men detached from
the Army of the Rhine by Moreau, who, after the two victories
he had just won, could afford to lend this contingent to the
Army of Italy. He had sent them by the Saint-Gothard. Thus
strengthened, the First Consul entered Milan without striking
a blow.

By the bye, how came the First Consul, who, according to a provision
of the constitution of the year VIII., could not assume command
of the army, nor yet leave France, to be where he was? We shall
now tell you.

The evening before the day on which he left Paris--that is to
say, the 15th of May, or, according to the calendars of the time,
the 15th Floreal--he had sent for the two other consuls and all
the ministers, saying to Lucien: "Prepare a circular letter to
the prefects to-morrow." Then he said to Fouché: "You will publish
the circular in all the newspapers. You are to say that I have
left for Dijon to inspect the Army of the Reserves. Add, but
without affirming it positively, that I may go as far as Geneva.
In any case, let it be well impressed on everyone that I shall
not be absent more than a fortnight. If anything unusual happens
I shall return like a thunderclap. I commend to your keeping all
the great interests of France; and I hope you will soon hear
of me by way of Vienna and London."

On the 6th he started. From that moment his strong determination
was to make his way to the plains of Piedmont, and there to fight
a decisive battle. Then, as he never doubted that he would conquer,
he would answer, like Scipio, to those who accused him of violating
the constitution: "On such a day, at such an hour, I fought the
Carthagenians; let us go to the capitol, and render thanks to
the gods."

Leaving France on the 6th of May, the First Consul was encamped
with his whole army between Casale and Turin on the 26th of the
same month. It had rained the whole day; but, as often happens
in Italy, toward evening the sky had cleared, changing in a few
moments from murky darkness to loveliest azure, and the stars
came sparkling out.

The First Consul signed to Roland to follow him, and together
they issued from the little town of Chivasso and walked along
the banks of the river. About a hundred yards beyond the last
house a tree, blown down by the wind, offered a seat to the
pedestrians. Bonaparte sat down and signed to Roland to join
him. He apparently had something to say, some confidence to make
to his young aide-de-camp.

Both were silent for a time, and then Bonaparte said: "Roland, do
you remember a conversation we had together at the Luxembourg?"

"General," said Roland, laughing, "we had a good many conversations
together at the Luxembourg; in one of which you told me we were
to cross into Italy in the spring, and fight General Mélas at
Torre di Gallifolo or San-Guiliano. Does that still hold good?"

"Yes; but that is not the conversation I mean."

"What was it, general?"

"The day we talked of marriage."

"Ah, yes! My sister's marriage. That has probably taken place
by this time, general."

"I don't mean your sister's marriage; I mean yours."

"Good!" said Roland, with a bitter smile. "I thought that had
been disposed of, general." And he made a motion as if to rise.
Bonaparte caught him by the arm.

"Do you know whom I meant you to marry at that time, Roland?" he
said, with a gravity that showed he was determined to be heard.

"No, general."

"Well, my sister Caroline."

"Your sister?"

"Yes. Does that astonish you?"

"I had no idea you had ever thought of doing me that honor."

"Either you are ungrateful, Roland, or you are saying what you
do not mean. You know that I love you."

"Oh! my general!"

He took the First Consul's two hands and pressed them with the
deepest gratitude.

"Yes, I should have liked you for my brother-in-law."

"Your sister and Murat love each other, general," said Roland.
"It is much better that the plan should have gone no further.
Besides," he added, in muffled tones, "I thought I told you that
I did not care to marry."

Bonaparte smiled. "Why don't you say offhand that you intend becoming
a Trappist father?"

"Faith, general, re-establish the cloisters and remove these
opportunities for me to try to get myself killed, which, thank
God! are not lacking, and you have guessed what my end will be."

"Are you in love? Is this the result of some woman's faithlessness?"

"Good!" said Roland, "so you think I am in love! That is the last
straw!"

"Do you complain of my affection when I wished to marry you to
my sister?"

"But the thing is impossible now! Your three sisters are all
married--one to General Leduc, one to Prince Bacciocchi, and the
third to Murat."

"In short," said Bonaparte, laughing, "you feel easy and settled
in your mind. You think yourself rid of my alliance."

"Oh, general!" exclaimed Roland.

"You are not ambitious, it seems?"

"General, let me love you for all the good you have done to me,
and not for what you seek to do."

"But suppose it is for my own interests that I seek to bind you
to me, not by the ties of friendship alone, but also by those
of matrimony. Suppose I say to you: In my plans for the future
I cannot rely upon my two brothers, whereas I could never for
one instant doubt you?"

"In heart, yes, you are right."

"In all respects! What can I do with Leclerc--a commonplace man;
with Bacciocchi--who is not French; with Murat--lion-hearted and
feather-brained? And yet some day I shall have to make princes
of them because they are my sisters' husbands. When that time
comes, what can I make of you?"

"A marshal of France."

"And afterward?"

"Afterward? I should say that was enough."

"And then you would be one of twelve, and not a unity of your own."

"Let me be simply your friend. Let me always thresh out the truth
with you, and then I'll warrant I shall be out of the crowd."

"That may be enough for you, Roland, but it is not enough for me,"
persisted Bonaparte. Then, as Roland said nothing, he continued,
"I have no more sisters, Roland, it is true; but I have dreamed
that you might be something more to me than a brother." Then,
as Roland still said nothing, he went on: "I know a young girl,
Roland, a charming child, whom I love as a daughter. She is just
seventeen. You are twenty-six, and a brigadier-general _de
facto_. Before the end of the campaign you will be general
of division. Well, Roland, when the campaign is over, we will
return together to Paris, and you shall marry her--"

"General," interrupted Roland, "I think I see Bourrienne looking
for you."

And in fact the First Consul's secretary was already within two
feet of the friends.

"Is that you, Bourrienne?" asked Bonaparte, somewhat impatiently.

"Yes, general, a courier from France."

"Ah!"

"And a letter from Madame Bonaparte."

"Good!" said the First Consul, rising eagerly, "give it to me."
And he almost snatched the letter from Bourrienne's hand.

"And for me?" asked Roland. "Nothing for me?"

"Nothing."

"That is strange," said the young man, pensively.

The moon had risen, and by its clear, beautiful light Bonaparte
was able to read his letters. Through the first two pages his
face expressed perfect serenity. Bonaparte adored his wife; the
letters published by Queen Hortense bear witness to that fact.
Roland watched these expressions of the soul on his general's
face. But toward the close of the letter Bonaparte's face clouded;
he frowned and cast a furtive glance at Roland.

"Ah!" exclaimed the young man, "it seems there is something about
me in the letter."

Bonaparte did not answer and continued to read. When he had finished,
he folded the letter and put it in the side pocket of his coat.
Then, turning to Bourrienne, he said: "Very well, we will return.
I shall probably have to despatch a courier. Go mend some pens
while you are waiting for me."

Bourrienne bowed and returned to Chivasso.

Bonaparte then went up to Roland and laid his hand on his shoulder,
saying: "I have no luck with the marriages I attempt to make."

"How so?" asked Roland.

"Your sister's marriage is off."

"Has she refused?"

"No; she has not."

"She has not? Can it be Sir John?"

"Yes."

"Refused to marry my sister after asking her of me, of my mother,
of you, of herself?"

"Come, don't begin to get angry. Try to see that there is some
mystery in all this."

"I don't see any mystery, I see an insult!"

"Ah! there you are, Roland. That explains why your mother and
sister did not write to you. But Josephine thought the matter
so serious that you ought to be informed. She writes me this
news and asks me to tell you of it if I think best. You see I
have not hesitated."

"I thank you sincerely, general. Does Lord Tanlay give any reason
for this refusal?"

"A reason that is no reason."

"What is it?"

"It can't be the true one."

"But what is it?"

"It is only necessary to look at the man and to talk with him
for five minutes to understand that."

"But, general, what reason does he give for breaking his word?"

"That your sister is not as rich as he thought she was."

Roland burst into that nervous laugh which was a sign with him
of violent agitation.

"Ha!" said he, "that was the very first thing I told him."

"What did you tell him?"

"That my sister hadn't a penny. How can the children of republican
generals be rich?"

"And what did he answer?"

"That he was rich enough for two."

"You see, therefore, that that was not the real reason for his
refusal."

"And it is your opinion that one of your aides-de-camp can receive
such an insult, and not demand satisfaction?"

"In such situations the person who feels affronted must judge
of the matter for himself, my dear Roland."

"General, how many days do you think it will be before we have
a decisive action?"

Bonaparte calculated.

"Not less than fifteen days, or three weeks," he answered.

"Then, general, I ask you for a furlough of fifteen days."

"On one condition."

"What is it?"

"That you will first go to Bourg and ask your sister from which
side the refusal came."

"That is my intention."

"In that case you have not a moment to lose."

"You see I lose none," said the young man, already on his way
to the village.

"One moment," said Bonaparte; "you will take my despatches to
Paris, won't you?"

"Ah! I see; I am the courier you spoke of just now to Bourrienne."

"Precisely."

"Come then."

"Wait one moment. The young men you arrested--"

"The Companions of Jehu?"

"Yes. Well, it seems that they were all of noble families. They
were fanatics rather than criminals. It appears that your mother
has been made the victim of some judicial trick or other in
testifying at their trial and has called their conviction."

"Possibly. My mother was in the coach stopped by them, as you
know, and saw the face of their leader."

"Well, your mother implores me, through Josephine, to pardon
those poor madmen--that is the very word she uses. They have
appealed their case. You will get there before the appeal can
be rejected, and, if you think it desirable, tell the minister
of Justice for me to suspend matters. After you get back we can
see what is best to be done."

"Thank you, general. Anything more?"

"No," said Bonaparte, "except to think over our conversation."

"What was it about?"

"Your marriage."




CHAPTER LII

THE TRIAL

"Well, I'll say as you did just now, we'll talk about it when
I return, if I do."

"Bless me!" exclaimed Bonaparte, "I'm not afraid; you'll kill
him as you have the others; only this time, I must admit, I shall
be sorry to have him die."

"If you are going to feel so badly about it, general, I can easily
be killed in his stead."

"Don't do anything foolish, ninny!" cried Bonaparte; hastily;
"I should feel still worse if I lost you."

"Really, general, you are the hardest man to please that I know
of," said Roland with his harsh laugh.

And this time he took his way to Chivasso without further delay.

Half an hour later, Roland was galloping along the road to Ivrae
in a post-chaise. He was to travel thus to Aosta, at Aosta take
a mule, cross the Saint-Bernard to Martigny, thence to Geneva,
on to Bourg, and from Bourg to Paris.

While he is galloping along let us see what has happened in France,
and clear up the points in the conversation between Bonaparte and
his aide-de-camp which must be obscure to the reader's mind.

The prisoners which Roland had made at the grotto of Ceyzeriat
had remained but one night in the prison at Bourg. They had been
immediately transferred to that of Besançon, where they were
to appear before a council of war.

It will be remembered that two of these prisoners were so grievously
wounded that they were carried into Bourg on stretchers. One
of them died that same night, the other, three days after they
reached Besançon. The number of prisoners was therefore reduced
to four; Morgan, who had surrendered himself voluntarily and
who was safe and sound, and Montbar, Adler, and d'Assas, who
were more or less wounded in the fight, though none of them
dangerously. These four aliases hid, as the reader will remember,
the real names of the Baron de Sainte-Hermine, the Comte de Jayat,
the Vicomte de Valensolle, and the Marquis de Ribier.

While the evidence was being taken against the four prisoners
before the military commission at Besançon, the time expired
when under the law such cases were tried by courts-martial. The
prisoners became accountable therefore to the civil tribunals.
This made a great difference to them, not only as to the penalty
if convicted, but in the mode of execution. Condemned by a
court-martial, they would be shot; condemned by the courts, they
would be guillotined. Death by the first was not infamous; death
by the second was.

As soon as it appeared that their case was to be brought before
a jury, it belonged by law to the court of Bourg. Toward the
end of March the prisoners were therefore transferred from the
prison of Besançon to that of Bourg, and the first steps toward
a trial were taken.

But here the prisoners adopted a line of defence that greatly
embarrassed the prosecuting officers. They declared themselves to
be the Baron de Sainte-Hermine, the Comte de Jayat, the Vicomte
de Valensolle, and the Marquis de Ribier, and to have no connection
with the pillagers of diligences, whose names were Morgan, Montbar,
Adler, and d'Assas. They acknowledged having belonged to armed
bands; but these forces belonged to the army of M. de Teyssonnet
and were a ramification of the army of Brittany intended to operate
in the East and the Midi, while the army of Brittany, which had
just signed a peace, operated in the North. They had waited only
to hear of Cadoudal's surrender to do likewise, and the despatch
of the Breton leader was no doubt on its way to them when they
were attacked and captured.

It was difficult to disprove this. The diligences had invariably
been pillaged by masked, men, and, apart from Madame de Montrevel
and Sir John Tanlay, no one had ever seen the faces of the
assailants.

The reader will recall those circumstances: Sir John, on the
night they had tried, condemned, and stabbed him; Madame de
Montrevel, when the diligence was stopped, and she, in her nervous
struggle, had struck off the mask of the leader.

Both had been summoned before the preliminary court and both
had been confronted with the prisoners; but neither Sir John
nor Madame de Montrevel had recognized any of them. How came
they to practice this deception? As for Madame de Montrevel, it
was comprehensible. She felt a double gratitude to the man who
had come to her assistance, and who had also forgiven, and even
praised, Edouard's attack upon himself. But Sir John's silence
was more difficult to explain, for among the four prisoners he
must have recognized at least two of his assailants.

They had recognized him, and a certain quiver had run through
their veins as they did so, but their eyes were none the less
resolutely fixed upon him, when, to their great astonishment,
Sir John, in spite of the judge's insistence, had calmly replied:
"I have not the honor of knowing these gentlemen."

Amélie--we have not spoken of her, for there are sorrows no pen
can depict--Amélie, pale, feverish, almost expiring since that
fatal night when Morgan was arrested, awaited the return of her
mother and Sir John from the preliminary trial with dreadful
anxiety. Sir John arrived first. Madame de Montrevel had remained
behind to give some orders to Michel. As soon as Amélie saw him
she rushed forward, crying out: "What happened?"

Sir John looked behind him, to make sure that Madame de Montrevel
could neither see nor hear him, then he said: "Your mother and
I recognized no one."

"Ah! how noble you are I how generous! how good, my lord!" cried
the young girl, trying to kiss his hand.

But he, withdrawing his hand, said hastily: "I have only done
as I promised you; but hush--here is your mother."

Amélie stepped back. "Ah, mamma!" she said, "so you did not say
anything to compromise those unfortunate men?"

"What!" replied Madame de Montrevel; "would you have me send to
the scaffold a man who had helped me, and who, instead of punishing
Edouard, kissed him?"

"And yet," said Amélie, trembling, "you recognized him, did you
not?"

"Perfectly," replied Madame de Montrevel. "He is the fair man with
the black eyebrows who calls himself the Baron de Sainte-Hermine."

Amélie gave a stifled cry. Then, making an effort to control
herself, she said: "Is that the end of it for Sir John and you?
Will you be called to testify again?"

"Probably not," replied Madame de Montrevel.

"In any case," observed Sir John, "as neither your mother nor
I recognized any one, she will persist in that declaration."

"Oh I most certainly," exclaimed Madame de Montrevel. "God keep
me from causing the death of that unhappy young man. I should
never forgive myself. It is bad enough that Roland should have
been the one to capture him and his companions."

Amélie sighed, but nevertheless her face assumed a calmer expression.
She looked gratefully at Sir John, and then went up to her room,
where Charlotte was waiting for her. Charlotte had become more
than a maid, she was now Amélie's friend. Every day since the
four young men had returned to the prison at Bourg she had gone
there to see her father for an hour or so. During these visits
nothing was talked of but the prisoners, whom the worthy jailer,
royalist as he was, pitied with all his heart. Charlotte made him
tell her everything, even to their slightest words, and later
reported all to Amélie.

Matters stood thus when Madame de Montrevel and Sir John arrived
at Noires-Fontaines. Before leaving Paris, the First Consul had
informed Madame de Montrevel, both through Josephine and Roland,
that he approved of her daughter's marriage, and wished it to
take place during his absence, and as soon as possible. Sir John
had declared to her that his most ardent wishes were for this
union, and that he only awaited Amélie's commands to become the
happiest of men. Matters having reached this point, Madame de
Montrevel, on the morning of the day on which she and Sir John
were to give their testimony, had arranged a private interview
between her daughter and Sir John.

The interview lasted over an hour, and Sir John did not leave
Amélie until the carriage came to the door which was to take
Madame de Montrevel and himself to the court. We have seen that
his deposition was all in the prisoners' favor, and we have also
seen how Amélie received him on his return.

That evening Madame de Montrevel had a long conversation with
her daughter. To her mother's pressing inquiries, Amélie merely
replied that the state of her health was such that she desired a
postponement of her marriage, and that she counted on Sir John's
delicacy to grant it.

The next day Madame de Montrevel was obliged to return to Paris,
her position in Madame Bonaparte's household not admitting of
longer absence. The morning of her departure she urged Amélie to
accompany her; but again the young girl dwelt upon the feebleness
of her health. The sweetest and most reviving months in the year
were just opening, and she begged to be allowed to spend then
in the country, for they were sure, she said, to do her good.

Madame de Montrevel, always unable to deny Amélie anything, above
all where it concerned her health, granted her request.

On her return to Paris, Madame de Montrevel travelled as before,
with Sir John. Much to her surprise, during the two days' journey
he did not say anything to her about his marriage to Amélie.
But Madame Bonaparte, as soon as she saw her friend, asked the
usual question: "Well, when shall we marry Amélie and Sir John?
You know how much the First Consul desires it."

To which Madame de Montrevel replied: "It all depends on Sir John."

This response furnished Madame Bonaparte with much food for
reflection. Why should a man who had been so eager suddenly grow
cold? Time alone could explain the mystery.

Time went by, and the trial of the prisoners began. They were
confronted with all the travellers who had signed the various
depositions, which, as we have seen, were in the possession of
the minister of police. No one had recognized them, for no one
had seen their faces uncovered. Moreover, the travellers asserted
that none of their property, either money or jewels, had been
taken. Jean Picot testified that the two hundred louis which
had been taken from him by accident had been returned.

These preliminary inquiries lasted over two months. At the end
of that time the accused, against whom there was no evidence
connecting them with the pillage of the coaches, were under no
accusation but that of their own admissions; that is to say,
of being affiliated with the Breton and Vendéan insurrection.
They were simply one of the armed bands roaming the Jura under
the orders of M. de Teyssonnet.

The judges delayed the final trial as long as possible, hoping
that some more direct testimony might be discovered. This hope
was balked. No one had really suffered from the deeds imputed to
these young men, except the Treasury, whose misfortunes concerned
no one. The trial could not be delayed any longer.

The prisoners, on their side, had made the best of their time.
By means, as we have seen, of an exchange of passports, Morgan
had travelled sometimes as Ribier, and Ribier as Sainte-Hermine,
and so with the others. The result was a confusion in the testimony
of the innkeepers, which the entries in their books only served
to increase. The arrival of travellers, noted on the registers
an hour too early or an hour too late, furnished the prisoners
with irrefutable alibis. The judges were morally convinced of
their guilt; but their conviction was impossible against such
testimony.

On the other hand, it must be said that public sympathy was wholly
with the prisoners.

The trial began. The prison at Bourg adjoins the courtroom. The
prisoners could be brought there through the interior passages.
Large as the hall was, it was crowded on the opening day. The
whole population of Bourg thronged about the doors, and persons
came from Mâcon, Sons-le-Saulnier, Besançon, and Nantua, so great
was the excitement caused by the stoppages, and so popular were
the exploits of the Companions of Jehu.

The entrance of the four prisoners was greeted by a murmur in
which there was nothing offensive. Public sentiment seemed equally
divided between curiosity and sympathy. Their presence, it must
be admitted, was well calculated to inspire both. Very handsome,
dressed in the latest fashion of the day, self-possessed without
insolence, smiling toward the audience, courteous to their judges,
though at times a little sarcastic, their personal appearance
was their best defence.

The oldest of the four was barely thirty. Questioned as to their
names, Christian and family, their age, and places of birth,
they answered as follows:

"Charles de Sainte-Hermine, born at Tours, department of the
Indre-et-Loire, aged twenty-four."

"Louis-André de Jayat, born at Bage-le-Château, department of
the Ain, aged twenty-nine."

"Raoul-Frederic-Auguste de Valensolle, born at Sainte-Colombe,
department of the Rhone, aged twenty-seven."

"Pierre-Hector de Ribier, born at Bollène, department of Vaucluse,
aged twenty-six."

Questioned as to their social condition and state, all four said
they were of noble rank and royalists.

These fine young men, defending themselves against death on the
scaffold, not against a soldier's death before the guns--who asked
the death they claimed to have merited as insurrectionists, but a
death of honor--formed a splendid spectacle of youth, courage,
and gallant bearing.

The judges saw plainly that on the accusation of being
insurrectionists, the Vendée having submitted and Brittany being
pacificated, they would have to be acquitted. That was not a
result to satisfy the minister of police. Death awarded by a
council of war would not have satisfied him; he had determined
that these men should die the death of malefactors, a death of
infamy.

The trial had now lasted three days without proceeding in the
direction of the minister's wishes. Charlotte, who could reach
the courtroom through the prison, was there each day, and returned
each night to Amélie with some fresh word of hope. On the fourth
day, Amélie could bear the suspense no longer. She dressed herself
in a costume similar to the one that Charlotte wore, except that
the black lace of the head-dress was longer and thicker than
is usual with the Bressan peasant woman. It formed a veil and
completely hid her features.

Charlotte presented Amélie to her father as one of her friends
who was anxious to see the trial. The good man did not recognize
Mademoiselle de Montrevel, and in order to enable the young girls
to see the prisoners well he placed them in the doorway of the
porter's room, which opened upon the passage leading to the
courtroom. This passage was so narrow at this particular point
that the four gendarmes who accompanied the prisoners changed
the line of march. First came two officers, then the prisoners
one by one, then the other two officers. The girls stood in the
doorway.

When Amélie heard the doors open she was obliged to lean upon
Charlotte's shoulder for support, the earth seemed to give way
under her feet and the wall at her back. She heard the sound
of feet and the rattle of the gendarmes' sabres, then the door
of the prison opened.

First one gendarme appeared, then another, then Sainte-Hermine,
walking first, as though he were still Morgan, the captain of
the Companions of Jehu.

As he passed Amélie murmured: "Charles!"

The prisoner recognized the beloved voice, gave a faint cry,
and felt a paper slip into his hand. He pressed that precious
hand, murmured her name, and passed on.

The others who followed did not, or pretended not to, notice the
two girls. As for the gendarmes, they had seen and heard nothing.

As soon as the party stepped into the light, Morgan unfolded the
note and read as follows:

  Do not be anxious, my beloved Charles; I am and ever will be
  your faithful Amélie, in life or death. I have told all to Lord
  Tanlay. He is the most generous man on earth; he has promised me
  to break off the marriage and to take the whole responsibility
  on himself. I love you.

Morgan kissed the note and put it in his breast. Then he glanced
down the corridor and saw the two Bressan women leaning against
the door. Amélie had risked all to see him once more. It is true,
however, that at this last session of the court no additional
witnesses were expected who could injure the accused, and in the
absence of proof it was impossible to convict them.

The best lawyers in the department, those of Lyons and Besançon,
had been retained by the prisoners for their defence. Each had
spoken in turn, destroying bit by bit the indictment, as, in the
tournaments of the Middle Ages, a strong and dexterous knight
was wont to knock off, piece by piece, his adversary's armor.
Flattering applause had followed the more remarkable points of
their arguments, in spite of the usher's warnings and the
admonitions of the judge.

Amélie, with clasped hands, was thanking God, who had so visibly
manifested Himself in the prisoners' favor. A dreadful weight
was lifted from her tortured breast. She breathed with joy, and
looked through tears of gratitude at the Christ which hung above
the judge's head.

The arguments were all made, and the case about to be closed.
Suddenly an usher entered the courtroom, approached the judge,
and whispered something in his ear.

"Gentlemen," said the judge, "the court is adjourned for a time.
Let the prisoners be taken out."

There was a movement of feverish anxiety among the audience.
What could have happened? What unexpected event was about to
take place? Every one looked anxiously at his neighbor. Amélie's
heart was wrung by a presentiment. She pressed her hand to her
breast; it was as though an ice-cold iron had pierced it to the
springs of life.

The gendarmes rose. The prisoners did likewise, and were then
marched back to their cells. One after the other they passed
Amélie. The hands of the lovers touched each other; those of
Amélie were as cold as death.

"Whatever happens, thank you," said Charles, as he passed.

Amélie tried to answer, but the words died on her lips.

During this time the judge had risen and passed into the
council-chamber. There he found a veiled woman, who had just
descended from a carriage at the door of the courthouse, and had
not spoken to any one on her way in.

"Madame," said the judge, "I offer you many excuses for the way
in which I have brought you from Paris; but the life of a man
depends upon it, and before that consideration everything must
yield."

"You have no need to excuse yourself, sir," replied the veiled
lady, "I know the prerogatives of the law, and I am here at your
orders."

"Madame," said the judge, "the court and myself recognize the
feeling of delicacy which prompted you, when first confronted
with the prisoners, to decline to recognize the one who assisted
you when fainting. At that time the prisoners denied their identity
with the pillagers of the diligences. Since then they have confessed
all; but it is our wish to know the one who showed you that
consideration, in order that we may recommend him to the First
Consul's clemency."

"What!" exclaimed the lady, "have they really confessed?"

"Yes, madame, but they will not say which of their number helped
you, fearing, no doubt, to contradict your testimony, and thus
cause you embarrassment."

"What is it you request of me, sir?"

"That you will save the gentleman who assisted you."

"Oh! willingly," said the lady, rising; "what am I to do?"

"Answer a question which I shall ask you."

"I am ready, sir."

"Wait here a moment. You will be sent for presently."

The judge went back into the courtroom. A gendarme was placed
at each door to prevent any one from approaching the lady. The
judge resumed his seat.

"Gentlemen," said he, "the session is reopened."

General excitement prevailed. The ushers called for silence, and
silence was restored.

"Bring in the witness," said the judge.

An usher opened the door of the council-chamber, and the lady,
still veiled, was brought into court. All eyes turned upon her.
Who was she? Why was she there? What had she come for? Amélie's
eyes fastened upon her at once.

"O my God!" she murmured, "grant that I be mistaken."

"Madame," said the judge, "the prisoners are about to be brought
in. Have the goodness to point out the one who, when the Geneva
diligence was stopped, paid you those attentions."

A shudder ran through the audience. They felt that some fatal
trap had been laid for the prisoners.

A dozen voices began to shout: "Say nothing!" but the ushers,
at a sign from the judge, cried out imperatively: "Silence!"

Amélie's heart turned deadly cold. A cold sweat poured from her
forehead. Her knees gave way and trembled under her.

"Bring in the prisoners," said the judge, imposing silence by
a look as the usher had with his voice. "And you, madame, have
the goodness to advance and raise your veil."

The veiled lady obeyed.

"My mother!" cried Amélie, but in a voice so choked that only
those near her heard the words.

"Madame de Montrevel!" murmured the audience.

At that moment the first gendarme appeared at the door, then the
second. After him came the prisoners, but not in the same order
as before. Morgan had placed himself third, so that, separated
as he was from the gendarmes by Montbar and Adler in front and
d'Assas behind, he might be better able to clasp Amélie's hand.

Montbar entered first.

Madame de Montrevel shook her head.

Then came Adler.

Madame de Montrevel made the same negative sign.

Just then Morgan passed before Amélie.

"We are lost!" she said.

He looked at her in astonishment as she pressed his hand
convulsively. Then he entered.

"That is he," said Madame de Montrevel, as soon as she saw
Morgan--or, if the reader prefers it, Baron Charles de
Sainte-Hermine--who was now proved one and the same man by means
of Madame de Montrevel's identification.

A long cry of distress burst from the audience. Montbar burst
into a laugh.

"Ha! by my faith!" he cried, "that will teach you, dear friend,
to play the gallant with fainting women." Then, turning to Madame
de Montrevel, he added: "With three short words, madame, you
have decapitated four heads."

A terrible silence fell, in the midst of which a groan was heard.

"Usher," said the judge, "have you warned the public that all
marks of approbation or disapproval are forbidden?"

The usher inquired who had disobeyed the order of the court.
It was a woman wearing the dress of a Bressan peasant, who was
being carried into the jailer's room.

From that moment the accused made no further attempt at denial;
but, just as Morgan had united with them when arrested, they
now joined with him. Their four heads should be saved, or fall
together.

That same day, at ten in the evening, the jury rendered a verdict
of guilty, and the court pronounced the sentence of death.

Three days later, by force of entreaties, the lawyers obtained
permission for the accused to appeal their case; but they were
not admitted to bail.




CHAPTER LIII

IN WHICH AMÉLIE KEEPS HER WORD

The verdict rendered by the jury of the town of Bourg had a terrible
effect, not only in the courtroom, but throughout the entire town.
The four prisoners had shown such chivalric brotherhood, such
noble bearing, such deep conviction in the faith they professed,
that their enemies themselves admired the devotion which had made
robbers and highwaymen of men of rank and family.

Madame de Montrevel, overwhelmed by the part she had been made
to play at the crucial point of this drama, saw but one means of
repairing the evil she had done, and that was to start at once
for Paris and fling herself at the feet of the First Consul,
imploring him to pardon the four condemned men. She did not even
take time to go to the Château des Noires-Fontaines to see Amélie.
She knew that Bonaparte's departure was fixed for the first week
in May, and this was already the 6th. When she last left Paris
everything had been prepared for that departure.

She wrote a line to Amélie explaining by what fatal deception
she had been instrumental in destroying the lives of four men,
when she intended to save the life of one. Then, as if ashamed
of having broken the pledge she had made to Amélie, and above
all to herself, she ordered fresh post-horses and returned to
Paris.

She arrived there on the morning of the 8th of May. Bonaparte
had started on the evening of the 6th. He said on leaving that
he was only going to Dijon, possibly as far as Geneva, but in
any case he should not be absent more than three weeks. The
prisoners' appeal, even if rejected, would not receive final
consideration for five or six weeks. All hope need not therefore
be abandoned.

But, alas! it became evident that the review at Dijon was only
a pretext, that the journey to Geneva had never been seriously
thought of, and that Bonaparte, instead of going to Switzerland,
was really on his way to Italy.

Then Madame de Montrevel, unwilling to appeal to her son, for
she had heard his oath when Lord Tanlay had been left for dead,
and knew the part he had played in the capture of the Companions
of Jehu--then Madame de Montrevel appealed to Josephine, and
Josephine promised to write to the First Consul. That same evening
she kept her promise.

But the trial had made a great stir. It was not with these prisoners
as with ordinary men. Justice made haste, and thirty-five days
after the verdict had been rendered the, appeal was rejected. This
decision was immediately sent to Bourg with an order to execute
the prisoners within twenty-four hours. But notwithstanding the
haste of the minister of police in forwarding this decision,
the first intimation of the fatal news was not received by the
judicial authorities at Bourg. While the prisoners were taking
their daily walk in the courtyard a stone was thrown over the
outer wall and fell at their feet. Morgan, who still retained
in relation to his comrades the position of leader, picked it
up, opened the letter which inclosed the stone, and read it.
Then, turning to his friends, he said: "Gentlemen, the appeal
has been rejected, as we might have expected, and the ceremony
will take place in all probability to-morrow."

Valensolle and Ribier, who were playing a species of quoits with
crown-pieces and louis, left off their game to hear the news.
Having heard it they returned to their game without remark.

Jayat, who was reading "La Nouvelle Héloise," resumed his book,
saying: "Then, I shall not have time to finish M. Jean-Jacques
Rousseau's masterpiece, and upon my word I don't regret it, for
it is the most utterly false and wearisome book I ever read in
my life!"

Sainte-Hermine passed his hand over his forehead, murmuring:
"Poor Amélie!" Then observing Charlotte, who was at the window
of the jailer's room overlooking the courtyard, he went to her.
"Tell Amélie that she must keep the promise she made me, to-night."

The jailer's daughter closed the window, kissed her father, and
told him that in all probability he would see her there again
that evening. Then she returned to Noires-Fontaines, a road she
had taken twice every day for the last two months, once at noon
on her way to the prison, once in the evening on returning to
the château.

Every night she found Amélie in the same place, sitting at the
window which, in happier days, had given admittance to her beloved
Charles. Since the day she had fainted in the courtroom she had
shed no tears, and, we may almost add, had uttered no word. Unlike
the marble of antiquity awakening into life, she might have been
compared to a living woman petrifying into stone. Every day she
grew paler.

Charlotte watched her with astonishment. Common minds, always
impressed by noisy demonstrations, that is to say, by cries and
tears, are unable to understand a mute sorrow. Dumbness to them
means indifference. She was therefore astonished at the calmness
with which Amélie received the message she was charged to deliver.
She did not see in the dimness of the twilight that Amélie's face
from being pale grew livid. She did not feel the deadly clutch
which, like an iron wrench, had seized her heart. She did not know
that as her mistress walked to the door an automatic stiffness
was in her limbs. Nevertheless she followed her anxiously. But
at the door Amélie stretched out her hand.

"Wait for me there," she said.

Charlotte obeyed. Amélie closed the door behind her, and went
up to Roland's room.

Roland's room was veritably that of a soldier and a huntsman,
and its chief adornments were trophies and weapons. Arms of all
kinds were here, French and foreign, from the blue-barrelled
pistol of Versailles to the silver-handled pistol of Cairo, from
the tempered blade of Catalonia to the Turkish cimeter.

Amélie took down from this arsenal four daggers, sharp-edged and
pointed, and eight pistols of different shapes. She put balls
in a bag and powder in a horn. Thus supplied she returned to her
own room. There Charlotte assisted her in putting on the peasant
gown. Then she waited for the night.

Night comes late in June. Amélie stood motionless, mute, leaning
against the chimney-piece, and looking through the open window at
the village of Ceyzeriat, which was slowly disappearing in the
gathering shades of night. When she could no longer distinguish
anything but the lights which were being lighted one by one, she
said:

"Come, it is time to go."

The two young girls went out. Michel paid no attention to Amélie,
supposing her to be some friend of Charlotte's, who had called to
see her and whom the jailer's daughter was now escorting home.

Ten o'clock was striking as they passed the church of Brou. It
was quarter past when Charlotte knocked at the prison door. Old
Courtois opened it.

We have already shown the political opinions of the worthy jailer.
He was a royalist. He therefore felt the deepest sympathy for
the four condemned men, and had hoped, like nearly every one in
Bourg--like Madame de Montrevel, whose despair at what she had
done was known to him--that the First Consul would pardon them.
He had therefore mitigated their captivity as much as possible,
without failing in his duty, by relieving them of all needless
restrictions. On the other hand, it is true that he had refused
a gift of sixty thousand francs (a sum which in those days was
worth nearly treble what it is now) to allow them to escape.

We have seen how, being taken into confidence by his daughter,
he had allowed Amélie, disguised as a Bressan peasant, to be
present at the trial. The reader will also remember the kindness
the worthy man had shown to Amélie and her mother when they
themselves were prisoners. This time, as he was still ignorant
of the rejection of the appeal, he allowed his feelings to be
worked upon. Charlotte had told him that her young mistress was to
start that night for Paris to endeavor to hasten the pardon, and
that she desired before leaving to see the Baron de Sainte-Hermine
and obtain his last instructions.

There were five doors to break through to reach the street, a
squad of guards in the courtyard, and sentinels within and without
the prison. Consequently Père Courtois felt no anxiety lest his
prisoners escape. He therefore consented that Amélie should see
Morgan.

We trust our readers will excuse us if we use the names Morgan,
Charles, and the Baron de Sainte-Hermine, interchangeably, since
they are aware that by that triple appellation we intend to designate
the same man.

Courtois took a light and walked before Amélie. The young girl,
as though prepared to start by the mail-coach at once on leaving
the prison, carried a travelling bag in her hand. Charlotte followed
her mistress.

"You will recognize the cell, Mademoiselle de Montrevel," said
Courtois. "It is the one in which you were confined with your
mother. The leader of these unfortunate young men, the Baron
Charles de Sainte-Hermine, asked me as a favor to put them in
cage No. 1. You know that's the name we give our cells. I did
not think I ought to refuse him that consolation, knowing how
the poor fellow loved you. Oh, don't be uneasy, Mademoiselle
Amélie, I will never breathe your secret. Then he questioned
me, asking which had been your mother's bed, and which yours. I
told him, and then he wanted his to stand just where yours did.
That wasn't hard, for the bed was not only in the same place,
but it was the very one you had used. So, since the poor fellow
entered your cell, he has spent nearly all his time lying on
your bed."

Amélie gave a sigh that resembled a groan. She felt--and it
was long since she had done so--a tear moisten her eyelids. Yes!
she was loved as she loved, and the lips of a disinterested
stranger gave her the proof of it. At this moment of eternal
separation this conviction shone like a diamond of light in its
setting of sorrow.

The doors opened one by one before Père Courtois. When they reached
the last one, Amélie laid her hand on the jailer's shoulder. She
thought she heard a chant. Listening attentively, she became
aware that it was a voice repeating verses.

But the voice was not Morgan's; it was unknown to her. Here is
what it said:

  I have bared all my heart to the God of the just,
    He has witnessed my penitent tears;
  He has stilled my remorse, He has armed me with trust,
    He has pitied and calmed all my fears.

  My enemies, scoffing, have said in their rage:
    "Let him die, be his mem'ry accursed!"
  Saith the merciful Father, my grief to assuage,
    "Their hatred hath now done its worst.

  "I have heard thy complaints, and I know that the ban
    Of remorse hath e'en brought thee so low;
  I can pity the soul of the penitent man
    That was weak in this valley of woe;

  "I will crown thy lost name with the just acclaim
    Of the slow-judging righteous years;
  Their pity and justice in time shall proclaim
    Thine honor; then layoff thy fears!"

  I bless thee, O God! who hast deigned to restore
    Mine honor that Thou hast made whole
  From shame and remorse; as I enter Death's door
    To Thee I commend my poor soul!

  To the banquet of life, an unfortunate guest,
    I came for a day, and I go--
  I die in my vigor; I sought not to rest
    In the grave where the weary lie low.

  Farewell to thee, earth! farewell, tender verdure
    Of woodland! Farewell, sunny shore!
  Green fields that I love, azure skies, smiling Nature,
    Farewell! I shall see thee no more.

  May thy beauty still gladden the friends that I love,
    Whom I long for--but stern fate denies;
  May they pass full of years, though I wait them above;
    May a last loving hand close their eyes.

The voice was silent; no doubt the last verse was finished. Amélie,
who would not interrupt the last meditations of the doomed men, and
who had recognized Gilbert's beautiful ode written on a hospital
bed the night before his death, now signed to the jailer to open
the door. Père Courtois, jailer as he was, seemed to share the
young girl's emotion, for he put the key in the lock and turned
it as softly as he could. The door opened.

Amélie saw at a glance the whole interior of the cell, and the
persons in it.

Valensolle was standing, leaning against the wall, and still
holding the book from which he had just read the lines that Amélie
had overheard. Jayat was seated near a table with his head resting
on his hands. Ribier was sitting on the table itself. Near him,
but further back, Sainte-Hermine, his eyes closed as if in sleep,
was lying on the bed. At sight of the young girl, whom they knew
to be Amélie, Ribier and Jayat rose. Morgan did not move; he
had heard nothing.

Amélie went directly to him, and, as if the love she felt for
him were sanctified by the nearness of death, she gave no heed
to the presence of his friends, but pressed her lips to his,
murmuring: "Awake, my Charles, it is I, Amélie. I have come to
keep my promise."

Morgan gave a cry of joy and clasped her in his arms.

"Monsieur Courtois," said Montbar, "you are a worthy man. Leave
those poor young people alone. It would be sacrilege to trouble
their last moments together on earth by our presence."

Père Courtois, without a word, opened the door of the adjoining
cell. Valensolle, Jayat and Ribier entered it, and the door was
closed upon them. Then, making a sign to Charlotte, Courtois
himself went away. The lovers were alone.

There are scenes that should not be described, words that must
not be repeated. God, who sees and hears them from his immortal
throne, alone knows what sombre joys, what bitter pleasures they
contain.

At the end of an hour the two young people heard the key turn
once more in the lock. They were sad but calm. The conviction
that their separation would not be for long gave them a sweet
serenity. The worthy jailer seemed more grieved and distressed
at his second appearance than at his first; but Morgan and Amélie
thanked him with a smile.

He went to the cell where the others were locked up and opened
it, murmuring to himself: "Faith! It would have been hard if
they couldn't have been alone together on their last night."

Valensolle, Jayat and Ribier returned. Amélie, with her left
arm wound around Morgan, held out her right hand to them. All
three, one after the other, kissed that cold, damp hand. Then
Morgan led her to the door.

"Au revoir!" he said.

"Soon!" she answered.

And then this parting at the gates of death was sealed by a long
kiss, followed by a groan so terrible that it seemed to rend
their hearts in twain.

The door closed again, the bolts and bars shot into their places.

"Well?" cried Valensolle, Jayat and Ribier with one accord.

"Here!" replied Morgan, emptying the travelling bag upon the table.

The three young men gave a cry of joy as they saw the shining
pistols and gleaming blades. It was all that they desired next to
liberty--the joy, the dolorous precious joy of knowing themselves
masters of their own lives, and, if need be, that of others.

During this time the jailer led Amélie to the street. When they
reached it he hesitated a moment, then he touched Amélie's arm,
saying as he did so: "Mademoiselle de Montrevel, forgive me for
causing you so much pain, but it is useless for you to go to
Paris."

"Because the appeal has been rejected and the execution takes
place to-morrow, I suppose you mean," said Amélie.

The jailer in his astonishment stepped back a pace.

"I knew it, my friend," said Amélie. Then turning to Charlotte, she
said: "Take me to the nearest church and come for me to-morrow after
all is over."

The nearest church was not far off. It was that of Sainte-Claire.
For the last three months it had been opened for public worship
under the decree of the First Consul. As it was now nearly midnight,
the doors were closed; but Charlotte knew where the sexton lived
and she went to wake him. Amélie waited, leaning against the walls
as motionless as the marble figures that adorned its frontal.

The sexton arrived at the end of half an hour. During that time the
girl had seen a dreadful sight. Three men had passed her, dragging
a cart, which she saw by the light of the moon was painted red.
Within this cart she perceived shapeless objects, long planks and
singular ladders, all painted the same color. They were dragging
it toward the bastion Montrevel, the place used for the executions.
Amélie divined what it was, and, with a cry, she fell upon her
knees.

At that cry the men in black turned round. They fancied for a
moment that one of the sculptured figures of the porch had descended
from its niche and was kneeling there. The one who seemed to be
the leader stepped close to the young girl.

"Don't come near me!" she cried. "Don't come near me!"

The man returned humbly to his place and continued on his way.
The cart disappeared round the corner of the Rue des Prisons; but
the noise of its wheels still sounded on the stones and echoed
in the girl's heart.

When the sacristan and Charlotte returned they found the young
girl on her knees. The man raised some objections against opening
the church at that hour of the night; but a piece of gold and
Mademoiselle de Montrevel's name dispelled his scruples. A second
gold piece decided him to light a little chapel. It was the one
in which Amélie had made her first communion. There, kneeling
before the altar, she implored them to leave her alone.

Toward three in the morning she saw the colored window above the
altar of the Virgin begin to lighten. It looked to the east, so
that the first ray of light came direct to her eyes as a messenger
from God.

Little by little the town awoke. To Amélie the noise seemed louder
than ever before. Soon the vaulted ceiling of the church shook
with the tramp of a troop of horsemen. This troop was on its
way to the prison.

A little before nine the young girl heard a great noise, and it
seemed to her that the whole town must be rushing in the same
direction. She strove to lose herself in prayer, that she might
not hear these different sounds that spoke to her in an unknown
language of which her anguish told her she understood every word.

In truth, a terrible thing was happening at the prison. It was
no wonder that the whole town had rushed thither.

At nine o'clock Père Courtois entered the jail to tell the prisoners
at one and the same time that their appeal had been rejected and
that they must prepare for immediate death. He found the four
prisoners armed to the teeth.

The jailer, taken unawares, was pulled into the cell and the
door locked behind him. Then the young men, without any defence
on his part, so astonished was he, seized his keys, and passing
through the door opposite to the one by which he had entered
they locked it on him. Leaving him in their cell, they found
themselves in the adjoining one, in which he had placed three
of them during Amélie's interview with Morgan.

One of the keys on the jailer's bunch opened the other door of
this cell, and that door led to the inner courtyard of the prison.
This courtyard was closed by three massive doors, all of which
led to a sort of lobby, opening upon the porter's lodge, which
in turn adjoined the law-courts. From this lodge fifteen steps
led down into a vast courtyard closed by an iron gate and railing.
Usually this gate was only locked at night. If it should happen to
be open on this occasion it would offer a possibility of escape.

Morgan found the key of the prisoners' court, opened the door,
and rushed with his companions to the porter's lodge and to the
portico, from which the fifteen steps led down into the courtyard.
From there the three young men could see that all hope was lost.

The iron gate was closed, and eighty men, dragoons and gendarmes,
were drawn up in front of it.

When the four prisoners, free and armed to the teeth, sprang
from the porter's lodge to the portico, a great cry, a cry of
astonishment and terror, burst from the crowd in the street beyond
the railing.

Their aspect was formidable, indeed; for to preserve the freedom
of their movements, perhaps to hide the shedding of blood, which
would have shown so quickly on their white linen, they were naked
to the waist. A handkerchief knotted around their middle bristled
with weapons.

A glance sufficed to show them that they were indeed masters of
their own lives, but not of their liberty. Amid the clamoring of
the crowd and the clanking of the sabres, as they were drawn from
their scabbards, the young men paused an instant and conferred
together. Then Montbar, after shaking hands with his companions,
walked down the fifteen steps and advanced to the gate.

When he was within four yards of the gate he turned, with a last
glance at his comrades, bowed graciously to the now silent mob,
and said to the soldiers: "Very well, gentlemen of the gendarmerie!
Very well, dragoons!"

Then, placing the muzzle of his pistol to his mouth, he blew out
his brains.

Confused and frantic cries followed the explosion, but ceased
almost immediately as Valensolle came down the steps, holding in
his hand a dagger with a straight and pointed blade. His pistols,
which he did not seem inclined to use, were still in his belt.

He advanced to a sort of shed supported on three pillars, stopped
at the first pillar, rested the hilt of his dagger upon it, and,
with a last salutation to his friends, clasped the column with
one arm till the blade had disappeared in his breast. For an
instant he remained standing, then a mortal pallor overspread
his face, his arm loosened its hold, and he fell to the ground,
stone-dead.

The crowd was mute, paralyzed with horror.

It was now Ribier's turn. He advanced to the gate, and, once
there, aimed the two pistols he held at the gendarmes. He did
not fire, but the gendarmes did. Three or four shots were heard,
and Ribier fell, pierced by two balls.

Admiration seized upon the spectators at sight of these successive
catastrophes. They saw that the young men were willing to die,
but to die with honor, and as they willed, and also with the
grace of the gladiators of antiquity. Silence therefore reigned
when Morgan, now left alone, came smiling down the steps of the
portico and held up his hand in sign that he wished to speak.
Besides, what more could it want--this eager mob; watching for
blood?

A greater sight had been given to it than it came to see. Four
dead men had been promised to it; four heads were to be cut off;
but here was variety in death, unexpected, picturesque. It was
natural, therefore, that the crowd should keep silence when Morgan
was seen to advance.

He held neither pistols nor daggers in his hands; they were in
his belt. He passed the body of Valensolle, and placed himself
between those of Jayat and Ribier.

"Gentlemen," said he, "let us negotiate."

The hush that followed was so great that those present seemed
scarcely to breathe. Morgan said: "There lies a man who has blown
out his brains [he pointed to Jayat]; here lies one who stabbed
himself [he designated Valensolle]; a third who has been shot
[he indicated Ribier]; you want to see the fourth guillotined.
I understand that."

A dreadful shudder passed through the crowd.

"Well," continued Morgan, "I am willing to give you that
satisfaction. I am ready, but I desire to go to the scaffold in
my own way. No one shall touch me; if any one does come near me
I shall blow out his brains--except that gentleman," continued
Morgan, pointing to the executioner. "This is his affair and
mine only."

The crowd apparently thought this request reasonable, for from
all sides came the cry, "Yes, yes, yes."

The officer saw that the quickest way to end the matter was to
yield to Morgan's demand.

"Will you promise me," he asked, "that if your hands and feet
are not bound you will not try to escape?"

"I give my word of honor," replied Morgan.

"Then," said the officer; "stand aside, and let us take up the
bodies of your comrades."

"That is but right," said Morgan, and he turned aside to a wall
about ten paces distant and leaned against it.

The gate opened. Three men dressed in black entered the courtyard
and picked up the bodies one after the other. Ribier was not
quite dead; he opened his eyes and seemed to look for Morgan.

"Here I am," said the latter. "Rest easy, dear friend, I follow."

Ribier closed his eyes without uttering a word.

When the three bodies had been removed, the officer of the
gendarmerie addressed Morgan.

"Are you ready, sir?" he asked.

"Yes," replied Morgan, bowing with exquisite politeness.

"Then come."

"I come."

And he took his place between a platoon of gendarmerie and a
detachment of dragoons.

"Will you mount the cart, sir, or go on foot?" asked the captain.

"On foot, on foot, sir. I am anxious that all shall see it is
my pleasure to be guillotined, and that I am not afraid."

The sinister procession crossed the Place des Lisses and skirted
the walls of the Hôtel Montbazon. The cart bearing the three
bodies came first, then the dragoons, then Morgan walking alone
in a clear space of some ten feet before and behind him, then
the gendarmes. At the end of the wall they turned to the left.

Suddenly, through an opening that existed at that time between
the wall and the market-place, Morgan saw the scaffold raising
its two posts to heaven like two bloody arms.

"Faugh!" he exclaimed, "I have never seen a guillotine, and I
had no idea it was so ugly."

Then, without further remark, he drew his dagger and plunged it
into his breast up to the hilt.

The captain of the gendarmerie saw the movement without being in
time to prevent it. He spurred his horse toward Morgan, who, to his
own amazement and that of every one else, remained standing. But
Morgan, drawing a pistol from his belt and cocking it, exclaimed:
"Stop! It was agreed that no one should touch me. I shall die
alone, or three of us will die together."

The captain reined back his horse.

"Forward!" said Morgan.

They reached the foot of the guillotine. Morgan drew out his
dagger and struck again as deeply as before. A cry of rage rather
than pain escaped him.

"My soul must be riveted to my body," he said.

Then, as the assistants wished to help him mount the scaffold
on which the executioner was awaiting him, he cried out: "No,
I say again, let no one touch me."

Then he mounted the three steps without staggering.

When he reached the platform, he drew out the dagger again and
struck himself a third time. Then a frightful laugh burst from
his lips; flinging the dagger, which he had wrenched from the
third ineffectual wound, at the feet of the executioner, he
exclaimed: "By my faith! I have done enough. It is your turn;
do it if you can."

A minute later the head of the intrepid young man fell upon the
scaffold, and by a phenomenon of that unconquerable vitality
which he possessed it rebounded and rolled forward beyond the
timbers of the guillotine.

Go to Bourg, as I did, and they will tell you that, as the head
rolled forward, it was heard to utter the name of Amélie.

The dead bodies were guillotined after the living one; so that
the spectators, instead of losing anything by the events we have
just related, enjoyed a double spectacle.




CHAPTER LIV

THE CONFESSION

Three days after the events we have just recited, a carriage
covered with dust and drawn by two horses white with foam stopped
about seven of the evening before the gate of the Château des
Noires-Fontaines. To the great astonishment of the person who
was in such haste to arrive, the gates were open, a crowd of
peasants filled the courtyard, and men and women were kneeling
on the portico. Then, his sense of hearing being rendered more
acute by astonishment at what he had seen, he fancied he heard
the ringing of a bell.

He opened the door of the chaise, sprang out, crossed the courtyard
rapidly, went up the portico, and found the stairway leading to
the first floor filled with people.

Up the stairs he ran as he had up the portico, and heard what
seemed to him a murmured prayer from his sister's bedroom. He
went to the room. The door was open. Madame de Montrevel and
little Edouard were kneeling beside Amélie's pillow; Charlotte,
Michel, and his son Jacques were close at hand. The curate of
Sain