 three, and Maulfry's at four days. Maulfry's was
actually rather less, as will appear.

If all this prove dull to the reader, I can only tell him that he had
better know his way about Morgraunt than lose it, as I have very often
done in the course of my hot-head excursions. There are so many
trackless regions in it, so many great lakes of green with never an
island of a name, that to me, at least, it is salvation to have solid
verifiable spots upon which to put a finger and say--"Here is
Waisford, here Tortsentier, here is the great river Wan, here by the
grace of God and the Countess of Hauterive is Saint Giles of Holy
Thorn." Of course to Isoult it was different. She had been a forester
all her life. To her there were names (and names of dread) not to be
known of any map. Deerleap, One Ash, the Wolves' Valley, the Place of
the Withered Elm, the Charcoal-Burners', the Mossy Christ, the Birch-
grove, the Brook under the Brow--and a hundred more. She steered by
these, with all foresters. What she did not remember, or did not know,
was that Maulfry had also lived in Morgraunt and knew the ways by
heart. Still, she had a better mount than the Lady of Tortsentier, and
Love for a link-boy.

However fast she rode for her mark, her way seemed long enough as she
battled through that shadowed land, forded brooks, stole by the edge
of wastes or swamps, crossed open rides in fear what either vista
might set bare, climbed imperceptibly higher and higher towards the
spikes of Hauterive, upon whose woody bluffs stands High March. Not
upon one beast could she have done what she did; one took her a day
and a night going at the pace she exacted. She knew by her instincts
where the herds of ponies ran. It was easy to catch and halter any one
she chose; no forest beast went in fear of her who had the wild-wood
savour in her hair--but it meant more contriving and another stretch
for her tense brain. For herself, she hardly dared stay at all.
Prosper's breast under a dagger! If she had stayed she would not have
slept. The fever and the fever only kept her up; for a slim and tender
girl she went through incredible fatigues. But while the fever lasted
so did she, alert, wise, discreet, incessantly active. Part of her
journey--for the half of one day--she actually had Maulfry in full
view; saw her riding easily on her great white Fleming, saw the glint
of the golden armour, and Vincent ambling behind her on his cob,
catching at the leaves as he went, for lack of something better. She
was never made out by them,--at a time like this her wits were finer
than her enemy's,--so she was able to learn how much time she had to
spare. That night she slept for three hours. As for her food, we know
that she could supply herself with that; and when the deer failed her,
she scrupled nothing (she so abject with whom she loved!) to demand it
of whomsoever she happened to meet. She grew as bold as a winter
robin. One evening she sat by a gipsy fire with as shrewd a set of
cut-throats as you would wish to hang. She never turned a hair.
Another night she fell in with some shaggy drovers leading cattle from
March into Waisford, and shared the cloak and pillow of one of them
without a quiver. Having dozed and started half-a-dozen times in a
couple of hours, she got up without disturbing her bed-fellow and took
to the woods again. So she came to her last day, when she looked to
see the High March towers and what they held.

On that day at noon, as she sat resting near a four-went-way, she
heard the tramp of horses, the clatter of arms. She hid herself, just
in time, in a thicket of wild rose, and waited to see what was
threatening. It proved to be a company of soldiers--she counted fifty,
but there were more--well armed with spears, whose banneroles were
black and white. They rode at a trot to the crossways; there one cried
halt. They were within ten yards of her, but happily there were no
dogs. Then she heard another horse--that of the captain, as she
guessed. She saw him come round the bend of the ride, a burly man,
black upon a black horse. There were white feathers in his helmet; on
his shield three white wicket-gates. Galors! At this moment her heart
did not fail her. It scarcely beat faster. She was able to listen at
her ease.

They debated of ways; Galors seemed in doubt, and vexed at doubting.
One of them pointed the road to High March.

"No, by the Crucified," said Galors, "that is no road for me just yet,
who once showed a shaven crown upon it. I leave High March to the
Golden Knight for the hour. He shall make my way straight, bless him
for a John Baptist. We are for Wanmeeting, my friends. Wanmeeting,
then Goltres."

Said another--"Sir, if that road lead to High March, we must go
straight forward to fetch at Wanmeeting."

So they disputed at large. Isoult made out that Galors had raised a
company of outlaws (no hard job in Morgraunt at any time, and raised
for her ravishment, if she had known it), and was bound for Goltres,
where there was a castle, and a lord of it named Spiridion. She could
find out little more. Sometimes they spoke of Hauterive town and a
castle there, sometimes of Wanmeeting and a high bailiff; but Goltres
seemed most in Galors' mind.

Finally they took the road to Wanmeeting. Isoult waited till the sound
of the horses died in the swishing of trees, and then sped forward on
her feet towards her lord. She knew she was near by, and would not
risk time or discovery by catching her pony. By four in the afternoon
she had her first view of the great castle rising stately out of the
black pines and bright green of the spring foliage, warm grey in the
full light of the sun, and solid as the rock it was of. In another
hour she was demanding of the porter at the outer bailey Messire
Prosper le Gai, in the name of his servant Roy.




CHAPTER XVII

ROY


That clear and mild evening, fluted as April by a thrush in the
lilacs, Prosper and the Countess walked together on the terrace. A
guard or two, pike in hand, lounged by the balustrade; the deer-hound,
with his muzzle between his paws, twitched his ears or woke to snap at
a fly: it seemed as if the earth, sure of the sun at last, left her
conning tower with a happy sigh. It turned the Countess to a tender
mood, where she suffered herself to be played upon by the season--
_L'ora del tempo e la dolce stagione._ The spring whimpered in
her blood. Prosper felt her sighing as she leaned on his arm, and made
stress to amuse her, for sighs always seemed to him unhealthy. He set
himself to be humorous, sang, chattered, told anecdotes, and succeeded
in infecting himself first and the lady afterwards. She laughed in
spite of herself, then with a good will. They both laughed together,
so that the guards nudged each other. One prophesied a match of it.

"And no bad thing for High March if it were so," said the other, "and
we with a man at the top. I never knew a greater-hearted lord. He is
voiced like a peal of bells in a frolic."

"He's a trumpet in a charge home."

"He's first in."

"Fights like a demon."

"Snuffs blood before 'tis out of the skin."

"Ah, a great gentleman!"

"What would his age be?"

"Five-and-twenty, not an ounce more. So ho! What's this on the road?"

The other man looked up, both looked together. The porter came on to
the terrace, followed by a dark youth who walked with a limp.

"A boy to speak with Messire," said the porter, and left his convoy.

"Name and business?" asked one of the guards.

"Roy, the page from Starning, to speak with my lord."

"Wait you there, Roy. I will ask for you."

The guard went off whistling. Isoult fixed long looks again on the two
at the end of the terrace. She was nearly done,

"You have made a push for it, my shaver," said the second guard, after
a study from head to toe.

"My business pushed me."

"Ah, trouble in the forest, eh? Are the roads clear?"

"I met with a company."

"How many pikes?"

"Nearer sixty than fifty."

"Where bound?"

"Goltres, I understood."

"Who led?"

"A black knight."

"Ah. Were you mounted, my lad?"

"Not then. I was in hiding."

"Ah. You know what you're about, it seems."

"Yes," said Isoult.

The messenger returned.

"You are to go and speak to Messire," he said.

Isoult saw Prosper coming towards her. Her heart's trouble began; her
knees knocked together, she swayed a little as she walked.

"That boy's had as much as he can stand," said the guard who had
questioned.

"What, a'ready?" laughed his mate.

"Not beer, you fool--travel. He's extended--he will hardly reach
another yard."

The fact was wholly, the reasoning partly true. Doubt had lain as
dregs at the bottom of the draught which had fed her. Now she was at
the lees--brought so low that she had to depend upon the worth of her
news for assurance of a hearing. True, she had asked no more, nor
looked for it--but you cannot tame hopes. A dry patch in her throat
burned like fire, but she fought her way. He was close: she could see
the keen light in his eyes. Alas! alas! he looked for Roy. A thick
tide of despair came surging over her, closing in, beating at her
temples for entrance. She lost her sight, fluttered a very rag in the
wind, held out her hands for a balance. Prosper saw her feeling about
like a blind man. He quickened.

"Danger! danger!" she breathed, and fell at his feet.

He picked her up as if she had been a baby and carried her into the
house. As he passed the guards one of them came forward to help.

"The lad's been pushed beyond his strength, my lord," the man
ventured.

"So I see," said Prosper, and shook him off. The business must be got
through alone.

"A great gentleman," said the man to his mate. "But he fags his
servants."

"Bless you, Jack, they like it!" the other assured him, with a laugh
at the weakness of his own kind.

Wine on her lips and brows brought her to, but it was a ghost of a boy
that lay on the bed and held fixed upon Prosper a pair of haunted
eyes. But Prosper stayed at his post. He was very tender to weak
things. Here in all conscience was a weak thing! That look of hers,
which never wavered for a second, frightened him. He thought she was
going to die; reflected that death was not safe without a priest: the
thought of death suggested his dream, the dream his old curiosity to
see again that which had so stirred him asleep. Well, here she was
before him--part of her at least; for her soul, which he had helped
her to win, was fighting to escape. The sounds of the duel, the
shuddering reluctance of the indrawn breath, the moan that told of its
enlargement, these things, and the motionless open eyes which seemed
to say, Look! Body and soul are fighting, and we can only watch!
turned him helpless, as we all are in actual audience of death. He
sat, therefore, waiting the issue; and if he had any thought at all it
was, "God, she was mine once, and now I have let her go!" For we do
not pity the dying or dead; but ourselves we pity, who suffer longer
and more than they.

Presently Isoult fetched a long sigh, and moved a hand ever so
slightly. Prosper took it, leaning over her.

"Isoult," he said, "child, do you not know me?"

He affected more roughness than he felt, as a man's way is. He will
always dictate rather than ask. At his words a shiny veil seemed to
withdraw from her eyes, whereby he learned that she had heard him. He
put the cup to her lips again. Some was spilt, but some was swallowed.

She motioned an answer to his question. "Yes, lord," he made of it.

"Isoult, I ought to be angry with you," said he; and she looked
untroubled at him, too far gone to heed the blame of lords or men.

"No, no," her lips framed as she closed her eyes.

She fell asleep holding his hand, and he watched by the bed till
midnight, warning off with a lifted finger any who came from the
Countess for news of him. Hard thinking sped the vigil: he wondered
what could have happened to bring her so near her death or ever he
could have word of her. Galors, he was pretty sure, had got to work
again; it was good odds that he had been running in couple with the
lady of the dead knight. Their connection was proved to his mind. Then
Isoult, having escaped by some chance, had naturally headed straight
for him--very naturally, very properly. It was his due: he would fight
for her; she was his wife. Ah, Heaven, but she was more than that!
There were ties, there were ties now. What more precisely she was he
could not say; but more, oh, certainly more. Weak things moved him
always: here was a weak enough thing, white and shadowy in a bed! He
felt the stirring of her hand in his, like a little mouse. Poor
frightened creature, flying from all the forest eyes to drop at his
feet at last! By God, he would split Galors this time. And as for the
woman--pooh, give her a branding and let her go.

At midnight Isoult woke up with a little cry. Her first words were as
before--"Danger! danger!"

"You are safe with me, dear," said Prosper.

"Danger to you, my lord!"

"To me, my child? Who can be dangerous to me?"

"Maulfry and Galors. Maulfry most of all."

"Maulfry? Maulfry?" he echoed. Ah, the lady!

She told him everything that had passed from the hour she left
Gracedieu, and even Prosper could not but see that she had had one
thought throughout and one stay. Maulfry's smiling treachery had
shocked her to the soul; but the very shock had only quickened her
alarms about his safety. He could not avoid the reflection that this
startled creature loved him. Prosper would have been more grateful
than he was, and more shrewdly touched, had he not also felt
astonishment (tinged, I think, with scorn) that any one should be
anxious about his conduct of the war. Women's ways! As if a man-at-
arms did not live in danger; and for danger, pardieu. He did not show
any of this, nor did he leave the girl's hand. Besides, the affair was
very interesting. So he heard her to the end, adding nothing by way of
comment beyond an occasional "Good child," or "Brave girl," or the
wine cup to her dry lips. Seeing too how deeply her alarms had sunk
into her, he had tact enough not to let her guess his intent, which
very nakedly was to follow up Galors towards Goltres or Wanmeeting.
Upon this matter he contented himself with asking her one question--
whether she had ever heard speak of a knight called Salomon de Born?
The answer made him start. Isoult shook her head.

"I never heard of him, my lord; but I know that Dom Galors' name is De
Born."

"Hum," said Prosper; "he has taken all he can get, it appears. And
does he still carry the shield and arms he had before?"

She told him, yes; and that all his company carried his colours, black
and white, upon their banneroles and the trappings of their horses.

"In fact our monk sets up for a lord--Messire Galors de Born?"

"So he is named among his men, lord," said Isoult.

"But wait a minute. Do you know the man's name before he entered
religion?"

"It was De Born, my lord, as I understood. But I have heard him also
called Born."

Prosper thought again, shook his head, made nothing of it, and so kept
it for his need.

Next day before dinner he came into the hall leading a black-haired
boy by the hand. He went up to the Countess's chair between the ranked
assembly.

"My lady Countess," says he, "suffer my page Roy to kiss your hand. He
loves me, and I him, if for no better reason than that he does me so
much credit. He alone in my father's house has dared it, I may tell
you. Take him in then for my sake, madam. The master's master should
be the servant's master."

The Countess smiled.

"He is certainly welcome on this showing," she said, "as well as on
others. That must be a good servant for whom his master forsakes not
only his friends but his supper." Then turning to Isoult, "Well, Roy,"
she asked, "and art thou whole again?"

"Yes, please my lady," said Isoult.

"Then thou shalt kiss my hand for thy master's sake!" returned the
Countess, after looking keenly at the girl.

Isoult knelt and kissed the white hand. The Countess beckoned to one
of her pages.

"Go now, Roy, with Balthasar," said she. "He will show thee whatever
is needful to be known. Afterwards thou shalt come into hall and serve
at thy lord's chair. And so long as he is here thou shalt serve him,
and sleep at his chamber door. I am sure that thou art faithful and
worthy of so much at my hands. And now, Prosper," she turned to say,
as if that business were happily done, "you shall finish your story of
the Princess of Tunis and the Neapolitan barber, which you broke off
so abruptly yestereven. Then we will go to supper."

The audience was over; Prosper received his wife's reverence with a
blush, sighed as he saw her back out of the presence, and sighed still
more as he turned to his task of entertaining the great lady his
hostess.

Isoult was led away by Balthasar into the pages' quarters, and escaped
thence with an examination which was not so searching as it might have
been had she not passed for squire to such a redoubtable smiter. She
was not long finding out that Prosper was the god of all the youth in
High March. His respect won her respect, though it could win him no
more from her. She heard their glowing reports, indeed, with a certain
scorn--to think that they should inform her of him, forsooth! From the
buttery she was taken to run the gauntlet of the women in the
servants' hall. Here the fact that she made a very comely boy--a boy
agile, dark-eyed, and grave, who looked to have something in reserve--
worked her turn where Prosper's prowess might have failed her. The
women found her frugality of speech piquant; it laid down for her the
lines of a reputation for experienced gallantry--the sort which asks a
little wearily, Is this worth my while? It seemed to them that in
matters of love Roy might be hard to please. This caused a stir in one
or two bosoms. A certain Melot, a black-eyed girl, plump, and an easy
giggler, avowed in strict confidence to her room-fellow that night,
that her fate had been told her by a Bohemian--a slight and dark-eyed
youth was to be her undoing. You will readily understand that this was
duly reported by the room-fellow to Balthasar, and by him to Isoult,
following the etiquette observed in such matters. Isoult frowned, said
little of it, and thought less.

With the other pages she waited behind her master's chair at supper.
He still sat at the Countess's right hand as the principal guest
(evidently) in her esteem, if not in degree. Isoult had prepared
herself for what was to come as best she could. She had expounded, as
you have been told, her simple love-lore to Alice of the Hermitage;
but it is doubtful if she had known how much like a cow beset by flies
in a dry pasture a lover may be made. Every little familiar gesture
was a prick. Their talk of things which had happened to them
counselled her to despair. When the Countess leaned to Prosper's chair
she measured how long this could be borne; but when by chance her hand
touched on his arm, to rest there for a moment, Isoult was as near
jealousy as a girl, in the main logical by instinct and humble by
conviction, could ever be. Then came doubt, and brought fear to drag
her last hand from the rock and let her fall. Fear came stealthily to
her, like a lurking foe, out of the Countess's unconscious eyes.
Isoult had nothing to hope for that she had not already: she knew that
now she was blessed beyond all women born; she loved, she was near her
beloved; but her heart was crying out at the cold and the dark. There
was love in the Countess's looks; Isoult could not doubt it. And
Prosper did not take it amiss. Here it was that Isoult was blind, for
Prosper had no notions whatever about the Countess's looks.

He was in very high spirits that supper. He liked Isoult to be by him
again, liked it for her sake as well as for the sake of the escapade.
He had watched her a good deal during the day, and found her worth
perusal. She had picked up her good looks again, went bravely dressed
in his livery of white and green, with his hooded falcon across her
bosom and embroidered slantwise upon the fold of her doublet. Thus she
made a very handsome page. She was different though. He thought that
there was now about her an allure, a grave richness, a reticence of
charm, an air of discretion which he must always have liked without
knowing that he liked it. Yet he had never noticed it before. The
child was almost a young woman, seemed taller and more filled out. No
doubt this was true, and no doubt it braved her for the carrying of
her boy's garnish, otherwise a risky fardel for a young woman. He was
pleased with her, and with himself for being pleased. So he was very
merry, ate well, drank as the drink came, and every time Isoult
brought him the cup he looked at her trying to win an answer. Since no
answer was to be had he was forced to be satisfied with looking. Once
or twice in serving him their hands touched. This also pleased him,
but he was shocked to find this rosy girl with the shining eyes had
hands as cold as ice. And he so well disposed to her! And she his
wife! He pursued his researches in this sort at the cost of more
stoups of wine than were needful or his rule. He grew enthusiastic
over it, and laid up a fine store of penalties for future settlement.
The enthusiast must neglect something; Prosper, being engrossed with
his page and his wine, neglected the Countess. This lady, after
tapping with her foot in her chamber till the sound maddened her,
withdrew early. Immediately she had gone Prosper announced great
fatigue. He sent for his page and a torch. Isoult escaped from the
noisy herd round the buttery fire, lit her torch at a cresset,
disregarded Melot languishing in a dark corner, and met her lord in
mid hall.

"Take me to bed, Roy," said he, looking at her strangely.

Isoult led the way; he followed her close.

She went into the dark room with her torch while Prosper stood in the
doorway. She lighted the candles: he could see how deliberately she
did it, without waver or tremor. His own heart thumping at such a
rate, it was astounding to him to watch. Then she beat out the torch
on the hearth, and waited. Three strides brought him into the middle
of the room, but the look of her stopped him there. She was rather
pale, very grave, looked taller than her height; her eyes seemed like
twin lakes of dark water, unruffled and unwinking. Neither of them
spoke, though there was fine disorder in two hearts, and one was
crying inwardly to Love and the Virgin. Isoult spoke first in a very
low voice.

"Lord, now let me go," she said.

The next minute he had her in his arms.

She had been prepared for this, and now suffered what she must,
lifeless and pleasureless, with a dull pain in her heart. This was the
stabbing pain (as with a muffled knife) with which true love maims
itself in its own defence. His aim for her lips was parried; as well
he might have embraced a dead woman. Soon his passion burned itself
out for lack of fuel; he set her down and looked moodily at her,
panting.

"Are you my wife? By the saints, are you not my wife? Why are you
here?"

"To serve my lord."

"Serve! serve! And is this the service you do me? Are you not my
wife?"

"I am she, lord. I am what you made me. I serve as you taught."

"Does a wife not owe obedience? Hath a lord--hath a husband no right
to that?"

"Love is a great lord--"

"By Heaven, do I not love you?"

He could have sworn he did; but Isoult knew better.

"Yesterday my lord loved me not; to-morrow he will not love me. I am
his servant--his page."

"Isoult, you know that you are my wife."

"I am your servant, lord," said Isoult. "Listen."

As he stood hiding his face in his hand, this tall and lordly youth,
Isoult took up her parable, but so low you could hardly hear it.

"Lord," she said, "when you wed me in the cottage it was for honour
and to save my body from hanging. And when you had saved my body you
showed me soul's salvation, and taught me how to pray, saying, Deal
justly, live cleanly, breathe sweet breath. And when you went away
from Gracedieu saying you would come again, I waited for you there,
doing all that you had taught me. So I did when I was made a prisoner
in the dark tower, and so I would do now that I am blest with sight of
you and service. But when I cried for you at Gracedieu you came not,
and when I came to warn you of your peril you hoped for Roy, and
seeing me your looks fell. And I knew this must be so, and would have
gone back to Gracedieu had you told me. For then I should still have
been rich with what you had given me once. Now even I will go, asking
but one thing of you for a mercy, that you do not send me away
beggared of what you gave me before."

"And what did I give you, Isoult?" he whispered.

"'Twas your honour to keep, my lord," said the girl.

He had been looking at her long before she made an end, but not before
she had gathered strength from her theme. When he did look he saw that
her eyes were large and dark; honesty and clear courage burned
steadily there; the candles reflected in them showed no flickering.
She had her hands crossed over her bosom as if to hold a treasure
close: her treasures were her ring and her faithful heart. He knew now
that he could not gain her for this turn, wife or no wife; in this
great mood of hers she would have killed herself sooner than let him
touch her; and when she had ended her say he knew that she had spoken
the truth, a truth which put him to shame. Like a spoilt boy rather
than a rogue he began to plead, nevertheless. He went on his knees,
unbound her two hands and held them, trying to win his way by
protestations of love and desire. The words, emptied of all fact by
this time (for the boy was honest enough), rang hollow. She looked
down at him sadly, but very gently, denying him against all her love.
The fool went on, set on his own way. At last she said--

"Lord, such love as thou hast for me Galors hath also. And shall I let
my looks undo me with thee, and thee with me? I will follow thee as a
servant, and never leave thee without it be thy will. I beseech of
thee deface not thine own image which I carry here. Now let me go."

She touched herself upon the breast. This was how she drove the evil
spirit out of him. He got up from his knees and thanked her gruffly.
His words came curt and sharp, with the old order in the tone of them;
but she knew that he was really ordering himself. She held out her
hand, rather shyly--for, the battle won, the conquered had resumed
command--he took and kissed it. She turned to go. The evil spirit
within him lifted up a bruised head.

"By God!" cried he, "you shall lie in the bed and I at the door."

And so it was, and so remained, while High March held the pair of
them. By which it will appear that the evil spirit was disposed in
pious uses.




CHAPTER XVIII

BOY'S LOVE


Maulfry did not appear at High March either the next day, or the next.
In fact, a week passed without any sign from her, which sufficed
Isoult to avoid the tedious attentions of the maids, and to attract
those of the Countess of Hauterive. This great lady had been prepared
to be gracious to the page for the sake of the master. She had not
expected the master to show his appreciation of her act by leaving her
alone. The two of them were very much together; Prosper was beginning
to court his wife. The Countess grew frankly jealous of Roy; and the
more she felt herself slipping in her own esteem, the more irritated
with the boy did she grow. She had long admitted to herself that
Prosper pleased her as no man had ever done, since Fulk de Bréauté was
stabbed on the heath. In pursuance of this she had waived the ten
years of age between herself and the youth. It seemed the prerogative
of her rank. If she thought him old enough, he was old enough,
pardieu. If she went further, as she was prepared to do; if she said,
"You are old enough, Prosper, for my throne. Come!" and he did not
come, she had a sense that there was _lèse majesté_ lurking where
there should only be an aching heart. The fact was, that she began to
hate Roy very heartily; it would not have been long before she took
steps to be rid of him, had not fortune saved her the trouble, as must
now be related. Isoult, it is to be owned, saw nothing of all this.
Having once settled herself on the old footing with her lord and
master, wherein, if there was nothing to gain, there was also nothing
to lose, the humble soul set to work to forget her late rebellion, and
to be as happy as the shadow of Maulfry and the uncompromising shifts
of the enamoured Melot would allow. As for Prosper's courting, it
shall be at once admitted that she discerned it as little as the
Countess's malevolent eye. He hectored her rather more, expected more
of her, and conversed with her less often and less cheerfully than had
been his wont. It is probable that he was really courting his wounded
susceptibilities.

About a week after the adventure of the bed-chamber, as she was
waiting in the hall with the crowd of lacqueys and retainers, some one
caught her by the arm. She turned and saw Vincent.

He was hot, excited, and dusty, but very much her servant, poor lad.

"Dame Maulfry is here," he whispered her.

"Where?"

"You will see her soon. She is tricked in the figure of a dancing
woman, an Egyptian. She will come telling fortunes and shameful tales.
And she means mischief, but not to you."

"Ah! How do you know that, Vincent?"

"She talked very often to herself when we were in the forest. We have
been to many places--Wanmeeting, Waisford. There is no doubt at all.
`Kill the buck and you have the doe': she said it over and over again.
We have seen the sick man. He is quite well now, and very strong. She
is to kill your lord and take you alive. She seems to hate him. I
can't tell you why. Which is your lord of all those on the dais?"

"Hush. There he sits on the right hand of the Countess. He is talking
to her now. Look, she is laughing."

"Oh, he is tall. He looks light and fierce, like a leopard. How high
he carries his head! As if we were of another world."

"So we are," said Isoult.

Vincent sighed and went on with his story. "I have run away from
Maulfry. She left me to wait for her at the end of the avenue, with
three horses, just as I was at Gracedieu--do you remember? But I could
never do that again. Now I must hide somewhere."

"Come with me. I will hide you."

She took him to the buttery and gave him over to the cook-maids. She
told Melot that this was a fellow of hers who must be tended at all
costs. Melot made haste to obey, sighing like a gale of wind. Isoult
had rather asked any other, but time pressed. She hurried back to the
hall to take her proper place at table, and going thither, made sure
that her dagger slid easily in and out. She was highly excited, but
not with fear--elated rather.

Supper passed safely over. The Countess withdrew to the gallery, and
Prosper followed her as his duty bound him. He was still thoughtful
and subdued, but with a passing flash now and again of his old
authority, which served to make a blacker sky for the love-sick lady.
The sounds of music came gratefully to Isoult; for once she was glad
to be rid of him. She sped back to Vincent, enormously relieved that
the field of battle was to be narrowed. Maulfry would have been
awkward in the open; she knew she could hold her in the passages.
There were two things to be prevented, observe. The knife must not
discover Prosper, nor Maulfry Isoult. The latter was almost as
important on Prosper's account as the former. Isoult knew that. She
knew also that it must be risked of the two; but in the passages she
could deal with it.

Vincent was sitting by the fire between Melot and Jocosa, another of
the maids. Melot bit her lip, and edged away from him as Isoult came
in.

"Girls," said the redoubtable Roy, with scant ceremony, "I have to
speak to my mate."

Melot bounced out of the room. Jocosa loitered about, hoping for a
frolic. A chance look at Master Roy seemed to convince her that she
too had better go.

As soon as they were alone Isoult made haste to eat and drink. Between
the mouthfuls she said--

"She has not come yet."

"No," said Vincent, "but she will come soon. There is time enough for
what she has to do. She had to wait till it was dark. She never works
in daylight."

"We are safe now," Isoult said.

"How is that--safe?"

"She will never see my lord except through me. The doorward will bring
her to me, or me to her. Then I shall be sent to my lord."

"And will you go, Isoult?"

"Never."

"What will you do?"

Isoult looked down at her belt, whither Vincent's eyes followed hers.

"Ah," he said, "will you dare do that?"

"There is nothing I would not dare for him."

Thereupon Vincent pulls out his dagger as bravely as you please.

"Isoult," says he, "this is man's work. You leave her to me."

"Man's work, Vincent?" But she could not bear to finish the sentence,
so changed it. "Man's work to stab a woman?"

"Man's work, Isoult, to shield the lady one loves--honours I should
say."

"Yes, that is better."

"No, it is worse. Oh! Isoult, may I not love you?"

"Certainly not."

"But how can I help it? I do love you. What can prevent me?"

Isoult coloured.

"Love itself can prevent you, Vincent."

"Oh! you are right, you are wise, you are very holy. I have never
thought of such things as that. And is that true love?"

"Love should kill love, if need were."

"Love shall," said Vincent in a whisper. Whereupon Isoult smiled on
him.

They fell to chatting again, discussing possibilities, or facts, which
were safer ground. Isoult heard the stroke of ten. Presently after,
the page-in-waiting sang out a challenge. A shuffling step stopped, a
cracked voice asked for Messire Prosper le Gai.

"Maulfry!" said Vincent with a shiver.

"Hush!"

"It is late to see Messire," said the page.

"He will see me none the less, young gentleman."

"Wait where you stand. I will fetch his squire."

Isoult got up. Vincent was already on his feet.

"Shall we go?" asked the boy.

"Wait," said the girl. "We must get rid of Balthasar."

Balthasar came in with his message to Roy. Isoult affected to know all
about it. She sent Balthasar off to find a sealed package, which did
not exist, in a turret room where it could not have been. Balthasar
went. He was a dull boy.

"Now," said Isoult, and led the way into the passage.

It was pretty dark there and draughty. A flickering cresset threw a
flare of light one minute, and was shrivelled to a blue spark the
next. It sufficed them to see a tall beribboned shape, a thing of
brown skin and loose black hair--a tall woman standing at a distance.
Side by side Isoult and Vincent went down towards her. Half-way Isoult
suddenly stopped and beckoned Maulfry forward with her hand. The fact
was that she had seen how near the woman stood to the guard-room door;
she wished to do her business undisturbed. Vincent, however, who knew
nothing of the guard-room, had a theory that Isoult was frightened.

Maulfry came bowing forward. Isoult turned and walked slowly away from
her, Vincent in company and on the watch; Maulfry followed, gaining.
By the buttery door Isoult suddenly stopped and faced round. Maulfry
was before her.

"Maulfry," said the girl quietly, "what do you want with my lord?"

Maulfry's eyes shifted like lightning from one to the other. She felt
her rage rising, but swallowed it down.

"You little fool," she said, "you little fool, his life is in danger."

"I have warned him, Maulfry. It was in danger."

"Warned him! I can do better than that. Why, your own is as shaky as
his. You have brought it about by your own folly, and now you are like
to let him be killed. Take me to him, child, for his sake and yours."

"You will never see him, Maulfry."

Maulfry hesitated for a second or two. She was very angry at this
trouble.

"You are a great fool for such a little body, Isoult," she said; "more
than I had believed. Come now, let me pass." She made to go on:
Isoult, to get ready, stepped back a step, but Vincent slipped in
between them. He was shaking all over.

"Stay where you are, dame," he said.

Maulfry gave a jump.

"Bastard!" She spat at him, and whipped a knife into his heart.
Vincent sobbed, and fell with a thud. In a trice Isoult had struck
with her dagger at Maulfry's shoulder. Steel struck steel: the blade
broke short off at the haft.

A guard came out with a torch, saw the trouble, and turned shouting to
his mates. Half-a-dozen of them came tumbling into the passage with
torches and pikes. There was a great smoke, some blinding patches of
light, everywhere else a sooty darkness. By the time they were up to
the buttery there was nothing to be seen but a boy sitting on the
flags with a dead boy on his knees. Maulfry had gone. As for Vincent,
Love had killed love sure as fate.

When Prosper heard of it all he was very angry. "Is this how you serve
me, child? To fight battles for me? I suppose I should return the
compliment by darning your stockings. I had things to say to this
woman, many things to learn. You have bungled my plans and vexed me."

Isoult humbled herself to the dust, but he would not be appeased.

"Who was this boy?" he asked her. "What on earth had he to do in my
affair?"

"Lord," she said meekly, "he died to save me from death, and once
before he risked his life to let me escape from Tortsentier."

Prosper felt the rebuke and got more angry.

"A fool meets with a fool's death. Boys and girls have no business
with steel. They should be in the nursery."

"I was in prison, lord."

He remembered then that she might have stayed in prison for all his
help. He began to be ashamed of himself.

"Child," he said more gently, "I did wrong to be angry; but you must
never thwart my plans. The boy loved you?"

"Few have loved me," said she, "but he loved me."

"Ah! Did he tell you so?"

"Yes, lord."

"And what did you say to that, Isoult?"

"I told him how love should be."

"So, so. And how do you think that love should be?"

"Thus, lord," said Isoult, looking to Vincent's heart.

Prosper turned pale. There were deeps, then, of which he had never
dreamed.

"Isoult," he said, "did you love this boy who so loved you?"

She shook her head rather pitifully. "Ah, no!"

"But yet you told him how he should love you?"

"Nay, lord, but I told him how I should love."

"You must have studied much in this science, my child."

"I am Isoult la Desirous, lord."

Prosper turned away. There was much here that he did not understand,
and that night before he went to sleep at her door he kissed her
forehead--it would have been her hand if his dignity had dared--and
then they prayed together as once in the forest.

Afterwards he was glad enough to remember this.




CHAPTER XIX

LADY'S LOVE


For, notwithstanding all that Isoult could urge (which was very little
indeed), Prosper started next morning with a dozen men to scour the
district for Maulfry. He refused point blank to take the girl with
him, and after her rebuke and abasement of the night before, still
more after the reconciliation on knees, she dared not plead overmuch.
He was a man and a great lord; she could not suppose that she knew all
his designs--any of them, if it came to that. He must go his way--
which was man's way--and she must stop at High March nursing her
heart--which was woman's way--even if High March proved a second
Gracedieu and Isabel a more inexorable Maulfry. No act of her own, she
resolved, should henceforward lead her to disobey him. Ah! she
remembered with a hot flush of pain--ah! her disobedience at Gracedieu
had brought all the mischief, Vincent's death all the anguish. Of
course it had not; of course Maulfry had tricked her; but she was not
the girl to spare herself reproaches. Her loyalty to Prosper took her
easily the length of stultification.

So Prosper went; and it may be some consolation to reflect that his
going pleased fourteen people at least. First it pleased the men he
took with him; for Prosper, that born fighter, was never so humorous
as when at long odds with death. Fighting seemed a frolic with him for
captain; a frolic, at that, where the only danger was that in being
killed outright you would lose a taste of the certain win for your
side. For among the High March men there was already a tradition--God
knows how these things grow--that Prosper le Gai and the hooded hawk
could not be beaten. He was so cheerful, victory so light a thing.
Then his cry--_Bide the time_--could anything be more heartening?
Rung out in his shrill tones over the open field, during a night
attack, say, or called down the darkening alleys of the forest, when
the skirmishers were out of each other's sight and every man faced a
dim circle of possible hidden foes? Pest! it tied man to man, front to
rear. It tied the whole troop to the brain of a young demon, who was
never so cool as when the swords were flying, and most wary when
seeming mad. Blood was a drink, death your toast, at such a banquet.
And that accounts for twelve out of fourteen.

The thirteenth was Countess of Hauterive, Châtelaine of High March,
Lady of Morgraunt, etc. A very few days inhabitancy where Master Roy
was of the party, had assured this lady that the page must be ridded.
She wished him no ill: you do not wish ill to the earwig which you
brush out of the window. Certainly if a boy had needs be stabbed by an
Egyptian (who incontinent disappears and must be hunted) it were
simpler Roy had fallen than the other. But she had no thought of
amending the mistakes of Providence. Great ladies who are really great
do not go to work to have inconvenient lacqueys stabbed. This at least
was not the Countess of Hauterive's way. If Fulk de Bréauté had not
been her lover as well as her husband, if he had been (for instance)
only her husband, she would have despised Earl Roger fully as much for
the affair on Spurnt Heath. No. But she meant Roy to go, and here was
her chance.

The fourteenth was Melot, a maid of the kitchen. This young woman,
whose love affairs were at least as important in her own eyes as could
possibly be those of the Countess her mistress (whom she had hardly
ever seen), or of Prosper (whom she conceived as a sexless
abstraction, built for the purposes of eating and wearing steel), or
of Roy (who, she assumed, had none)--this young woman, I say, was best
pleased of them all. She was perhaps pretty; she had a certain
exuberant charm, I suppose--round red cheeks, round black eyes, even
teeth, and a figure--and was probably apt to give it the fullest
credit. Roy's indifference, or reticence, or timidity (whichever it
was) provoked her. There was either innocence, or backwardness, or
_ennui_ to overcome: in any case, victory would be a triumph over
a kitchenful of adepts, and here was a chance of victory. So far she
owned to failure in all the essays she had made. She had tried
comradeship, a bite of her apple--declined. She had put her head on
his shoulder more than once--endured once, checked effectively by
sudden removal of the shoulder and upsetting of the lady a final time.
She leaned over him to see what he was reading--he ceased reading.
Comradeship was a mockery; let her next try mischief. For happy
mischief the passionist must fume: he had looked at her till she felt
a fool. She had tried innuendo--he did not understand it; languishing
--he gladly left her to languish; coquetry elsewhere--he asked nothing
better. She thought she must be more direct; and she was.

Isoult was in the pantry alone the second day of Prosper's quest. She
stood at gaze out of the window, seeing nothing but dun-colour and
drab where the sunlight made all the trees golden-green. Melot came in
with a great stir over nothing at all, hemmed, coughed, sighed,
heighoed. The block of a fellow stood fast, rooted at his window--
gaping. Melot was stung. She came to close quarters.

"Oh, Roy," she sighed, "never was such a laggard lad with me before.
Where hast thou been to school?"

Thereupon she puts hands upon the dunce, kisses him close, grows
sudden red, stammers, holds off, has the wit to make sure--and bundles
out, blazing with her news.

In twenty minutes it was all over the castle; Prosper's flag was
higher, and Isoult's in the mire. In thirty it had come to my lady's
dresser. Isoult, in the meantime, purely unconscious of anything but a
sick heart, had wandered up into the ante-chamber, and was poring over
a Book of Hours of the Blessed Virgin, leaning on her elbows at a
table.

The dresser, having assimilated the news, was only too happy to impart
to the Countess. This she did, and with more detail than the truth
would warrant. Half hints became whole, backstairs whispers shouted in
the corridors; and all went to swell the feast of sound in the lady's
chamber. It would be idle to say that the Countess was furious, and
moreover untrue, for that implies a scarlet face; the Countess grew as
grey as a dead fire. She was, in truth, more shocked than angry,
shocked at such a flagrant insult to her mere hospitality. But
gradually, as the whole truth seemed to shape itself--the figure she
made, standing bare as her love had left her before this satyr of a
man; the figure of Prosper, tongue in the cheek, leering at her; the
figure of Isoult, a loose-limbed wanton sleepy with vice--before this
hideous trinity, when she had shuddered and cringed, she rose up
trembling, possessed with a really imperial rage. And if ever a
grievously flouted lady had excuse for rage, it was this lady.

Her rages were never storms, always frosts. These are the more deadly,
because they give the enraged more time. So she said very little to
her dresser. It came to this--"Ah! And where is the woman now?"

The dresser replied that when she had passed by the woman was in the
ante-chamber.

"Very well," said the Countess, "you may leave her there. Go." She
pointed to a door which led another way. The dresser felt baulked of
her just reward. But that was to come.

The Countess, still trembling from head to foot, took two or three
swift turns across the room. The few gentle lines about her face were
more like furrows; the skin was very tight over the lips and cheek-
bones. She opened the door softly. Isoult was still in the ante-
chamber, leaning over the Book of Hours, wherein she had found treated
of the 'Seven Sorrowful Mysteries.' Her short hair fell curling over
her cheeks; but she was boyish enough, to sight. The Countess went
quickly behind her, and before the girl could turn about was satisfied
of the amazing truth.

Isoult, blushing to the roots of her hair, stood up. Her troubled eyes
tried at first to meet her accuser's stony pair. They failed
miserably; almost any plight but this a girl can face. She hung her
head, waiting for the storm.

"Why are you here, woman?" came sharp as sleet.

"I came to warn my lord, madam."

"What are you to him?"

Now for it;--no, never! "I am his servant, madam."

"His servant? You would say his--" The Countess spared nothing. Isoult
began to rock. She covered her face with her hands and sobbed dry.

"Answer me, if you please," continued the Countess. "What are you to
this man?"

Isoult had no voice.

"If you do not answer me I shall treat you for what I know you are.
You know the penalty. I give you three minutes."

There was no more then from the Countess for three minutes by the
glass. The great lady stood erect, cold and white, seemingly frozen by
the frost which burns you. The only sound in the room was the sobbing
of the cowed girl, who also stood with hidden face and drooping knees,
broken with sobs, but tearless. Ah, what under heaven could she do but
as she did? Married to Prosper? How, when he had not declared it; had
received her as his servant, and treated her as a servant? How, when
she knew that the marriage of such as he to such as she was a
disablement far more serious than the relationship thrown at her by
the Countess? How, above all, when he had married her for charity,
without love and without worship, could she bring scorn upon him who
had dragged her out of scorn? Never, never! She must set her teeth
hard, bow her head, and endure. The time was up.

"Your answer, woman," said the Countess. There was none--could be
none. Only the victim raised a white twitching face to a white stony
face, and with desperate eyes searched it for a ray of pity. Again
there was none--could be none.

The Countess went quickly up and struck her on the mouth with her open
hand. The victim shivered, but stood.

"Go, strumpet!" said the lady. She threw open the door, and thrust
Isoult into the crowd of men and maids waiting in the corridor.

Master Jasper Porges, the seneschal, was the man of all the world who
loved to have things orderly done. The hall was at his disposition; he
arranged his tribunal, the victim in the midst, accuser and witnesses
in a body about his stool, spectators to form a handsome ring--to set
off, as it were, his jewel.

"Her ladyship gives me a free hand in this affair," he said in a short
speech. "You could not have a better man; leave it to me therefore.
There must be a judge. By office, by years, by weariness, by
experience of all (or most) ways of evil-doing, I am the judge for
you. Good; I sit in the seat of judgment. There must be next a jury of
matrons, since this is a free and great country where no man or woman
(whichever this prisoner may be) can be so much as suspected of sex
without a judgment. And since we have not matrons enough, we will make
a shift with the maids. A dozen of you to the benches on the table, I
beg. So far, good. We need next an accused person. He, or she, is
there. Put the person well forward, if you please. Good. Now we are
ready for our advocates; we need an _Advocatus Dei_, or accuser,
and an _Advocatus Diaboli_, or common enemy, to be defender.
Melot, my chicken, you are advocate for God Almighty, and the office
is high enough for you, I hope. _Diaboli Advocatus_ we have
naturally none, since this is a Christian land. Believe me, we are
better without such cattle. I proceed, therefore, by the rules of
logic which are well known to be irresistible, so much so that had
there been a devil's advocate present I must have declined to admit
him lest our Christian profession be made a mock. Hence it follows
that there is no defence. One might almost foretell the event; but
that would be prejudice. We proceed then to interpolate the accused,
saying--'Person, you (being a man) are strangely accused of being a
woman. The court invites you to declare yourself, adding this plain
rider and doom, that if you declare yourself a man, you are condemned
in the person of your familiar, the devil, who deceiveth those that
say you are a woman; and that if you prove to be a woman, you are
condemned by those who dealt with you as a man. Therefore, declare.'"

Master Porges waited, but waited in vain. He was pained. "What,
silence?" he whispered awfully. "What, contumacy? Stubborn refusal?
Sinking in sin? Can I believe my ears? Very good, prisoner, very good.
Melot, my bird of paradise, give your evidence."

This had effect. "I confess," said the accused (speaking for the first
time), "I am not a man."

"There now, there now," cried Master Porges in an ecstasy, "the
sleeper awakened! The conscience astir! Oh, infallible fount of
justice! Oh, crown of the generation of Adam too weighty for the
generation of Eve! Observe now, my loving friends, how beautiful the
rills of logic flowing from this stricken wretch. Let me deduce them
for you. As thus. A woman seeketh naturally a man: but this is a
woman; therefore she sought naturally a man. My friends, that is just
what she did. For she sought Messire Prosper le Gai, a lord, the
friend of ladies. Again. A man should cleave unto his wife: but
Messire le Gai is a man, therefore Messire should cleave unto his
wife. 'La, la!' one will say, 'but he hath no wife, owl!' and think to
lay me flat. Oh, wise fool, I reply, take another syllogism conceived
in this manner and double-tongued. It is not good for man to live
alone; neither is it good for a lady to live alone, who hath a great
estate and the cares of it: but Messire Prosper is that man, and her
ladyship is that lady; therefore they should marry; therefore Messire
Prosper should cleave unto her ladyship, and what the devil hath this
woman to do between a man and his wife now? Aha, I have you clean in a
fork. I have purposely omitted a few steps in my ladder of inference
to bring it home. Then, look, cometh crawling this accurséd. _O
tempora, O Mores! O Pudor! O Saecula Saeculorum!_ What incontinency,
you will say; and I say, What, indeed! Then cometh fairly your turn.
Seneschal, you go on threatening me, this is a Christian castle under
a Christian lady, the laws whereof are fixed and stable so that no
man may blink them. I say, Aye. You go on to plead, noble seneschal
(say you), give us our laws lest we perish. I see the tears; I say, Aye.
The penalty of incontinency is well known to you; I say, Aye. It is just.
I bow my head. I say, Take your incontinent incontinently, and deal!"

Master Porges got off the table, and, ceasing to be a justice, became
a creature of his day. Now, his day was a wild one as his dwelling a
barbarous, where the remedy for most offences was a drubbing.

Isoult bowed her head, set her teeth hard, and bent to the storm. The
storm burst over her, shrilled, whistled, and swept her down. In her
unformulate creed Love was, sure enough, a lord of terrible aspect,
gluttonous of blood, in whose service nevertheless the blood-letter
should take delight. No flagellant scored his back more deeply nor
with braver heart than she her smitten side. It would appear that she
was a better Christian than she suspected, since she laid down her
life for her friend, and found therein her reward. And her reward was
this, that Prosper le Gai, the gallant fighter, remained for Melot and
her kind a demi-god in steel, while she, his wife, was adjudged to the
black ram. To the black ram she was strapped, face to the tail, and so
ran the gauntlet of the yelling host in the courtyard, and of the
Countess of Hauterive's chill gaze from the parvise. By this time she
had become a mere doll, poor wretch; and as there is no pleasure in a
love of justice which is not quickened by a sense of judgment, the
pursuers tired after the first mad bout. Some, indeed, found that they
had hurt themselves severely by excess of zeal. This was looked upon
as clear evidence of the devil's possession of a tail, in spite of the
Realists. For if he had not a tail, how could he injure those who
drove him out? This is unanswerable.

The end of it all was that no more than three great hearts pursued the
black ram with its wagging burden into the forest. Of whom one,
feeling the fatuity of slaying the slain, or having, it may be, some
lurking seed of nominalism fomenting within, beat off the others and
unstrapped the victim's arms and legs.

"Though you are a wanton, God knows," he said, "you are flesh and
blood, or were so an hour ago. Be off with you now, and learn honest
living."

This was irony of fact, though not of intention. It was prompted by
that need which we all have of fortifying ourselves. But it probably
saved the girl's life. The men withdrew, and she lay there quiet
enough, with a bloody foam on her mouth, for two nights and a day.

It is said, I know not how truly, that the ram stayed by her, was
found standing there when she was found. It is like enough; there was
a good deal of the animal, beyond the wild-beast savour, about Isoult.
She was certainly no formularist; nor had she the reward of those who
do well to be angry, which lies, I suppose, in being able to drub with
a whole heart.




CHAPTER XX

HOW PROSPER HELD A REVIEW


Messire Prosper le Gai with his dozen men had scoured the forest
country from March on the east to Wanmeeting on the west, and from
March-Gilbert among the hills of the north to Gracedieu in Mid-
Morgraunt, without any sign of the Egyptian. But at Wanmeeting there
had been news of a golden knight, who, unattended, rode into the
market-place at sunset asking the whereabouts of Galors de Born and
his force. Having learned that they had taken the Goltres road the
knight had posted off at a gallop, hot foot. Now Prosper knew what
sort of a force Galors might have there, and guessed (from what
intelligence Isoult had added to his own) that the golden knight would
make at least two brains in it. To follow, to get his dozen men
killed, were nothing; but could he be certain Galors would be dropped
and Maulfry secured for the appointed branding before the last of them
fell? As for his own life, we know that he considered that arranged
for. He habitually left it out of the reckoning. On the whole,
however, he decided that he could not successfully attack. He must
return for reinforcements, taking with him a report which, he relied,
would secure them. Waisford had been raided, the fields about it laid
waste. There were evidences of burnings and slaughterings on all
hands. He put what heart he could into the scared burgesses before he
left, and what common-sense. But Galors had gone through like a hot
wind.

So Prosper and his men returned to High March. On the morning in which
Isoult stirred to open her loaded eyes, and began to moan a little, he
and they went by within some forty yards of her--the troopers first,
then himself riding alone behind them. He heard the moaning sound and
looked up; indeed, he saw the black ram standing, alone as he thought,
with drooped head. Prosper was full of affairs. "Some ewe but lately
yeaned," he thought as he rode on. The glaze swam again over Isoult's
eyes, and the moaning grew faint and near its death. The ram fell to
licking her cheek. In this pass she was presently found by a charcoal-
burner, who had delivered his loads, and was now journeying back with
his asses into the heart of the forest. He also heard the moaning; he
too saw the ram. Perhaps he knew more of the habits of ewes or had
them readier in mind. He may have had no affairs. The beast, at any
rate, was a ram for him, and the licked cheek that of a murdered boy
who lay with the other cheek on the sward. The blood about his eyes
and hair, the blood on the grass, was dry blood; nevertheless the man
turned him over, felt his bones, listened at his heart, and made up
his mind that he was not dead. A little wine to his lips brought him
to. The charcoal-burner looked into the wounds and washed them,
produced black bread, goat's-milk cheese, with a little more wine,
finally helped the beaten lad to his feet and to one of his asses. He
assumed it was a fight and not a failure to murder: that was safer for
him. With the same view he asked no questions. It was a pity to leave
the ram, he thought. Butcher's meat was scarce. He killed it then and
there, having plenty of asses to hand. In that category, with little
doubt, must be placed the ram in question, who, had he had a proper
abhorrence of persons who rode him face to the tail, would have kept
his skin and lived to found a family.

The charcoal-burner, when all was made fast, set his team in motion.
Man, woman, and asses, they ambled off down the green alley towards
the middle holds of Morgraunt.

Prosper and his men, lords of those parts, went on their way home to
High March. The men disposed in their lodging, Prosper himself rode
under the gateway of the castle, crossed the drawbridge, and entered
the courtyard amid the mock salutes of the grinning servants. Full of
thought as he was, vexed at his check, curiously desiring to see
Isoult again (who had such believing eyes!), he took no heed of all
this, but dismounting, called for his page. At this there was a hush,
as when the play is to begin. Then Master Porges, the seneschal,
solemnly awaiting him, solemnly blinked at him, and cleared his throat
for a speech.

"Messire," he said, "Messire, to call for a page is an easy matter,
but to answer for a page is a difficult matter." He loved periphrasis,
the good Porges.

"What do you mean by that, my dear friend?" said Prosper blandly,
defying periphrasis.

"Messire," went on Master Porges, hard put to it, "to answer you were
to defile the tongue God hath given me for her ladyship's service. To
obey is better than sacrifice. Her present obedience is that I should
request your presence in the ante-chamber the instant of your
appearing before these halls."

"You will do me the honour, seneschal," said Prosper, growing polite,
"to answer my question first."

"I will send for the girl Melot, Messire," answered Master Porges.

"You shall send for whom you please, my friend, but you shall answer
my question before you move from that step."

The seneschal did not move from the step. He sent a loiterer to fetch
Melot from the kitchen, while Prosper waited, the centre of an
entranced crowd.

"Ah, the suffering maid!" cried the seneschal as he saw Melot near at
hand. "My maid, you must speak to Messire in answer to a question he
put me but a few minutes since. Messire, my girl, asked for his page."

Melot's heart began to thump. The steel demigod was before her, she
unprepared. The fire was laid, but wanted kindling. Prosper kindled it
for his own consuming.

"Pray what has this woman to do here?" he asked.

"Woman indeed!" rounded Melot, breathing again. "Woman! do you call me
names, Messire? Keep them for the baggage you fetched in!"

Prosper saw the whole thing in a flash. He grew still more polite.

"Seneschal," he said, "have the goodness to inform your mistress of my
coming. Pray that I may wait upon her immediately.... I think," he
added after a pause, "I think that you had better go at once."

The seneschal agreed that he had. He went.

Prosper waited in silence, in a crowd equally silent.

The seneschal shortly returned.

"Her ladyship will see Messire at once. I beg Messire to follow me."

He entered the Countess's chamber, and, lifting his head, looked at a
white lady on a throne. He had never seen her so before. She was
dressed in pure white, with a face near as dead as her clothes. All
that was dark about it haunted her masked eyes. She sat with her chin
in her hand, looking and waiting for him; when he came, and the
seneschal was dismissed with a curt nod, she still sat in the same
dead fashion, watchful of her guest, unwinking, pondering. Prosper,
for his part, bided the time. He guessed what was coming, but a word
from him might have put him in the wrong.

In the end the Countess broke the long silence. He thought he had
never heard her voice; it sounded like that of a tired old woman.

"I had thought to find in you, my lord, the son of an old friend, like
in spirit as in blood to him whom at first I sought to honour in you.
I find I have been mistaken, but for your father's sake I will not
tell you how much nor by what degrees. Rather I will beg you go at
once from my house."

Said Prosper--

"Madam, for my father's sake, if not for mine, you will tell much more
than this to his son. Have your words any hint of reference to the
Lady Isoult? Speak of her, madam, as you would speak of my mother, for
she is my wife."

The Countess shrank back in her throne as if to avoid a whip. She
cowered there. Her eyes dilated, though she seemed incapable of seeing
anything at all; her mouth opened gradually--Prosper expected her to
scream--till it formed a round O, a pale ring circling black. Prosper,
having delivered his blow, waited in his turn; though his breath
whistled through his nostrils his lips were shut, his head still very
high. The blow was a shrewd one for the lady. You might have counted
twenty before she began to talk to herself in a whisper. Prosper
thought she was mad.

"I should have known--I should have known--I should have known," she
whispered, very fast, as people whisper on a death-bed.

"Madam," he broke in, "certainly you should have known had it seemed
possible to tell you. Even now I can tell you no more than the bare
fact, which is as I have stated it. And so it must be for the moment,
until I have completed an adventure begun. But so much as I tell you
now I might have told you before. It is shame to me that I did not.
Marriage to me is a new thing, love still a strange thing. Had I
thought then as I now do, be sure you would never have seen me here
without my wife, whom now, madam, I will pray leave to present to you,
the Lady Isoult le Gai."

During this narration the Countess had risen slowly to her feet. She
was labouring under some stress which Prosper could not fathom. For a
little she stood, working her torture before him. Then she suddenly
smote herself on the breast and cried at him--"You have done more
misery than you can dream." And again she struck herself, and then,
coming down from her throne like a wild thing, she shrieked at him as
if possessed--"You fool, you fool! Look at me!"

He could not help himself; look he must. She came creeping up to him.
She caught at his two hands and peered into his face with her blind
eyes.

"Do you love Isoult, Prosper?"

He could hardly hear her. But he raised his head.

"By God and His Christ, I believe that I do," said he.

The Countess took a dagger from her girdle, unsheathed it, and put it
in his hand. She knelt down before him as a woman kneels to a saint in
a church. With a sudden frenzy she tore open the front of her gown so
that all her bosom was bare, and then as suddenly whipt her hands
behind her back.

"Now kill me, Prosper," she whined; "for I love thee, and I have
killed thy love Isoult."

So she bowed her head and waited.

But Prosper gave a terrible cry, and turned and left her kneeling. He
ran down the corridor blindly, not knowing how or whither he fared. At
the end of it was a door which gave on to the Minstrel Gallery over
the great hall. Into this trap he ran and fetched up against the
parapet. Below him in the hall were countless faces--as it seemed, a
sea of white faces, mouthing, jeering, and cursing. He stood glaring
blankly at them, fetching his breath. Words flew about--horrible! Out
of all he caught here and there a scrap, each tainted with hate and
unspeakable disgrace.

"Come down, thou polluter." Again, "Serve him like his wench."--
"Trounce him with his woman."--"Send the pair to hell!"

The dawning attention he began to pay sobered his panic, quenched it.
What he learned by listening struck him cold. He took pains; he could
hear every word now, surely. He was really very attentive. The
chartered rascals packed in the hall took this for irresolution, and
howled at him to their hearts' content. Once more Prosper held to his
motto--bided the time. The time came with the coming of Master Porges
--that smug and solemn man--into the assembly. The seneschal looked
round him with a benignant air, as who should say, "My children all!"
The listening man in the gallery watched all this.

Suddenly his sword flashed out. Prosper vaulted over the gallery,
dropped down into the thick of them, and began to kill. Kill indeed he
did. Right and left, like a man with a scythe, he sliced a way for
himself. There were soldiers, pikemen, and guards in the press: there
was none there so tall as he, nor with such a reach, above all, there
was none whose rage made him cold and his anger merry. However they
were, they could scarcely have faced the hard glitter of his blue
eyes, the smile of his fixed lips. He could have carved with a dagger,
with a bludgeon, a flail, or a whip. As it was, to a long arm was
added a long sword, which whistled through the air, but through flesh
went quiet. There had been blows at first from behind and at the side
of him. The long mowing arms stayed them. It became a butchery of
sheep before he was midway of the hall, thence the rest of his passage
to the door was between two huddled heaps, with not a flick in either.

He reached his goal, shot the bolt, and turned, leaning against the
door. The heaped walls of that human sea had by this flowed over his
lane; now they stood eyeing him who faced them and wiped his blade
with a piece cut from the arras--eyeing him askance with silly,
shocked faces. Behind them a few grunted or sobbed; but for the most
part he had done his work only too well.

Having wiped exquisitely his sword and sheathed it, Prosper took a
step forward. The heap of men huddled again.

"Let one go to fetch Melot," he said softly.

No one stirred.

"Let one go to fetch Melot."

No motion, no breath.

"Ah," said he as if to himself, and laid hand to pommel. The heap
shuddered and turned on itself. It swarmed. Finally, like a drop from
a sponge, Master Porges exuded and stood out, a sweating monument.

"Seneschal," said Prosper, with a bow, "I am for the moment about to
ask a favour of you. Have the goodness to oblige me." He unbolted the
door and held it open for the man.

Master Porges gasped, looked once to heaven, thought to pray.

"_In manus teas, Domine!_" he sighed.

"Exactly," said Prosper, and kicked him out. The breathless audience
was resumed.

A timid knocking--a mere flutter--at the door ushered in as tip-toe a
couple as you might easily see. Master Porges fell to his knees and
prayers; Melot was too far gone for that. She simply did everything
she was told.

"Melot," said Prosper, "you will tell me the whole tale from the
beginning. It was you who first knew the Lady Isoult?"

"Yes, Messire."

"It was you who told the others?"

"Yes, Messire."

"Your mistress then saw the Lady Isoult?"

"Yes, Messire."

"What happened next?"

"My lady struck her, and pushed her into the corridor, Messire."

"Ah! And then?"

"And we were all there, Messire."

"Ah, yes. Waiting?"

"Yes, Messire."

"And then?"

"Then we had a procession, Messire."

"Who ordered it?"

"The seneschal had the ordering, Messire."

"_O Pudor!_ O afflicted liar!" prayed Master Porges.

But the tale went on. The afflicted liar forgot nothing except Master
Porges' syllogisms. These she took for granted. At the end Prosper
said to her--

"Melot, you may go. I do not punish women, and you have only done
after your kind. Go to the others."

The pack opened and swallowed her up. Prosper turned to Master Porges,
who was gabbling prayers for his enemies.

"Master Seneschal," he said, "since it is you who have driven this
herd of hogs to do your work, now I shall drive them to do mine. And
in teaching you through them what it is to do villainy to ladies, I
teach them through you. They could not have a better guide than their
headman; and as for you, I will take care that you are well grounded
in what you have to teach."

"Ah, Messire," babbled the shiny rogue, "have I not done after my kind
also?"

"You have indeed, my friend," Prosper replied. "Now I will do after
mine."

To be short, he had Master Porges stripped, horsed, and stoutly
flogged then and there. This he did by the simple device of calling up
his agents by name, having the general's knack of judging men. Master
Porges was a pursy man, but there were burlier than he; a couple of
lean stablemen made good practice with the stirrup-leathers. At the
end the entire herd were his slaves. One fetched his horse, another
his shield and spear, three fought for the stirrup. A dozen would have
shown him the way to the last scene of the martyrdom (for so, by vivid
comparison, the common enthusiasm conceived it); but for this he chose
the man who had unstrapped the girl. This worthy had not failed to
recommend himself to notice on that score. He received his reward.
Prosper addressed him two requests. The first was, "Lead," and the man
led him. The second was, "Go," and the man fled back. Prosper was left
alone before a form of bruised bracken to make what he could of it.

He was a man of action, not given to reflections, not imaginative,
essentially simple in what he thought and did. What he did was to
dismount and doff his helmet. Next, with the butt of his spear, he
battered out the cognizance on his shield till no _fesse
dancettée_ rippled there. "I will bear you next when I have won
you," said he to the maimed arm. Bare-headed then he knelt before the
form in the fern and prayed.

"Lord God of heaven and earth, now at last I know what the love of
woman is. Let my wife learn of me the love of an honest man. And to
that end, Father of heaven, suffer me to be made a man. _Per
Christum Dominum_," etc.

At the end of his prayer he knelt on, and what drove in his brain I
know not at all. The unutterable devotion of that meek and humble
creature who called him master and lord, who had lain by his side,
walked at his heels, sat at his knee, served at his table, put his
foot to her neck (she so high in grace, he so shameless in brute
strength!), bowed to a yoke, endured scorn, shame, bleeding, stripes,
blindness, and the swoon like death--all this was something beyond
thought: it was piercingly sweet, but it beat him down as a breath of
flame. He fell flat on his face upon the black fern and blood, and so
stayed crying like a boy.

When he got up he buckled on his helm, mounted, and rode straight for
Goltres.

Master Porges knew an image-maker at March, and paid him a visit. He
caused to be made a little stone figure of a lady, very beautiful,
with a brass aureole round her victorious head. She was depicted
trampling on a grinning knight--evidently the devil in one of his many
disguises, though as like Prosper as description could provide.
Underneath, on the pedestal, ran the legend--_Sancta Isolda Dei
Genetricis Ancilla Ora Pro Nobis_. He set this up in his chamber
over a faldstool, and said three _Paters_ and nine _Aves_ before
it daily. He reported that he derived unspeakable comfort from the
practice, and for my part I believe that he did.




CHAPTER XXI

HOW THE NARRATIVE SMACKS AGAIN OF THE SOIL


The charcoal-burner's convoy, bearing at once the evidence and the
reward of his humanity, a battered lady on one ass and her flayed
friend on another, jogged leisurely through the forest glades. The
time was the very top of spring, the morning soft and fair, but none
of the party took any heed: the charcoal-burner because he was by
habit too close to these things, Isoult because she was in a faint,
the black ram because he had been skinned. When Isoult did finally
lift her head and begin to look timidly about her, she found herself
in a country unfamiliar, which, for all she knew, might be an hour's
or a week's journey from High March, where Prosper was. Prosper! She
knew that every mincing step of the donkey took her further from him,
but she was powerless to protest or to pray; life scarce whispered in
her yet. And what span of miles or hours, after all, could set her
wider from him than discovery, the shame, the yelling of her foes, had
hounded her?

In this new blank discomfiture of hers, she was like one who has been
taught patiently to climb by a gentle hand. The hand trusts her and
lets go--down, down she falls, and from the mire at the bottom can see
the sunny slopes above her, and the waiting guide stretched at rest
until she come. The utter abasement of her state numbed her spirit;
any other spirit would have been killed outright. But to her one thing
remained, that dull and endless patience of the earth-born, poor clods
without hope or memory, who from dwelling so hidden in the lap of the
earth seem to win a share of its eternal sufferance. Your peasant will
bow his back as soon as he can stand upright, and every year draws him
nearer to the earth. The rheumatics at last grip him unawares, and
clinch him in a gesture which is a figure of his lot. The scarred
hills, the burnt plains, the trees which the wind cows and lays down,
the flowers and corn, meek or glad at the bidding of the hour--the
earth-born is kin to these, more plant than man. I have done ill if I
have not thus expounded Isoult la Desirous, for without such knowledge
of her you will hardly understand her apathy. She had been lapped so
long on the knees of earth; her flights in the upper air had been so
short, and her tumble with a broken wing so sharp, that she resumed
the crouch, the bent knees, the folded arms, the face in hands of the
earth-born, with hardly a struggle. If she had been meant for the air,
she would be in the air; if she was meant to die a serf as she had
lived, why, at the rate she was spending, death would be quick--
_ecco_! The word comes pat when you talk of such lives as hers,
for the Italian peasant is the last of the earth-born, invincibly
patient.

So Isoult, it seems, had the grace to know how far she had fallen, but
not the wit to try for redemption once more. In accepting her tumble
for a fate, I think it is clear that she was so far earthy as to be
meek as a woodflower. Says she, If the rain fall, the dew rise, the
sun shine, or wind blow mild, each in their due season--well, I will
look up, laugh and be glad. You shall see how lovely I can be, and how
loving. If the frost bind the ground in May, if you parch me with
frozen wind, or shrivel me with heat, or let me rot in the soak of a
wet June--well, I will bend my neck; you will see me a dead weed; I
shall love you, but you shall hardly know it. If you are God, you
should know; but if you are a man--ah, that is my misfortune, to love
you in spite of common-sense.

Isoult believed she was abandoned by Prosper; she believed that she
deserved it. She must be graceless, would die disgraced, having served
her turn, she supposed. If, nevertheless, she persisted in loving, who
was hurt? Besides, she could not help it any more than she could help
being a scorn and a shame. Fatalist! So it was with her.

The charcoal burner had no curiosity. She hadn't been quite murdered;
she was a boy; boys do not readily die. On the other side, they are
handy to climb woodstacks, labour saving appliances--with the aid of
an ash plant. And he was a clear fat sheep to the good. So he asked no
questions, and made no remarks beyond an occasional oath. They slept
one night in the thicket, rose early, travelled steadily the next day,
and in course reached a clearing, where there were three or four black
tents, some hobbled beasts, a couple of lean dogs, and a steady column
of smoke, which fanned out into a cloud overhead. Here were the coal
stacks; here also she found the colliers, half-a-dozen begrimed
ruffians with a fortnight's beard apiece. No greetings passed, nor any
introduction of the white-faced boy shot into their midst. One of
them, it is true, a red-haired, bandy-legged fellow, called Falve,
looked over the newcomer, and swore that it was hard luck their
rations should be shortened to fatten such a weed; but that was all
for the hour.

At dusk, suppertime, there was a cross examination, held by Falve.

"What's your name, boy?"

"Roy."

"To hell with your echoes. Where do you come from?"

"I don't know."

"What can you do?"

"As I am bid."

"Can you climb?"

"Yes."

"Cook?"

"Yes."

"Wink at a woman?"

"I see none."

"Fight?"

"At need."

"Take a licking?"

"I have learnt that."

"By God he has, I'll warrant," chuckled the man who had found her.

"Hum," said Falve. "Are you hungry, Roy?"

"No."

"Then do you cook the supper and I'll eat it. Do you see this little
belt o' mine?"

"Yes."

"It's a terror, this belt. Don't seek to be nearer acquaint. Go and
cook."

The ram proved excellent eating--tender and full of blood. Humane,
even liberal, counsels prevailed over the sated assembly. The boy
seemed docile enough, and likely; just a Jack of the build needful to
climb the stacks of smouldering boughs, see to the fires, cord the cut
wood and the burnt wood, lead the asses, cook the dinner, call the men
--to be, in fact, what Jack should be. Jack he was, and Jack he should
be called. Falve held out for a thrashing as a set-off; it seemed
unnatural, he said, to have a belt and a boy at arms'-length. It was
outvoted on account of the lateness of the hour, but only delayed. The
beds were made ready, and Jack and his masters went to sleep.

The argument, which, holding as I do steadfastly with Socrates, I must
follow whithersoever it runs, assures me that charcoal-burning is a
grimy trade, and the charcoal-burners' Jack the blackest of the party;
for if he be not black with coal-smoke, he will be black and blue with
his drubbings. Isoult, in the shreds of Roy, grew, you may judge, as
black and uncombed as any of the crew. She had not a three-weeks'
beard, but her hair began to grow faster; the roses in her cheek were
in flower under the soot. Her hair curled and waved about her neck,
her eyes shone and were limpid, her roses bloomed unawares; she grew
sinewy and healthy in the kind forest airs. She worked very hard, ate
very little, was as often beaten as not. All this made for health; in
addition, she nursed a gentle thought in her heart, which probably
accounted for as much as the open air. This was the news of Prosper's
return to High March, and of the fine works he performed there in the
hall. It came to her in a roundabout way through some pony drovers,
who had it from Market Basing. The pietist at March, who made the
image of Saint Isolda, may have spread the news. At any rate it came,
it seeded in her heart, and as she felt the creeping of the little
flower she blushed. It told her that Prosper had avenged her--more,
had owned her for his. This last grain of news it was which held her
seed. If he owned her abroad--amazing thought!--it must be that he
loved her. As she so concluded, a delicate, throbbing fire fluttered
in her side, and stole up to burn unreproved and undetected in her
cheeks. Her reasoning was no reasoning, of course; but she knew
nothing of knightly honour or the dramatic sense, so it seemed
incontrovertible. At this discovery she was as full of shame as if she
had done a sin. A sin indeed it seemed almost to be in her, that one
so high should stoop to one so low, and she not die at once.
Sacrilege--should not one die rather than suffer a sacrilege to be
thrust upon one? So Clytie may have felt, and Oreithyia, when they
discerned the God in the sun, or wild embraces of the wind.

Yet the certainty--for that it was--coincided with her lurking
suspicion of the virtue lying in her own strong love. It made that
suspicion hardy; it budded, as I have said, and bore a flower. She
could feel and fondle her ring again, and talk to it at night. "Lie
snug," she would say, "lie close. He will come again and put thee in
place, for such love as mine, which endureth all things, is not to be
gainsaid." Thus she grew healthy as she grew full of heart, and gained
sleek looks for any who had had eyes to see them.

Luckily for her, at present there was none. It is providence for the
earth-born that their mother's lap soon takes furrows in which they
may run. The charcoal-burners' life was no exception: hard work from
dawn to dusk, food your only recreation, sleep your only solace. The
weather is no new thing to you, to gape at and talk about. As well
might the gentry talk about the joys of their daily bath. You have no
quarrels, do no sins, for you have neither women nor strong waters in
your forest tents. And if you knew how, you would thank God that you
are incapable of thought, since a thinking vegetable were a lost
vegetable. To think is to hope, and to hope is to sin against
religion, which says, God saw that it was good. More than any
reflecting man your earth-born believes in God, or the devil. It comes
to much the same, if you will but work it out. He is a deist, his God
an autocrat.

Isoult, the demure little freethinker, had another secret god--him of
the iris wings. She loved, she was loved; she dared hope to be happy.
So far of the earth as to be humble, so far from it as to hope, she
grew in the image of her god and was lovely; she remembered the
precepts of her mother earth and was patient. Whenever she could she
washed herself in the forest brooks; so woods and running water saw in
her the blossoming rod. At these times she could have hymned her god
had she known how; but Prosper had only taught her what his priests
had taught him, that this was a world where every one is for himself,
and to him that asks shall be given. To him that asks twice should be
twice given. The consequence is that life is a great hunting, with no
time for thanksgiving unalloyed. You must end your _Gloria_ in a
whining petition. Having, however, nothing to ask, she sat at these
times in ecstasy inarticulate, her rags laid by for a season, looking
long and far through the green lattice towards the blue, bent upon
exploration of the joyful mysteries. A beam of the sun would fall upon
her to warm her pale beauty and make it glow, the wind of mid-June
play softly in her hair, and fold her in a child's embrace. Then again
she would toy with her ring. "Ring, ring, he will come again, and put
thee where thou shouldest be. Meantime lie still until he lie there
instead of thee."

July heats stilled the forest leaves; the coal-stacks grew apace. The
charcoal-burners' Jack had hair to his waist and had to hide it in his
cap; the charcoal-burners' beards were six weeks old. There was talk
of nights of a market in Hauterive, where Falve's mother kept a
huckster's shop.




CHAPTER XXII

GALORS CONQUAESTOR


Prosper's aim on leaving High March after his gests of arms had been
Goltres, for there he had believed to find Galors. But Galors was a
man of affairs just now who had gone far since Isoult overheard his
plans. His troop of some sixty spears had grown like the avalanche it
resembled. For what the avalanche does not crush it turns to crushing.
Galors harrying had won harriers. In fact, he headed within a
fortnight of his coming into North Morgraunt a force which was the
largest known since Earl Roger of Bellesme had made a quietness like
death over those parts. By the time of Prosper's exodus, that is by
mid-May, his tactical situation was this--it is as well to be precise.
He had Hauterive and Waisford. Goltres was in the hollow of his hand.
If he could get Wanmeeting he would be master of the whole of the
north forest, west of Wan. Here would be enormous advantage. By a
forced march and a night surprise he might get Market Basing, on the
east side of the river; and if he did that he would cut the Countess
of Hauterive practically off the whole of Morgraunt. Going further, so
far as to cut her off March, whence she drew her supplies, she would
be at his mercy. He could pen her in High March like a sheep, and make
such terms as a sheep and a butcher were likely to arrange.

For, strategically, North Morgraunt would be his; with that to the
good South Morgraunt could await his leisure. The key will show how
the Hauterive saltire stood with the Galors pale.

Now the whole of this pretty scheming was based upon one simple
supposed fact, that the Countess's daughter was then actually in her
mother's castle. Galors knew quite well that he could not hold
Morgraunt indefinitely without the lady. Even Morgraunt was part of
the kingdom; and though rumour of the King's troubles came down, with
wild talk of Aquardente from the north and Bottetort from the south-
west combining to slaughter their sovereign, the King's writ would
continue to run though the king that writ it were under the earth: it
was unlikely that a shire would be let fall to a nameless outlaw when
five hundred men out of Kings-hold could keep it where it was. But a
name would come by marriage as well as by birth. All his terms with
his penned Countess would have been, amnesty and the heiress.

At first he prospered in everything he undertook. Waisford and
Hauterive were under-garrisoned, and fell. Goltres, very remote, was
unimportant except as a base. The Countess at this time, if not
engaged philandering with Prosper, was troubled on the northern
borders. As a matter of fact Galors had been able to secure that no
messengers to High March should cross Wan, and that none from it,
having once crossed, should ever re-cross. This was the state of
affairs when Prosper passed the edge of the High March demesnes and
took the road for Wanmeeting and Goltres.

He had not gone far out of the Countess's borders before he saw what
had happened. The country had been wasted by fire and sword: cottages
burnt out, trampled gardens, green cornlands black and bruised--
desolation everywhere, but no life. Death he did come upon. In one
cottage he saw two children dead and bound together in the doorway; at
a four-went way a man and woman hung from an ash-tree; of a farmstead
the four walls stood, with a fire yet burning in the rick-yard; in the
duck-pond before the house the bodies of the owners were floating amid
the scum of green weed. That night he slept by a roadside shrine, and
next morning betimes took the lonely track again. Considering all this
as he rode, he reached a sign-post which told him that here the ways
of Wanmeeting and Waisford parted company. "Wanmeeting is my plain
road," thought he, "but plainer still it is that of Galors--and not of
Galors alone. I think the longer going is like to be my shorter. I
will go to Waisford." He did so. After a patch of woodland was a sandy
stretch of road fringed with heather and a few pines. A man was
sitting here, by whose side lay his dead young wife with a
handkerchief over her face. Prosper asked him what all this misery
meant; for at High March, he added, they had no conception of it.

The man turned his gaunt eyes upon him. "We call it the hand of God,
sir."

"Do you though? I see only the hand of man or the devil," said
Prosper.

"May be you are in the right, Messire. Only we think that if God is
Almighty He might stay all this havoc if He would. And since He stays
it not we say He winks at it, which is as good as a nod any day."

"You are out, sir," said Prosper. "As I read, God hath given men wits,
and suffers the devil in order that they may prove them. If they fail
in the test, and of two ways choose the wrong, is God to be blamed?"

"Some of us have no such choice. It is hard that the battle of the
wits should be over our acres, and that our skulls should be cracked
to prove which of them be the tougher."

"God is mighty enough to make laws and too mighty to break them, as I
understand the matter," said Prosper. "But who, under God or devil,
hath done this wrong?"

"Sir," said the man, "it is the Lord of Hauterive (so styled), who
hath taken Waisford and destroyed it with the country for ten miles
round about it, and killed all the women who could not run fast
enough, and such of the men as did not run to him. And this he did
upon the admirable conceit that the men, having no women of their own,
would take pains that they should not be singular in the country, but
full of lessons in butchery, would become butchers themselves. It
seems that there was ground for the opinion. As for me, I should
certainly have been killed had he found me, for butchering is not to
my taste--or was not then. But I was on a journey, and came back to
find my house in ashes and my new wife, what you see."

"But who," cried Prosper, "in the name of the true Lord, is your lord
of Hauterive? And how dare he take upon himself the style and fee of
the Countess of Hauterive, Bellesme, and March? I have no reason to
love that lady, but I thought all Morgraunt was hers."

"Morgraunt is hers, and Hauterive, and all the country from March unto
Wanmouth," said the countryman. "But this lord is an outlaw who was
once a monk down at Malbank in the south; and hath renounced his flock
and gathered together a crew as unholy as himself. And the story goes
that he did it all for the sake of a girl who scorned him. Now then he
holdeth Hauterive as his tower of strength, has harried Waisford, and
threatens Wanmeeting town, giving out that he will edge in the lady,
besiege High March itself, wed the Countess, and have the girl (when
he finds her) as his concubine. So he will be lord of all, and God of
no account so far as I can see. And the name of this almighty scamp,
Messire-"

"Is Galors de Born," put in Prosper.

The countryman got up and faced him.

"Are you a fellow of his?" he asked. "For, look you, though I must die
for it, I will die killing."

"Friend," Prosper said gently, "the man is my enemy whom I had thought
disabled longer by a split throat which he got of me. I see I have yet
to deal with him. Tell me now where he is."

"I can tell you no more," said the fellow, "than that his tower is in
Hauterive. He hath guards along the river and a post at Waisford. We
shall have trouble to cross the water. He is said to be for
Wanmeeting; but I know he has High March in his eye, because the girl
he wants is believed to be there. He has been here also, as you see,
God damn him."

"God hath damned him," said Prosper, "but the work is in my hands."

"You will need more than your hands for the business, my gentleman. He
hath five hundred spears."

"The battle is between his and mine nevertheless."

"Then there is the Golden Knight, as they call him, come from hell
knows where; not a fighter but a schemer; and swift, my word! And
cruel as the cold. Will you tackle him?"

"I shall indeed," said Prosper. "Farewell, I am for my luck at
Waisford."

"I would come with you if I might," said the man slowly.

"Come then. Two go better than one against five hundred."

"Let me bury my pretty dead and I am yours, Messire."

"Ah, I will help you there if I may," Prosper replied.

They dug a shallow grave and laid in it the body of the young girl.
Prosper never saw her face, nor did her husband dare to look again on
what he had covered up. Prosper said the prayers; but the other lay on
his face on the grass, and got up tearless. Then they set off.

Five miles below Waisford they swam the river without any trouble from
Galors' outposts: a wary canter over turf brought them to the flank of
the hill; they climbed it, and from the top could see the Wan valley
and what should be the town. It was a heap of stones, scorched and
shapeless. The church tower still stood for a mockery, its conical cap
of shingles had fallen in, its vane stuck out at an angle. Prosper,
whose eyes were good, made out a flag-staff pointing the
perpendicular. It had a flag, _Party per pale argent and sable_.
A dun smoke hung over the litter.

"We shall do little good there," said he; "we are some days too late.
We will try Wanmeeting."

Agreed. They fetched a wide detour to the north-west, climbed the long
ridge of rock which binds Hauterive to the place of their election,
and made way along the overside of it, taking to cover as much as they
could. By six o'clock in the evening they were as near as they dared
to be until nightfall. As they stood they could see the ridge rear its
ragged head to watch over the cleft where-through the two Wans race to
be free. Upon the slope of this bluff was the town itself, a walled
town the colour of the bare rock, with towers and belfries. The
westering sun threw the whole into warmth and mellow light.

"The saltire still floats," cried Prosper; "we are not too late for
this time."

They were let in at dusk by the Martin Gate, not without some parley.
The only word Prosper would give had been, "Death to Galors de Born."
This did not happen to be the right word. Matters were not to be
adjusted either by "Life to the Countess," for Prosper did not happen
to wish it her.

The High Bailiff and the Jurats argued at some length whether what he
had said did not imply the other of necessity.

"If you talk of necessity, gentlemen," finally said the High Bailiff,
"in my advice it is written that our necessity is too fine for
dialectic. Our present need is to kill the common enemy. Here is a
gentleman who asks for no other pleasure. Let him in." And they did.

Prosper was in love at last; but he did not lose his head on that
account. It was not his way. The girl he had first pitied, next
desired, then respected, then learned, finally adored, was gone. Well,
he would find her no doubt. She had but two enemies, Galors and
Maulfry; who hunted in couple just now. She might be anywhere in the
world, but it was most likely that where she was they were also. If he
found them he should find her. That was why, without having any desire
to befriend the Countess, who had in his judgment made a fool of
herself first and an enemy of him afterwards, he undertook the
defences of Wanmeeting.

For it came to that. He found a thin garrison, a pompous bailiff,
wordy and precise, headboroughs without heads, and a panic-stricken
horde of shopkeepers with things to lose, who spent the day in crying
"Danger," and the night in drinking beer. Outside, somewhere, was an
enemy who might be a rascal, but was certainly a man. Professional
honour was touched on a raw. Since he was in, in God's name let him do
something. After a day spent in observing the manners and customs of
Wanmeeting in a state of semi-siege, he got very precise ideas of what
they were likely to be in a whole one. He called on the High Bailiff
and spoke his mind.

"Bailiff," he said very quietly, "your defences are not good, but they
are too good to defend nothing. I am sorry I cannot put your citizens
at a higher figure. There does not seem to me to be a man among them.
They chatter like pies, they drink like fishes, they herd like sheep,
they scream like gulls. They love their wives and children, but so do
rabbits; they are snug at home, but so are pigs in a stye; they say
many prayers, they give alms to the poor. But no prayers will ever
stay Galors, and the alms your people want I spell with an 'r.' I know
Master Galors, and he me. If he comes here the town will be carried,
the men hanged, the women ravished, and I shall be killed like a rat
in a drain. Now I set little store by my life, but I and the man I
have brought with me intend to die in the open. Do what you choose,
but understand that unless things alter to my liking, I take myself,
my sword, and my head for affairs into the country."

"And who are you, Messire, and what do I know of your head for
affairs?" cried the High Bailiff, on his dignity.

"My name is Prosper le Gai, at your service," the youth replied; "and
as for my head, it becomes me not to speak."

"If you will not speak of it, why are you here?" asked the High
Bailiff, at the mercy of his logic.

"I am here, sir, for the purpose of killing Dom Galors de Born."

"You speak very confidently, young gentleman."

"There is no boasting where there is no doubt."

"Is there no doubt, pray, whether he might kill you?"

"I intend to remove that doubt," said Prosper.

"Pray how, sir?"

"By killing him first."

The end of it all was that the High Bailiff, in the presence of the
Jurats and citizens, solemnly girt on Prosper the sword of the
borough, and declared Messire Prosper le Gai of Starning to be
generalissimo of its forces. Prosper at once paraded the garrison.

He rated the men roundly, flogged two of them with his own hand for
some small insubordination, and made fast friends in all ranks. Having
established a pleasant relationship by these simple means, he spoke to
them as follows.

"Gentlemen," he said, "have the goodness to remark that I have taught
you how to parade. In time I doubt not you will follow me with as good
a will as you have hitherto followed your own devices. These, I take
leave to tell you, were very foolish. If you follow me I shall lead
you in the thick of the fighting, should there be any. If you leave
me, or if I have the honour to be killed, you will all have your
throats cut. I do not mean to be killed, gentlemen, and rely upon you
in the alternative which remains."

He took a guard and went the round of the defences. Wherever he went
he brought heart with him. As for the burgesses and the burgesses'
wives, they thought him a god. The result was, that in six weeks he
had half the place under arms, a fighting force of one thousand pikes
and five hundred archers, an outer wall of defence ten feet by six,
and provision to stand a two months' siege. This brought the time to
July.

On July 14 one of his scouts brought home the news that Galors had
concentrated on Hauterive, while keeping close watch along Wan. He
himself was no one knew where, scouring the country for traces of the
girl Isoult la Desirous, who had escaped from High March. Meantime a
detached force under the Golden Knight had surprised Goltres, and put
the inhabitants to the sword. They held that stronghold, and were said
still to be there.

Prosper sent for his horse, and rode down to the council house to see
the High Bailiff.

"Bailiff," he said, "Galors will not be here yet awhile. If he comes
you will know what to do. But I do not think he will come just yet."

"Ah, Messire, will you desert us?" cried the good soul.

"If you put it so, yes."

"You are tired of warfare, Messire?"

"Warfare, pardieu! I am tired of no warfare. I am going to make some
for default of it."

"And leave us all here?"

"And leave you all here."

"Would you have us assume the offensive, sir?"

"By no means, Bailiff. I would have you mind your walls. But forgive
me, I must be off."

"Where are you going, Messire?"

"I am going to find Galors, or at least those who will save me the
trouble. Adieu, Bailiff."

Prosper galloped away as if the devil were in him. The High Bailiff
assumed command.




CHAPTER XXIII

FALVE THE CHARCOAL-BURNER


While Prosper is galloping after Dom Galors, and Dom Galors is
galloping after Isoult, let us turn to that unconscious lady who hides
her limbs in a pair of ragged breeches, and her bloom under the grime
of coal-dust. Her cloud of hair, long now and lustrous, out of all
measure to her pretence, she was accustomed to shorten by doubling it
under her cap. An odd fancy had taken her which prevented a second
shearing. If Prosper loved her she dared not go unlovely any more. Her
hair curtained her when she bathed in the brook and the sun. Beyond
doubt it was beautiful; it was Prosper's; she must keep it untouched.
This gave her an infinity of bother, but at the same time an infinity
of delight. She took pride in it, observed its rate of growth very
minutely; another fancy was, that before it reached her knees she
should give it with all herself to its master. It is so easy to
confuse desires with gratifications, and hopes with accomplishments,
that you will not be surprised if I go on to say, that she soon made
the growth of her hair _data_ by which to calculate her restoration
to his side. She was to have a rude awakening, as you shall judge.

The July heats lay over the forest like a pall, stilled all the leaves
and beat upon the parched ground. Isoult, seduced by the water and her
joy to be alone with her ring, audacious too by use, took longer
leave. So long leave she took one day that it became a question of
dinner. The one solemn hour of the twenty-four was in peril. Falve was
sent to find her, and took his stick. But he never used it; for he
found, not Roy indeed, but Roy's rags on the brookside, and over the
brook on the high bank a lady, veiled only in her hair, singing to
herself. He stood transported, Actaeon in his own despite, then softly
withdrew. Roy got back in his time, cooked the dinner, and had no
drubbing. Then came the meal, with an ominous innovation.

They sat in a ring on the grass round an iron pot. Each had a fork
with which he fished for himself. Down came Falve smirking, and sat
himself by Isoult. He had a flower in his hand.

"I plucked this for my mistress," says he, "but failing her I give it
to my master."

She had to take it, with a sick smile. She had a sicker heart.

The horrid play went on. Falve grinned and shrugged like a Frenchman.
He fed her with his fork--"Eat of this, my minion;" forced his cup to
her lips--"Drink, honey, where I have drunk." He drank deep and,
blinking like a night-bird, said solemnly--

"We have called you Jack, to our shame. Your name shall properly be
called Roy, for you should be a king."

The men made merry over this comedy, finding appetite for it; but to
the girl came back that elfin look she had almost lost since she had
known Prosper. She had worn it the night she came plump on Galors, but
never since. Now again hers were a hare's eyes, wide and quaking.

From that hour her peace left her, for Falve never did. Escape was
impossible; the man eyed her as a cat a mouse, and seemed to play upon
her nerve as if she had been a fine instrument. He became
astonishingly subtle, dealt in images like a modern poet, had the same
art of meaning more than he said to those who had the misfortune to
understand him. He never declared what he knew, though she could not
but guess it; did not betray her to the others; seemed to enjoy the
equivoque, content to wait. So he kept her on tenterhooks; she felt a
cheat, and what is worse, a detected cheat. This filled her deep with
shame. It made her more coy and more a prude than she had ever need to
be had she gone among them kirtled and coifed. At last came the day
when that happened which she had darkly dreaded. A load of coals went
off to Market Basing; to dinner came herself only, and Falve.

She trembled, and could neither eat nor drink. Falve made amends, ate
for three and drank for a dozen. He grew sportive anon. He sang tavern
songs, ventured on heavy play, would pinch her ear or her cheek, must
have her sit on his knee. But at this her fortitude gave way; she
jumped up to shake herself free. There was a short tussle. Her cap
fell off, and all the dusky curtain of her hair about her shoulders
ran rippling to her middle. No concealment could avail between them
now. She stood a maid confessed, by her looks confessing, who watched
him guardedly with lips a-quiver.

Falve did not hesitate to take her hand. "Come and see," he said, and
led her away. Across the brook he showed her a but newly made, covered
with green boughs--his work, it appeared, under the cover of a week of
sweating nights. He led her in, she saw all his simple preparations:
the new-stamped floor, the new-joisted roof, a great bed in the
corner. Then he turned to her and said--

"Your name is not Roy, but Royne. And you shall be queen of me, and of
the green wood, and of this bed."

Isoult began to shake so violently that she could hardly stand.

"How! does not the prospect please you?" said Falve. She could only
plead for time.

"Time?" asked he, "time for what? There is time for all in the forest.
Moreover, you have had time."

"Would you have me wed you, Falve?" she faltered.

"Why, I set no store by your church-music, myself," rejoined Falve.

"But I set great store by Holy Church. You would never dishonour me,
Falve?"

"My dear," said Falve, "you will have guessed by now that I am a
lady's man. I am wax in their pretty hands--red wax or white wax.
According as you squeeze me, my dear, you make me a Golias or a
bishop, as you wish. You would have me a bishop, eh?"

"I do not understand, Falve."

"The husband of one wife, my lass, as the Scripture saith. Is that
your fancy?"

"I would like to be a wife."

"Then a wife you shall be, my honey, though a friend or a bondmaid is
equally good Scripture, to say nothing of simplicity. Now that being
settled, and a bargain a bargain, let us seal."

She escaped with his tarnish on her hand; but he respected her
promise, and troubled her no more by contact. Nevertheless she had to
pay. His dwarfish propensity to wit led him the wildest lengths. The
rogue began to sigh and gesture and slap his ribs. He affected the
lover preposterously; he was over weary of his rough life, he would
say; he must marry and settle down in the hut by the brook.

"And then," he ran on, "thou, Roy, shalt come and live there, serving
me and my wife. For I love thee, boy, and will not leave thee. And I
warrant that she will not be jealous when I play with thee; nor shall
I grudge thy love of her--nay, not if thou shouldst love her as
myself. For thus Moses bade us in the Commandments." And so on. "By
Saint Christopher, that long man of God," he swore at another bout,
"thou and my wife shall sleep in one bed, and I not be dishonoured!"

The other men began to prick up their ears at these speeches, and
looked shrewdly at their boy more than once. As for Isoult, she knew
not where to turn. She seemed to be quavering over an abyss.

Meantime the hour of her wedding, as Falve had appointed it, drew
near. In middle July the whole gang were to go to Hauterive with coal
for the Castle. Falve's mother, I have told you, lived there in a
little huckster's shop she had. Falve's plan was to harbour Isoult
there for the night, and wed her on the morrow as early as might be.
But he told the girl nothing of all this.

They set out, then, betimes in the morning, and by travelling late and
early reached Hauterive in two days. And this in spite of the weather,
which was cold and stormy. The town stands high on the hither shoulder
of that ridge which ends at Wanmeeting, but by reason of the dense
growth of timber in that walk of the forest you do not get a view of
it from below until you are actually under the walls. Isoult, who had
no reason to be interested in any but her own affairs just then, and
was, moreover, wet through and shivering, did not notice the flag
flying over the Castle--_Party per pale argent and sable._ It was
not till the whole caravan stood within the drawbridge that she saw
over the portcullis an escutcheon whereon were the redoubtable three
white wicket-gates, with the legend, _Entra per me._ She realized
then that she was being drawn into the trap-teeth of her grim enemy,
and went rather grey. There was nothing for it, she must trust to her
disguise. It had deceived the colliers, it might deceive Galors. Ah!
but there was Maulfry. It would never deceive her. All the comfort she
could take was that Galors was lord of the town, and she collier's
knave. Now colliers' knaves do not see much of their lords paramount,
nor rulers of cities look into the love-affairs of colliers or seek
for such among them. If Maulfry were there, Heaven help her! But she
began to think she might cope with Galors.

When the asses were unloaded in the inn-yard, and the coal stacked
under cover, Falve took his prisoner by the hand and led her by many
winding lanes to his mother's shop. This was in Litany Row, a crazy
dark entry over against the Dominican convent. The streets and alleys
were empty, the rain coursed down all the gutters of the steep little
town; its music and their own plashy steps were all they could hear.
Knocking at a little barred door in Litany Row, they were admitted by
a wrinkled old woman with wet eyes.

"Mother," said the fellow, "this boy is no boy, but a maid with whom I
intend to marry at cockcrow. Let her sleep with thee this night, and
in the morning dress her in a good gown against I come to fetch her."

The old woman looked her up and down in a way that made the girl
blush.

"Well," she said, "thou art a proper boy enough, I see, and I will
make thee a proper girl, if God hath done His part."

"That He hath done, mother," says Falve with a grin. "See here, then."

With that he pulls off Isoult's green cap. All her hair tumbled about
her shoulders in a fan.

"Mother of God," cried the old woman, "this is a proper girl indeed,
if other things are as they should be, to accord with these tresses."

"Never fear for that, mother," said Falve. "Trust me, she will be a
good wife out and in. For, let alone the good looks of the girl, she
is very meek and doeth all things well, even to speaking little."

"And what is she named, this pretty miss?" asked the crone.

"Tell her your fancy name, wife," said Falve, giving her a nudge;
"show her that you have a tongue in your round head."

"I am called Isoult la Desirous, ma'am," said the girl.

"La, la, la!" cried the old dame, "say you so? The name hath promise
of plenty; but for whose good I say not. And who gave you such a name
as that, pray?"

"I have never known any other, ma'am."

"Hum, hum," mumbled the dame. "I've heard more Christian names and
names less Christian, but never one that went better on a bride."

"Mother, a word in your ear," said Falve.

The couple drew apart and the man whispered--

"Keep her close; let her never out of your sight, that I may marry her
to-morrow, for since I set eyes on her as a maiden whom I first took
to be a boy, I have had no peace for longing after her."

"Have no fear, my son Falve," said his mother, "she shall be as safe
with me as the stone in a peach. I'll get her dry and her natural
shape to begin with, and come morning light, if you have not the
comeliest bride in the Nor'-West Walk, 'twill be the Church's doing or
yours, but none o' mine. Have ye feed a priest, boy?"

"Why, no," said the fellow.

"Seek out Father Bonaccord of the, new Grey Friars. 'Tis the happiest-
go-lucky, ruddiest rogue of a priest that ever hand-fasted a couple.
He'll wed ye and housel ye for a couple of roses. [Footnote: Silver
coins of those parts, worth about three shillings a-piece.] The Black
Friars 'ull take three off ye and tie ye with a sour face at that.
Bonaccord's the man, Brother Bonaccord of the Grey Brothers, hard by
Botchergate."

"Bonaccord for ever!" roared Falve. He blew a kiss to his wife and
went off on his errand.




CHAPTER XXIV

SECRET THINGS AT HAUTERIVE


The first thing the old lady did was to go to an oak chest which was
in the room, and rummage there. With many grunts and wheezes (for she
was eaten with rheumatism) she drew out a bundle done up in an old
shawl. This she opened upon the floor.

"I belonged to a great lady once," said she, "though I don't look like
it, my dear. These fal-lals have been over as dainty a body as your
own in their day; and that was fifteen years ago to a tick. She gave
'em all to me when she took to the black, and now they shall go to my
son's wife. Think of that, you who come from who knows who or where.
If they fit you not like a glove, let me eat 'em."

There were silks and damasks and brocades; webbed tissues of the East,
Coän gauzes blue and green, Damascus purples, shot gold from
Samarcand, crimson stuffs dipped in Syrian vats, rose-coloured silk
from Trebizond, and embroidered jackets which smelt of Cairo or
Bagdad, and glowed with the hues of Byzantium itself. Out of these she
made choice. The girl shed her rags, and stood up at last in a gown of
thin red silk, which from throat to ankle clung close about her shape.
The dark beauty went imperially robed.

"Wait a bit," said her dresser; "we'll look at you presently when you
are shod and coifed to fit."

She gave her a pair of red stockings and Moorish slippers for her
feet; she massed up her black hair into a tower upon her head, and
roped it about with a chain of sequins which had served their last
chaffer at Venice; she girt a belt of filigree gold and turquoise
about her waist, gave her a finishing pat, and stood out to spy at
her.

"Eh, eh! there you go for a jolly gentlewoman," she chuckled, and
kissed her. "Give you a pair of sloe-black eyes for your violets, tip
your nails with henna red, and you'd be a mate for the Soldan of
Babylon in his glory. As you stand you're my bonny Countess Bel warmed
in the blood--as she might have been if Bartlemy had had no vigil
that one year."

They sat to table and ate together. The old dame grew very friendly,
and, as usual with her class, showed a spice of malice.

"There is one here, let me tell you," she said as she munched her
bacon, "even the lord of this town, who would be glad to know his way
to Litany Row before morning." Isoult paled and watched her
unconscious host; she knew that much already. "Yes, yes," she went on,
the old ruminant, "he hath a rare twist for women, if they speak the
truth who know him. There is one he hath hunted high and low, in
forest and out, they say, and hath made himself a lord for her sake,
whereas he was but a stalled ox in Malbank cloister. He hath made
himself a lord, and killed his hundreds of honest men, and now he hath
lost her. He--he!"

The good woman chuckled at her thoughts over all this irony of events.

"I might do son Falve a sorry turn," she pursued, "if I would. I
should get paid for it in minted money, and Saint Mary knows how
little of that has come my way of late. And I dare say that you would
not take the exchange for a robbery. A lord for a smutty collier." She
looked slyly at Isoult as she spoke. The girl's eyes wide with fear
made her change her tune. If the daughter-elect were loyal, loyalty
beseemed the mother.

"What!" she quavered, "you are all for love and the man of your heart
then? Well, well! I like you for it, child."

Isoult's heart began to knock at her ribs. "Can I trust her? Can I
trust her?" she thought; and her heart beat back, "Trust her, trust
her, trust her."

With bed-time came her chance. The old woman, whose geniality never
endangered her shrewdness, bid the girl undress and get into bed
first. The meek beauty obeyed. She was undressed, but not in bed, when
there came a rain of knocks at the door.

"Slip into bed, child, slip into bed," cried the other; "that's a man
at the door."

Isoult, half-dead with fright, once more obeyed. The knocking
continued till the door was opened.

"Who are you, in the name of Jesus?" said the woman, trembling.

"Jesus be my witness, I come in His name. I am Brother Bonaccord,"
said a man without.

"Save you, father," the woman replied, "but you cannot come in this
night. There's a naked maid in the room."

Isoult's plight was pitiable. She could do absolutely nothing but stay
where she was. She dared not so much as cry out.

"If she is a maid, it is very well," said Brother Bonaccord; "but I am
quite sure she is not."

"Heyday, what is this?" cried Falve's mother, highly scandalized.

"Listen to me, Dame Ursula," the friar went on with a wagging finger.
"Your son came with gossip of a marriage he was to make with a certain
Isoult--"

"'Tis so, 'tis so, indeed, father. Isoult la Desirous is her name--a
most sweet maid."

"No maiden at all, good woman, but a wife of my own making."

"Ah, joys of Mary, what is this?"

"Ask her, mistress, ask her."

"I shall ask her, never you fear. Stay you there, father, for your
life."

"Trust me, ma'am."

Dame Ursula went straight up to the bed and whipped off the blankets.
There cowered the girl.

"Tell me the sober truth by all the pains of _Dies Irae_,"
whispered her hostess. "Are you a maiden or none?"

It was a shrewd torment that, double-forked. To deny was infamy, to
affirm ruin. However, there was no escape from it: Isoult had never
been a learned liar.

"I am a maid, ma'am," she said in a whisper.

"Cover yourself warm, my lamb, I'll twist him," said the delighted
mother. She went quickly to the door.

"May our lord the holy Pope of Rome find you mercy, father," she
vowed, "but you'll find none here. The girl has testified against you.
Now will you marry 'em?"

"That I will not, by our Lord," replied the friar.

"There's infamy abroad, and I'll leave it, for it's none of my making.
I wish you good-night, mistress. Bid your son to the Black Brothers.
Saint Dominic may deal with him. Saint Francis was a clean man, and so
must we be clean."

"Then get ye clean tongues lest ye lick others foul, ye brown viper,"
screamed Mrs. Ursula, as he splashed down the kennel.

Isoult was desperate; but luck pointed her one road yet. You will
remember the trinkets round her neck: Prosper's ring was one, the
other was that which old Mald had felt for and found safe in her bosom
on her wedding night. When, therefore, Mrs. Ursula came bridling into
the light full of her recent victory, she saw the girl before her
trembling, and holding out a gold chain at a stretch.

"Lord's name, child, you'll catch your death," cried she. "Slip on
your night-gown and into the bed."

"Trust her now, trust her now," went Isoult's wild heart. "Not yet,
mother," said she, "you must hear me now."

Ursula dropped into a chair. Isoult knelt before her and put the ring
in her old hand.

"Mother, look at this ring," she began, out of breath already, "and
look at me, and then let me go. For with this ring I was wed a year
ago to a certain lord whom I love dearly, and to whom I have never yet
come as a wife. So what I told you was true, and what the Grey Friar
told you was true also, when he said that I was a wife of his wedding.
He wed me to my lord sure and fast to save me from a hanging; but not
for love of me was I taken by my husband, and not for desire of his to
mate his soul to mine. But for love of the love I bore him I dared not
let him come, even when he would have come. We have been a year
wedded, and many days and nights we have wandered the forest and dwelt
together here and there, until now by some fate we are put apart. But
I know we shall come together again, and he whom I love so bitterly
shall set the ring in its place again where he first put it, and
himself lie where now it lies. And so the wound and the pain I have
shall be at last assuaged, and, Love, who had struck me so deep, shall
crown me."

So said Isoult, kneeling and crying. Whatever else she may have
touched in her who listened, she touched her curiosity. The old woman
dropped the ring to look at the girl. True enough, below her left
breast there was a small red wound, and upon it a drop of fresh blood.

Mrs. Ursula took the wet face between her two chapped hands and
laughed at it, not unkindly.

"My bonny lass," said she, "if this be all thou hast to tell me it
will not stay my son Falve. Here in this forest we think little of the
giving of rings, but much of what should follow it. But thy wedding
stopped at the ringing, from what I can learn. That is no wedding at
all. Doubt not this knight of thine will never return; they never do
return, my lassie. Neither doubt but that Falve will wed thee faster
than any ring can do. And as for thy scratch and crying heart, my
child, trust Falve again to stanch the one and still the other. For
that is a man's way. And now get into bed, child; it grows late."

There was nothing for it but to obey. Her game had been played and had
failed. She got into bed and Ursula followed.

Then as she lay there quaking, crying quietly to herself, her heart's
message went on that bid her trust. Trust! What could she trust? The
thought shaped itself and grew clearer every minute; the answer pealed
in her brain. The token! she recalled her mother's words, the only
words she had spoken on her marriage night. "It shall not fail thee to
whomsoever thou shalt show it."

"Help, Saint Isidore!" she breathed, and sat up in the bed.

This made the old woman very cross.

"Drat the girl," she muttered, "why don't she sleep while she can?"

Isoult leaned over her and put the token in her hand. "Look also at
this token, mother, before we sleep," she said.

Mrs. Ursula, grumbling and only half awake, took the thing in one hand
and hoisted herself with the other. She sat up, peered at it in the
light of the cresset, dropped it to rub her eyes, fumbled for it
again, and peered again; she whispered prayers to herself and
adjurations, called on Christ and Christ's mother, vehemently crossed
herself many times, scrambled out of bed, and plumped down beside it
on her two knees.

"Mild Mary," she quavered, "mild Mary, that is enough! That I should
live to see this day. Oh, saints in glory! Let us look at it again."

Isoult drooped over the edge of the bed; Ursula looked and was
astounded, she wondered and prayed, she laughed and cried. Isoult grew
frightened.

"Wed her!" cried the old dame in ecstasy. "Wed the Queen of Sheba
next!" Then she grew mighty serious. She got up and dropped a curtesy.

"It is enough, Princess. He dare not look at you again. At dawn you
shall leave this place. Now sleep easy, for if I hurt a hair of your
head I might never hope for heaven's gate."

She made the girl sleep alone.

"This is my proper station before you, madam," said she, and lay down
on the floor at the foot of the bed.

It was no dream. In the morning she was up before the light. Isoult
found a bath prepared, and in her gaoler of over-night a dresser who
was as brisk as a bee and as humble as a spaniel.

"Old servants are the best," said the crone in her defence; "they're
not so slippery, but they know how things should go on and off. Ah,
and give me a young mistress and a beauty," she went on to sigh, "such
as God Almighty hath sent me this night."

Either Saint Isidore had entered the token, or the token had been
swallowed by Saint Isidore.

When the girl was dressed in her red silk gown of the night before,
with a hood of the same for her head, her red stockings and her red
shoes, she was set at table, and waited upon hand and foot. No
questions were asked, but very much was taken for granted. Ursula had
her finger to her lip every sentence; she wallowed in mystery.

"You are not safe here, Princess," she whispered, "but I will put you
where only safety is for the moment--in Mid-Morgraunt. Affairs, as you
know, are not well where they should be; but as soon as you are
bestowed, I will go forth with that which will make them as bright as
day. I will see one I never thought to face again; I shall win honour
which God knows I am late a-winning. Leave everything to me."

Isoult asked nothing better, for the very sufficient reason that she
knew nothing. Her earth-born habit of taking all things as they came
in order stood her in good part; she had no temptation to ask what all
this meant. But she did not forget to thank the great Saint Isidore
latent in the crystal.

Everything being ready, the old woman threw a long brown cloak over
her charge before they ventured out into the still twilight streets.
The wet was steaming off the ground, but the day promised fair.
Hauterive was nearly empty: they were not challenged at the gate, met
nobody terrific. Once outside the walls they descended a sharp
incline, struck almost immediately a forest path, and in half-an-hour
from that were deep in the dewy woods. Old Ursula held on briskly for
a mile or so in and out of fern and brake. Then she stopped, out of
breath, but beaming benevolence and humility.

"We are safe enough now, madam," she said, and went on to explain,
"Hold you by that path, Princess, until beech and holly end and oaks
begin. Follow the dip of the land, you will come to Thornyhold Brush;
with those you find there you may stay until you know who shall send
for you. That may be likely a week or more, for I am not so young as I
would be, and the roads are thick with Galordians. Now kiss me quickly
if you will stoop so low: it is the last time I shall ask it of you."

Isoult thanked her with sparkling eyes and warm red lips; then she
stood alone in the wood watching her old friend go. Afterwards she
herself took to the path, wondering, but light-hearted and minded to
run.

The spruce Falve, curled and anointed for the bridal, found no wife,
but his mother, who called him a fool, a knave, a notorious evil-liver
and contemner of holy persons. This was hard to bear, for part of it
at least he knew to be quite true. What was harder was, that hitherto
he had always believed his mother of his party. But there is no
pietist like your reformed rake; so Falve left the huckster's shop
vowing vengeance. The day was July 18, and all the town astir, for
Galors de Born and his riders were just in from a raid.




CHAPTER XXV

THE ROAD TO GOLTRES


On July 14 Prosper left Wanmeeting at a gallop, in the driving rain.
There had been thunder and a change in the weather; the roads were
heavy and the brooks brimming; but by noon he was in the plain, and by
night at One Ash, a lonely dead tree as often gallows as not. There he
slept in his cloak. Next morning he was early in the saddle, and had
reached the fringe of Goltres Heath by breakfast time--if the hour
without the thing can be called by such a comfortable name.

He knew there was a cross-road somewhere near by from Goltres to
Hauterive Town. He should go warily, for if the first were invested
there must needs be communications with the base, which was Hauterive.
Sure enough, he had not seen the finger-post before he saw the pikes.
There were three mounted men there, one of whom had his face to the
north and was shading his eyes to spy over the heath. In a dozen more
strides (for he was at no pains to skulk from three troopers) a man
saw him, gave a shout and spurred over the heather. Prosper pulled his
horse into a gallop, resolved to bring things to a quick conclusion.
Spear in rest he came down on his fellow like a gale of wind.

The man swerved at the onset; Prosper rocketed into him; horse and man
went over in a heap. "Bungler," cried Prosper, and went on. The other
two faced him together standing. Prosper drove in between them, and
had one of them off at the cost of a snapt spear. He turned on the
other with his sword whirling round his head.

"Quarter, Messire!" cried the trooper, "here comes one of my betters
for you."

In effect, a knight on a chestnut horse was coming from Goltres, a
most resplendent knight in golden armour, with yellow trappings
slashed and fluttering about him.

"The Gold Knight!" said Prosper, drawing a sharpish breath; "this is
better than I looked for. My man," he went on, turning, "I have
measured you with my eye. I think the sign-post will bear you."

"I have no doubt of it, Messire," said the man ruefully. "You shall
put it to the proof so sure as I live," continued Prosper, "if you
stir from where you stand. I have to speak with your master."

"Oh, make yourself quite easy, Messire, and trust me," said the man;
"I see with whom I have to deal."

"Then deal not with him, my friend," said Prosper, and went to meet
the Golden Knight.

The Golden Knight set spear in rest and came cantering down the track.
Prosper let him come. When he was within hail, "Put up your spear,
dame," said he, "and listen."

The Golden Knight pulled up short, but held his spear couched against
the worst. Prosper spoke again quite cheerfully.

"You and I have met, Dame Maulfry."

"You are speaking foolishness and wasting my time, Messire. I neither
know you nor your dame."

"You may have known my shield in more gaudy trim. Did I not turn
grave-digger for you some years ago?"

"Oh, oh! you are Prosper le Gai?"

"That is my name, Madam Maulfry. You know me at last."

"Yes, I know you. Take care. You are in no friendly country."

"I am a very friendly soul, but I will take care. You, I think, have
many friends in these parts--one in special, a holy person, a man of
religion. Is it so?"

"He is a man of many parts, Prosper. He hath an arm."

"He hath a gullet, I know," said Prosper cheerfully. "It is of him I
would speak, dame, at this moment. I shall meet him before long, I
hope, and should like to be advised by an old acquaintance. Will you
tell me why he chose out the arms of the man you and I put into the
ground?"

"Why would you know that, Prosper?"

"It seems to me an odd choice. There is a story about them. I am
curious."

"What is your story, Prosper? I will tell you this, that I tried to
dissuade him."

"Ah!"

"Well, sir, your story?"

"You told me they were the arms of De Genlis. Surely you were mistaken
in that?"

"I will be frank with you, Prosper. I was mistaken. They are the arms
of Salomon de Montguichet."

"Pardon me, dame," said Prosper, "they are the arms of Salomon de
Born."

He never dealt cleaner blow with a spear. The Golden Knight stood up
rocking in his stirrups. Then he dropped his weapon and began to wail
like a woman.

"Oh no, no, no! Oh, Prosper, be merciful! Oh, God, kill me, kill me,
kill me! Tell me you have lied, Prosper, or I must die."

"I have not lied, madam. You have lied," said Prosper, watching with a
bleak smile.

On a sudden the Golden Knight spurred his horse violently. The beast
lunged forward and shot off at a mad gallop with his flanks streaming
blood. Prosper watched him go.

"Follow! follow!" cried the Golden Knight to the man by the sign-post.

"I cannot, my lord," the man shouted as his master flew, "I am a man
of my word."

"Be off with you, you rascal," cheered Prosper; "I have said my say."

The man did not hesitate. Prosper watched the flying pair, a quiet
smile hovering about his mouth. "My shot told it seems," he said to
himself. "If Salomon de Born were not what I believe him to have been,
what is the grief of Madam Maulfry? Well, we will see next what Galors
de Born has to say to it."

He turned his face towards the north and rode on. If he had followed
the two-out of sight by now--he would have got nearer his heart's
desire; but he could not do that. He had formed a judgment calmly. If
he wanted Isoult he must find Galors. Galors had Hauterive but had not
Goltres. Therefore Galors was at Goltres. Prosper always accredited
his enemies with his own quality. So he rode away from Isoult as proud
as a pope.

We will follow the Golden Knight while our breath endures. We can
track him to Hauterive. He never stayed rein till he reached it, and
there at the gates dropped his chestnut dead of a broken heart. In the
hall of the citadel it was no Golden Knight but a grey-faced old woman
who knelt before Galors in his chair. Her voice was dry as bare
branches.

"If ever you owe me thanks for what I have done and will yet do for
you, Galors, my lover, you shall pay them now. Prosper is at Goltres.
He and Spiridion will be there alone. I give you back Spiridion. Give
me the life of Prosper, give me his head and his tongue, give me his
heart, and I will be your slave who was once your world. Will you do
it, Galors? Will you do it this night?"

"By God I will," said Galors.

"There is one other thing"--the woman was gasping for breath--"one
little thing. Give me back the arms you bear. You must never wear them
again. I always hated them; no good can ensue them. Give them to me,
Galors, and wear them no more."

"By God again," said Galors, "that is impossible! I will never do it.
What! when the whole forest rings with _Entra per me_, and
wicket-gates dazzle every eye on this side Wan? My friend, where are
your wits? That droll of a Montguichet did me a turn there before you
had him, mistress."

"Ah, Galors," was all she could say, "he has found me again. I am sick
of the work, Galors; let me go home."

"Speed me first, my delight," cried Galors, jumping up. He shouted
through the door, "Ho, there! My horse and arms! Turn the guard out!
In three minutes we are off."

The woman crept away. She had worked her hardest for him, but he
wanted nothing of her.

"Dirty weather, by the Rood," said Galors, looking out at the rain.
"Dirty weather and a smell of worse. Hearken to the wind in the
turrets. Gentlemen, we are for Goltres. Spare no horseflesh. Forward!"
and he was gone through the dripping streets at the falling in of a
wild day. It was the day Falve had brought in his bride-expectant to
Litany Row.

Half-an-hour later Maulfry rode out of the east gate alone, and never
held or looked back till she was safe in Tortsentier.




CHAPTER XXVI

GUESS-WORK AT GOLTRES


A scud of wind and rain hampered Prosper on his ride over Goltres
Heath. The steady increase of both in volume and force kept him at
work all day; but towards dusk the wind dropped a little, the clouds
split and drifted in black shreds over a clear sky full of the yellow
evening light. Just at the twilight he came to a shallow mere edged
with reeds, with wild fowl swimming upon it, and others flying swiftly
over on their way to the nest. At the far end of the lake, but yet in
the water, was a dim castle settling down into the murk. A gaunt shell
it was, rather than a habitable place; its windows were sightless
black; only in the towers you could see through them the pale sky
behind. The wind ruffled the mere, little cold waves lapped in the
reeds; there was no other house in sight whichever way you turned. In
all the dun waste of raw and cold it was Goltres or nothing for a
night's lodging.

"Galors has been before me again," thought Prosper. "The place is a
skeleton, the husk of a house. Well, there must be a corner left which
will keep the rain out. We shall have more before day, if I am
anything of a prophet."

There was a huge bank of cloud to windward; the wind came uneasily, in
puffs, with a smell of rain. Prosper's horse shivered and shook
himself from head to heels.

"As I live," cried Prosper suddenly, "there is a light in the house."
In a high window there was certainly a flickering light. "Where
there's a light there's a man or a woman. Where there's one there is
room for two. I am for Goltres if I can win a passage."

Riding up the shore of the lake he found an old punt.

"Saracen," said he to his horse, "I shall take to the water. Thou
shalt go thy will this night, and may heaven send thee the luck of thy
master." So saying he unbridled him, took off his saddle and let him
go, himself got into the punt and pushed out over the mere.

The great hulk of Goltres rose threatening above him, fretted by
little waves, staring down from a hundred empty eyes. He made out a
water-gate and drove his punt towards it. It was open. He pushed in,
found a rotting stair, above it a door which was broken away and
hanging by one hinge.

"The welcome, withal free, is cold," quoth Prosper, "but we cannot
stand on ceremony. It might be well to make sure of my punt." He
manoeuvred it under the stair with some trouble, lashed it fore and
aft, and entered Goltres by the slippery ascent, addressing himself as
he went to God and Saint Mary the Virgin.

The wooden stair led him into a flagged passage which smelt strongly
of fungus. He went down this as far as it would go, found a flight of
stone steps with a swing door a-top, pushed up here, and burst into a
vast hall. It was waste and empty, echoing like a vault, crying
desolation with all its tongues. There seemed to have been wild work;
benches, tables, tressles, chairs, torn up, dismembered and scattered
abroad. There were the ashes of a fire in the midst, some broken
weapons and head-pieces, and many dark patches which looked uncommonly
like blood. Prosper made what haste he could out of this haunted
place; the rats scuttled and squeaked as he traversed it from end to
end.

Beyond its great folding doors he found another corridor hung with the
ribbons of arras; in the midst of it a broad stone staircase. Up he
went three steps at a time, and stood in the counter-part of the lower
passage--a corridor equally flagged, equally gloomy, and smelling
equally of damp and death. There were, so far as he could see, open
doors on either side which stretched for what seemed an interminable
distance. But at the far end was the light he was after; he cared
little how many empty chambers there might be so that there was one
tenanted. He started off accordingly in pursuit of the light. The
passage ran the whole length of the house; the empty doors as he
passed them gave on to bare walls and broken windows. Over many of
them hung thick curtains of cobwebs and dust; white fungus cropped in
the cracks; the rats seemed everywhere. Now and then he caught sight
of a shredded arras on the walls; in one room a disordered bed; on the
floor of another a woman's glove. Never a sight of life but rats, and
never a sound but his own steps, the shrieking of the wind, the rattle
of crazy windows.

The door of the lighted chamber was set open. Prosper stood on the
threshold and looked in.

It was a narrow dusty place heaped with books on tables, chairs, and
floor. The lamp which had beaconed him from over the water was of
brass, and hung from the ceiling by a chain. At the window end sat a
young man with long yellow hair, which was streaked over his bowed
back; he was reading in a Hebrew book. The book was on a reading-
stand, and the young man kept his place in it with his thin finger. He
seemed short-sighted to judge by the space betwixt his nose and his
book. By his side on a little lacquered table was a deepish bowl of
dull red porphyry filled with water. Every now and again the young
man, having secured his place firmly with his finger, would gaze into
the bowl through a little crystal mace which he kept in his other
hand. Then he would fetch a deep sigh and return to his book.

Beyond the man, his bowl, and his books, Prosper could see little else
in the room. There was, it is true, a shelf full of bottles, and
another full of images; but that was all.

Prosper stepped lightly into the room and laid a hand upon the
reader's shoulder. The young man did not start; he carefully recorded
his place before he lifted a thin face from his work to his visitor.
You were conscious of an extravagantly peaked nose, like the beak of
some water-fowl, of the wandering glance of two pale eyes, and of
little else except a mild annoyance.

"What is your pleasure, fair sir?" asked the young man.

"Sir," began Prosper, "I fear I have intruded upon your labours."

"You have," said the young man.

It was an uncompromising beginning. The young man beamed upon him,
waiting.

"Nevertheless, sir," Prosper went on, "I am driven to force myself
upon your hospitality for the night. Your house is large and
apparently roomy. It is dark and wild weather, with a prospect of
tempest. I must sleep here or on the moors."

"Sir," said the other, "you shall be welcome to my poor house, and
that notwithstanding the last guests I harboured murdered everybody in
it but myself. If it had not been for the intercession of a very
charming lady, who has but now left me, I had been dead ere this and
unable to play the host either to her or you. This I say not as
casting any imputation upon you, of whom I am willing to believe as
much as, nay, more than, our limited acquaintance may warrant. Regard
it rather as my excuse for affording you little more than a roof."

"By my faith," said Prosper, "I had believed the castle to be deserted
or sacked. But I am sorry enough to hear that my foreboding was so
near the truth."

"It was a certain lord calling himself Galors de Born, he and his
company, who did these harms upon my house," the young man explained.
"Me too he will assuredly murder before many days. Unless indeed the
lady of whom I spoke just now should return."

"I think I may say that she will not return, and that it will be
better for you if she do not. Galors, too, has other fish to fry. But
if he should happen to come, I pray God that I may be by with a
company to fight at your back." So Prosper.

"If God hear your prayer, which I should have thought more than
dubious," returned his host, "I only hope He may see fit to help you
to a company as well, for I have none. And as to fighting at my back,
I promise you I am a most indifferent leader, being, as you see,
somewhat immersed in other affairs."

Prosper had really very little to say in answer to this. By way of
changing the talk, he asked if the castle were not Goltres.

"You are quite right, sir," replied the other, "it is Goltres; and I
am Spiridion, the lord of Goltres, of a most ancient stock--yet much
at your service."

Prosper bowed to his host, who at once resumed his prying and gazing.
This did not suit the other's temper at all, for he was above all
things a sociable soul. So after a minute he cut in again on another
tack.

"You are a great student, fair sir," said he.

"Yes, I am," said the young man.

"Then may I know what it is you search out so diligently, first in the
book, and then in your bowl of water?"

"Most certainly you may," replied his host. "I seek to find out what
God may be."

Prosper grew grave. "I had thought you a student of fishes," said he,
"but I find you dive deeper. Yet indeed, sir, for my part I think we
had best be content to love and serve God as best we may, discerning
Him chiefly in the voice of honour and in His fair works. Moreover,
Holy Church biddeth us nourish a lively faith. Therefore, as I think,
the harder our understanding of God is to come at, the more abundant
our merit who nevertheless believe."

"That may be so," said the other. "But I can hardly be expected to
love that which I know not, or to believe that which I cannot express.
And as for Holy Church, what Holy Church may consider I know not; but
when you speak of discerning God in honour and fair works, I
understand you, and take up your argument in this manner. For what you
think most eloquent of God may be a beautiful lady."

"God is truly there for me," said Prosper, and thought of Isoult's
good eyes.

"And for me, fair sir," cried his host kindling, "if all women were as
lovely and wise as my friend of late. There indeed was a woman
redolent of God."

"Ah, you are out there, sir," said Prosper; "you are terribly out."

The young man smiled. "Look now, my friend, where we are with our
definitions," said he. "We divide at the onset. Now, say that instead
of a woman, I found a turnip-field the most adorable thing in the
world. Can we both be right? No, indeed. Now my reading tells me of
all the gods whom men have worshipped--of Klepht and Put and Ra; of
Melkarth also, and Bel; of Moloch, Thammuz, and Astarte (a Phoenician
deity). I learn next of the gods of Olympus, of those of Rome and
Etruria; of the Scandinavians, and of many modern gods. Now either
these peoples have made their own gods, in which case I too can make
one; or God hath revealed Himself to some one alone--and then He would
seem to have dealt ungenerously with the others, equally His
creatures, and left blind; or He hath never revealed Himself, which is
against Nature; or He is not. These are the questions I would solve,
if Galors give me time."

"Sir, sir," cried Prosper, "you do but fog yourself to little purpose!
But you should live honestly and sanely, going much abroad, and you
would have no doubts."

"My author," said Spiridion calmly, indicating his Hebrew text, "tells
me that there are one-and-thirty different ways of finding God out. Of
which crystal-gazing, says he in a famous passage, is the readiest.
But as yet I have not found it so. Maybe I shall try yours another
day--if I have another day."

Whereupon, as if reminded of his delaying, he would have turned again
to his work; but Prosper clapped a hand to his shoulder.

"Have done with groping in books, Spiridion," cried he, "and tell me
if you think this a time for such folly, when your life is threatened
by Galors and his riders?"

"It is the time of all times," returned Spiridion; "for if I know not
who is really God of all the host with claims to His rank, how shall I
pray when my visitation comes, or how pray that it come not? It was
for lack of this knowledge that my people were murdered the other day.
So you see that the affair is urgent."

"I think the defence of the house and a long sword would fit your case
better," said Prosper dryly. "Meanwhile, you must forgive me if I
remind you that I have ridden all day without food or rest, and beg of
you to afford me one or the other."

"Ten thousand pardons!" said Spiridion, getting up at once, "that my
little griefs should make me forget your serious claims upon my
hospitality. Come, sir, here are bread and olives, here is a flask of
a very passable wine--all at your service. Afterwards we will share a
bed."

They sat on books, and ate what there was. Outside the wind had
freshened; it buffeted fitfully but fiercely at the window, and came
with dashes of rain. Down the corridor they could hear the casements
swinging and banging, and over all the wind itself roaring through the
great bare passages as if they had been tunnels.

"A wild night, Spiridion," said Prosper. "And what a night," thought
he, "for a surprise."

"Wild enough," replied Spiridion, "but I am indifferent to weather,
being seldom abroad. How do you find this wine?"

"Excellent," said Prosper, and drained his glass.

"Of this Galors, whom I think you know," Spiridion continued, "I hear
bad reports. Not only has he cut the throats of my household, but from
the account given me by my fair friend (concerning whom," he said with
a bow, "we are agreed to differ), I fear he is otherwise of a wild and
irregular conversation."

"You are right there, my friend," laughed Prosper.

"If he murders me," the other went on, sipping his wine, "it will be
on some such night as this."

"I have just said as much to myself," Prosper replied; "but I will do
my best to prevent him, I assure you."

"You are so courteous a defender, fair sir," said Spiridion, "I could
wish you a more worthy client."

Prosper inwardly agreed with him. Shortly afterwards Spiridion bowed
him to bed. For himself he carefully undressed and put on his night-
shirt; then, lying down, he was asleep in a moment. The storm was by
this time a gale, the noise of it continuous out doors and in. Prosper
judged it expedient to have his arms within reach; the more so as he
could not help fancying he had heard the sound of rowlocks on the
mere. He stripped himself therefore to his doublet and breeches,
heaped his armour by the bedside, slung his shield and sword over the
foot, and then lay down by his peaceful companion. He had not
forgotten either to look to the trimming and feeding of the lamp.

Sleep, however, was miles from him in such a pandemonium of noise. The
wind wailed and screamed, the windows volleyed, wainscots creaked,
doors rattled on their locks. Sometimes with a shock like a thunder-
clap the body of the storm hurled against the walls; the great house
seemed to shudder and groan; then there would be a lull as if the
spirits of riot had spent themselves. In one of these pauses Prosper
was pretty sure he heard a step on the stairs. Not at all surprised,
for it was just such a night as he would have chosen, he listened
painfully; but the noise drowned all. Came another moment of recoil,
he heard it again, nearer. He got out of bed, went to the door, opened
it silently, and listened. There were certainly movements in the
house, feet coming up the stairs; he thought to catch hoarse
whisperings, and once the clang of metal. There was no time to lose,
He shut, bolted, and locked the door; then turned to his armour. A
swift step undisguised in the corridor put all beyond question; there
was an attack preparing. He had no time to do any more than snatch up
shield and sword, before he saw the flame of a torch under the door
and heard the voices of men.

Prosper stood sword in hand, waiting.

"Spiridion," he said, "wake up!"

Spiridion moaned, stirred a little, and sank again. A high voice
called out--

"Spiridion, thou thin traitor, open the door and deliver up him thou
harbourest."

The wind shrieked and mocked; then Spiridion woke up with a shiver.

"The hour is come before my God is ready. Now I must die unknowing,"
said he, and sat up in bed with his yellow hair all about his face.

"It is me they seek," said Prosper. "Now then if it will save thee I
will open and go out to them." He went straight to the door, put his
face against the key-hole, and cried out--"If I come out, will ye save
Spiridion alive?"

There followed a babble of voices speaking all at once; afterwards the
same shrill voice took up his challenge, wailing like the wind--
"Spiridion, open the door before we break it in."

Prosper said again--"Will you have me for Spiridion?"

"We will have both, by God," rang a deep note, the voice of Galors.

As if at a signal swords began to batter at the door, pommels and
blades. One pierced the panel and struck through on the inside.
Prosper snapped it off short. "One less," he said; "but they will soon
be done with it."

"My friend," said Spiridion, who was shivering with cold (his night-
shirt being over short for the season), "my friend, I must die. What
can I do for thee? The time is short."

"Brother," answered Prosper, "get a sword and harness, and I will keep
the door till thou art ready. Then we will open it suddenly, and do
what becomes us."

"Dear friend," Spiridion said mildly, "I have no sword. And since I am
to die, I will die as well in my shirt as in a suit of mail."

"Certainly you are a great fool," said Prosper. "Yet I will defend you
as well as I can. Get behind me now, for the door is shaking, and
cannot hold out much longer."

Their assailants, without any further speech among themselves, beat at
the door furiously, or with short runs hurtled against it with their
shoulders. It seemed impossible it should stand, yet stand it did.
Then one, Galors, cried suddenly out, "Fetch a hatchet!" and another
ran helter-skelter down the corridor. The rest seemed to be waiting
for him; the battering ceased.

"Here," said Spiridion, standing in his night-shirt before the shelf
of images, "here are images of Christ on the Cross, of Mahound (made
by a Maltese Jew), of Diana of the Ephesians, and Jupiter Ammon. Here
too, are a Thammuz wrought in jade, and a cat-faced woman sitting
naked in a chair. All are gods, and any one of them may be very God.
Before which should I kneel? For to one I will as surely kneel as I
shall surely die."

Prosper flushed red with annoyance. "Brother," said he, "thou art a
greater fool than I thought possible. Die how you will. God knows how
little of a god am I; but I will do what I can. Hey, now! look about!"
he called out the next minute, and leapt back into the room. The door
split in the midst and fell apart. Two men fully armed, with their
vizors down, burst into the light; they were upon him in a flash.
Prosper up with his shield and drove at them. They were no match for
him with swords, as they very soon found when he penned them back in
the entry. One of the pair, indeed, lost his arm in the first passes
of the game, but the press of men behind forced them suddenly and
violently forward whether they would or no. Prosper skewered one of
them like a capon, against his own will, for he knew what must happen
of that. Precisely; before he could disengage his weapon two more were
at him in front, and one dodging round behind him with the hatchet
slogged at his head with the back of it. Prosper tottered; it was all
up with him. Another assailant slipped in under his guard with a pike,
which he drove into his ribs. A second stinging blow from the hatchet
dropped him. Prone on his face he fell, and never knew of the
trampling he had from the freed pass.

They cut down and slew Spiridion as he was kneeling in his shirt
before the crucifix; and then Galors came into the room to see that
the work was done.

Prosper was lying on his face as he had fallen, with a great hole in
his head. Galors suffered a contempt which he could not afford to such
an enemy. He kicked the body. "Rot there, carrion," he said; then,
with an after-thought, "No--rot in the water. Throw the pair of them
by the window," he ordered his men, "and wait outside the gates for,
me. I have things to do here." This was done.

When he was alone he stripped off all his armour, and put on instead
Prosper's equipment. The defaced shield vexed him. Nothing was left of
the blazon; nothing was left at all but the legend, "_I bide my
time._"

"That, is what I will do no longer," said Galors with a heavy oath. "I
have bided long enough; now, friend Prosper, do you bide yours. As for
the cognizance, I know it very well by this; it shall be on again by
the morning. Then we will see if I can do as Prosper what I have
failed to do as Galors."

He headed his troop for Hauterive, reached it before daylight, and
ended (as he thought) a signal chapter in his progress. As for
Prosper, he bided his time with a broken head in Peering Pool.




CHAPTER XXVII

GALORS RIDES HUNTING


On the morning after the storm at Goltres, July 18, Galors sat in the
hall of his stronghold habited as he had ridden in but a few hours
before. In came a red-haired peasant, asking to be made his man.

"Why so, fellow?" asked Galors.

"Lording," said Falve, "because my mother hath done me a wrong."

"Why, thou dog?" cried Galors. "Would'st thou cut thy mother's throat
under my flag?"

"Lording," Falve answered, "I would not cut my mother's throat under
the Pope's flag. But I know thee to be a great lord, master of all
these walks of Morgraunt. If I were made free of thy company I could
ask thee a mercy; and if I asked thee a mercy it would be that thou
should'st order my mother to give me back my wife."

"How, thy wife, rogue?" said Galors, who was weary of the man.

"Lording, she was to have been my wife this day. But she lay last
night with my mother, and by the show of a certain token, which
unknown to me she wore about her, prevailed upon my mother to let her
go. So now she has escaped into the forest, and I am beggared of her
without thy help."

By this Galors was awake. He leaned forward in his chair, put chin to
hand, and asked quietly--"How was she called, this wife of thine, my
knave?"

"Lording," replied the poor eager rogue, "she was a boy at first,
called Roy; then she revealed herself a maiden."

"I asked her maiden name, red fool."

"Her name, my lording, was Isoult la Desirous."

"Ah! At last!"

He got up from his chair, saying shortly, "Take me this instant to thy
mother."

"But lord--"

"Silence, lout, or I swing you sky-high. To your mother without a
word."

Poor Falve, in a cold sweat, obeyed. They found the old lady making
breathless preparations for departure.

"Mother," began Falve, "my Lord Galors--"

"Peace, fool!" broke in Galors. "Dame," he said civilly, "I must thank
you for the great charge you have been at with a certain lady much in
both our hearts. No doubt she has spoken to you of Messire Prosper le
Gai. Madam, I am he."

"As God is great," Falve cried, "I could have sworn the lord of this
town was Messire Galors de Born."

"And so he was but yesterday," said Galors. "But now I hold it for the
Countess Isabel."

The old woman was convinced at this name. She caught Galors by the
arm.

"And will you take back the lamb to the dam?" she bleated.

"That is all I ask," replied Galors, speaking the truth.

"You may catch her, Messire--you may catch her. Ah, if I could only
have known of you yester-e'en! She's had but seven hours' start of
you. Take the path for Thornyhold Brush, and you'll find her. Jesu
Christ! when I saw the bleeding bird again I could have died, had
there not been better work before me."

"The bleeding bird? Ah! the token, you would say."

"Yes, Messire, yes! The pelican in piety--the torn breast! The I and
F. Ah! blood enough shed, blood enough. Go quickly, Sir Prosper, and
testify for your name; 'tis of good omen and better report. And have
you killed that sick wolf Galors, Messire? There, there, God will
bless you for that, and prosper you as you have prospered us!"

Galors swallowed the pill and went out with no more ceremony. Falve
ran after him.

"Eh, eh, Messire!" he spluttered. Galors let him splutter till they
were within the courtyard. Then he called to a trooper.

"Take this man and flog him well," said he. Falve was seized.

"Ah, my lording," cried he, "what do you there? Must I be flogged
because I have lost my wife?"

"No, dog. But because you have married mine."

"Nay, nay, mercy, my lording! I have not yet married her."

"Ha!" said Galors, "then you shall be flogged for jilting her."

And flogged he was. And the flogging cost Galors his prize.

Galors now bestirred himself. First he sat down and wrote a letter to
the Countess, thus conceived.

"To the high lady, the Lady Isabel de Forz, Countess of Hauterive,
Countess Dowager of March and Bellesme, Lady of Morgraunt--Galors de
Born, Lord of Hauterive, Goltres, and West Wan, sendeth greeting in
the Lord everlasting.

"That which your Serenity lost early is not too late found, and by us.
The crystal locket, having the pelican in the Crown of Thorns, when we
bring it upon the bosom where it hath ever slept waiting for the day
which shall reveal it to you, will testify whether we lie or lie not.
Know, however, that she shall assuredly come, and not unattended; but
as, befits her condition, under the hand of him who, having found her,
will provide that she be not lost again. It is not unknown to you,
High Mightiness, how our power and estate have grown in these days to
the threatening of your own. So it is, indeed, that now, in blood, in
fees, in renown, in power of life and member, we are near enough to
you to seek alliance still more close. And this is the last word of
Galors; let the wearer of the crystal locket come home as the
betrothed of the Lord Galors de Born, and heiress of High March and
Morgraunt, Countess of Hauterive in time to be, and she shall come
indeed. Otherwise she comes not; but Hauterive wears the crown which
High March looks to put on. Thus we commend you to the holy keeping of
God. From our tower of Hauterive, on the feast of Saint Arnulphus,
bishop and martyr, the 15th calends of August, in the first year of
our principality West of Wan."

This letter, sealed with the three wicket-gates and the circumscript,
_Entra per me_, he sent forward at once by a party of six riders,
one of whom carried a flag of truce. Then with but three to follow
him, he rode out of the town, taking the path for Thornyhold Brush.




CHAPTER XXVIII

MERCY WITH THE BEASTS


Isoult, so soon as she had seen the last of old Ursula, turned her
face to the south and the sun. She walked a mile through bush and
bramble with picked-up skirts; then she sat down and took off her
scarlet shoes and stockings, threw them aside, and went on with a
lighter tread. Not that she was above the glory of silk robes and red
slippers, or unconscious that they heightened the charm of her person
--the old woman's glass, the old woman's face had told her better than
that. Indeed, if she could have believed she would meet with Prosper
at the end of that day, she would have borne with them, hindrance or
none. But this was not to be. Her hair was yet a good six inches from
her knees. So now, bare-legged and bare-footed, her skirts pulled back
and pinned behind her, she felt the glad tune of the woods singing in
her veins, and ran against the stream of cool air deeper into the
fountain-heart whence it flowed, the great silence and shade of the
forest. The path showed barer, the stems more sparse, the roof above
her denser. Soon there was no more grass, neither any moss; nothing
but mast and the leaves of many autumns. Keeping always down the
slope, and a little in advance of the sun, by mid-day she had run
clear of the beech forest into places where there grew hornbeams, with
one or two sapling oaks. There was tall bracken here, and dewy grass
again for her feet. She rested herself, sat deep in shade listening to
the murmur of bees in the sunlight and the gentle complaining of wood-
pigeons in the tree-tops far toward the blue. She lay down luxuriously
in the fern, pillowed her cheek on her folded hands, closed her eyes,
and let all the forest peace fan her to happy dreaming. It was
impossible to be ill at ease in such a harbour. The alien faces and
brawl of the town, the grime, the sweat, the blows of the charcoal-
burners, her secret life there in the midst of them, the shame, the
hooting and the stunning of her last day at distant High March,
Maulfry, Galors, leering Falve--all these grim apparitions sank back
into the green woodland vistas; all the shocks and alarums of her
timid little soul were subdued by the rustling boughs and the crooning
voices of the doves. She saw bright country in her dreams. Prosper was
abroad on a spurred horse; his helmet gleamed in the sun; his enemies
fell at his onset. The deer browsed about her, from the branches a
squirrel peeped down, the woodbirds with kindly peering eyes hopped
within reach of her cradled arms. Soon, soon, soon, she should see
him! She would be sitting at his knees; her cheek would be on his
breast, his arm hold her close, his kind eyes read all her love story.
What a reward for what a little aching! She fell asleep in the fern
and smiled at her own dreams. When she awoke two girls sat sentinel
beside her.

They were ruddy, handsome, cheerful girls, with scarcely a pin's point
of difference between them. They had brown eyes, brown loose hair, the
bloom of healthy blood on their skin. One was more fully formed, more
assured; perhaps she laughed rather less than the other; it was not
noticeable. Isoult, with sleepy eyes, regarded them languidly, half
awake. They sat on either side of her; each clasped a knee with her
two hands; both watched her. Then the elder with a little laugh shook
her hair back from her shoulders, stooped quickly forward, and kissed
her. Isoult sat up.

"Oh, who are you?" she wondered.

"I am Belvisée," said the kissing girl.

"I am Mellifont," said the laugher.

"Do you live here?"

"Yes."

"Is this Thornyhold?"

"Thornyhold Brush is very near."

"Will you take me? I am to wait there."

"Come, sister."

Belvisée helped her up by the hand. When she was afoot Mellifont
caught her other hand and kissed her in her turn--a glad and friendly
little embrace. Friends indeed they looked as they stood hand-linked
in the fern. All three were of a height, Isoult a shade shorter than
the sisters.

She contrasted her attire with theirs; her own so ceremonious, theirs,
what there was of it, simple in the extreme. A smock of coarse green
flax, cut at a slant, which left one shoulder and breast bare, was
looped on to the other shoulder, and caught at the waist by a leather
strap. It bagged over the belt, and below it fell to brush the knees.
Arms, legs, and feet were bare and brown. Visibly they wore nothing
else. Mellifont laughed to see the scrutiny.

"We must undress you," she said.

"Why?"

"You cannot run like that."

"No, that is quite true. But----"

"Oh," said Belvisée, "you are quite safe. No men come where the king
is."

"The king!"

"King of the herd."

"Ah, the deer are near by."

"All Thornhold is theirs. The great herd is here."

"Do you live with them?"

"Yes."

"And they feed you?"

"Yes."

"Ah," said Isoult, "then I shall be at peace till my lord comes, if
there are no men."

"Have you a lord, a lover?"

"Yes, he is my lord, and I love him dearly."

"We have none. What is your name?"

"I am called Isoult la Desirous."

"Because you are a lover?"

"Yes. I am a lover."

"I will never love a man," said Belvisée rather gravely. "All men are
cruel."

"I will never have a lover, nor be a lover, until men know what love
is," said Mellifont in her turn.

"And what is love, do you think?" Isoult asked her thrilling.

"Love! Love! It is service," said Belvisée.

"Service and giving," said Mellifont.

Isoult turned aside and kissed Mellifont's cheek.

They had reached the low ground, for they had been walking during this
colloquy. Oaks stood all about them, with bracken shoulder high. Into
this the three girls plunged, and held on till they were stopped by a
shallow brook. The sisters waded in, so did Isoult when she had picked
up her skirts and petticoats. After a little course up stream through
water joyfully cool they reached a place where the brook made a bend
round the roots of an enormous oak; turning this they opened on a pool
broad and deep.

"We will robe you here," said Belvisée, meaning rather to unrobe her.

The great gnarly roots of the oak were as pillars to a chamber which
ran far into the bank. Here the two girls undressed Isoult, and here
they folded and laid by her red silk gown. She became a pearly copy of
themselves in all but her hair. Her hair! They had never seen such
hair. Measuring it they found it almost to her knees.

"You cannot go with it loose," said they. "We must knot it up again;
but we will go first to the herd."

"Let us go now," added Mellifont on an impulse, and took Isoult by the
hand.

Crossing the brook below the pool, they climbed the bank and found
themselves in a sunny broad place. The light glanced in and out of the
slim grey trees. The bracken was thinner, the grass rich and dewy.
Here Isoult saw the great herd of red deer--hundreds of hundreds--
hinds and calves with some brockets and harts, busy feeding. Over all
that spacious glade the herd was spread out till there seemed no end
to it.

A sentinel stag left feeding as they came on. He looked up for a
moment, stamped his foot, and went back to grass. One or two others
copied him; but mostly the three girls could go among them without
notice. Imperceptibly, however, the herd followed them feeding on
their way to the king, so that by the time they reached him there was
a line of deer behind them, and deer at either flank.

The great hart also stamped his foot and stood at gaze, with towering
antlers and dewy nostrils very wide. Before him Belvisée and Mellifont
let go of Isoult's hand: she was to make her entry alone. She put them
behind her back, hardly knowing what was expected of her, shrank a
little into herself and waited timidly. Slowly then the great hart
advanced before his peering courtiers, pacing on with nodding head and
horns. Exactly in front of Isoult he planted his forefeet, thence he
looked down from his height upon her. She had always loved the deer,
and was not now afraid; but she covered herself with her hair.

The king stag smelt her over, beginning at her feet. He snuffed for a
long time at the nape of her neck, blew in her hair so as to spray it
out like a fountain scattered to the wind; then he fell to licking her
cheek. She, made bold, put a hand and laid it on his mane. Shyly she
stood thus, waiting events. The great beast lifted his head high and
gave a loud bellow; all the deer chorused him; the forest rang. So
Isoult was made free of the herd.

Belvisée and Mellifont lay beside her on the grass. Isoult lay on her
face, while Mellifont coiled and knotted up her hair.

"If love is giving, and you are a lover, Isoult," said she, "you would
give your hair."

"I have given it," said Isoult, and told them her story as they all
lay there together.

"And to think that you have endured all this from men, and yet love a
man!" cried flushed Mellifont, when she had made an end.

But Isoult smiled wisely at her.

"Ah, Mellifont," she said, "the more you saw of men, the more you
would find to love in him."

"Indeed, I should do no such thing," said Mellifont, firing up again.

"You could not help it. Everyone must love him."

"That might not suit you, Isoult," said Belvisée.

"Why should it not? Would it prevent my love to know him loved? I
should love him all the more."

"Hark!" cried Mellifont on a sudden. She laid her ear to the ground,
then jumped to her feet.

"Come to the herd, come to the herd," she whispered.

Belvisée was on her feet also in a trice. Both girls were hot and
bright.

"What disturbs you?" asked Isoult, who had heard nothing.

"Horsemen! quick, quick." They all ran between the trees to regain the
deer. Isoult could hear no horses; but the sisters had, and now she
saw that the deer had. Every head was up, every ear still, every
nostril on the stretch. Listening now intently, faint and far she did
hear a muffled knocking--it was like a beating heart, she thought.
Whatever it was, the deer guessed an enemy. Upon a sudden stamp, the
whole herd was in motion. Led by the hart-royal, they trotted
noiselessly down the wood, till in the thick fern they lay still. The
girls lay down with them.

The sound gained rapidly upon them. Soon they heard the crackling of
twigs, then the swish of swept brushwood, then the creaking of girths.
Isoult hid her face, lying prone on her breast.

Galors and his men came thundering through the wood. Their horses were
reeking, dripping from the flanks. The riders, four of them, looking
neither right nor left, past over the open ground, where a few minutes
before she whom they desperately sought had been lying at their mercy.
But Galors, fled by all things living in Morgraunt, scourged on like a
destroying wind and was gone. Isoult little knew how near she had been
to the unclean thing. If she had seen him she would have run straight
to him without a thought, for he bore the red feathers in his helmet,
and behind him, on the shield, danced in the glory of new gilt the
_fesse dancettée_.

It may be doubted if the instincts of the earth-born can ever pierce
the trappings of a knight-at-arms. They trust in emotions which such
gear is designed to hide or transfigure. Isoult, observe, had caught
Prosper out of his harness, when before the face of the sky she had
thrilled him to pity. But when once he had stooped to her, for the
very fact, she made haste to set him up on high in her heart, and in
more seemly guise. There and thenceforward he stood on his pedestal
figured, not as a pitiful saviour (whom a girl must be taught to
worship), but as an armed god who suffered her homage. She was no
better (or no worse, if you will) than the rest of her sex in this,
that she loved to love, and was bewildered to be loved. So she would
never get him out of armour again. Her god might not stoop.




CHAPTER XXIX

WANMEETING CRIES, 'HA! SAINT JAMES!'


The story returns to Prosper le Gai and his broken head. The blow had
been sharp, but Peering Pool was sharper. It brought him to
consciousness, of a sort sufficient to give him a disrelish for
drowning. Lucky for him he was unarmed. He found himself swimming,
paddling, rolling at random; he swallowed quantities of water, and
liked drowning none the better. By the little light there was he could
make out the line of the dark hull of Goltres, by the little wit he
had he remembered that the water-gate was midway the building or
thereabouts. He turned his face to the wall and, half clinging, half
swimming, edged along it till he reached port. The last ebb of his
strength sufficed to drag him up the stair; then he floated off into
blankness again.

When he stirred he was stiff, and near blind with fever. A cold light
silvered the pool; it was not yet dawn. His plight was pitiable. He
ached and shivered and burned, he drowsed and muttered, dreamed
horribly, sweated and was cold, shuddered and was hot. One of his arms
he could not lift at all; at one of his sides, there was a great stiff
cake of cloth and blood and water. He became light-headed, sang,
shouted, raved, swore, prayed.

"To me, to me, Isoult! Ah, dogs of the devil, this to a young maid!
Yes, madam, the Lady Isoult, and my wife. Love her! O God, I love her
at last. Hounded, hounded, hounded out! Love of Christ, how I love
her! Bailiff, Galors will come--a white-faced, sullen dog. Cut him
down, bailiff, without mercy, for he hath shown no mercy. The man in
the wood--ha! dead--Salomon de Born. Green froth on his lips--fie,
poison! She has killed Galors' only son. Galors, she has poisoned him
--oh, mercy, mercy, Lord, must I die?" And then with tears, and the
whining of a child--"Isoult, Isoult, Isoult!"

In tears his delirium spent itself, and again he was still, in a
broken sleep. The sun rose, the sky warmed itself and glowed, the
crispy waves of Peering Pool glittered, the white burden it bore
floated face upwards, an object of interest and suspicion for the
coots; soon a ray of generous heat shot obliquely down upon the
sleeper on the stairs. Prosper woke again, stretched, and yawned. Most
of his pains seemed now to centre in the pit of his stomach, a
familiar grief. Prosper was hungry.

"Pest!" said the youth, "how hungry I am. I can do nothing till I have
eaten."

He tried to get up, and did succeed in raising himself on all fours.
But for the life of him he could do no more. He sat down again and
thought about eating. He remembered the bread and olives, the not
unkindly red wine of the night before. Then he remembered Spiridion,
dispenser of meat and many questions.

"That poor doubting rogue!" he laughed. But he sobered himself. "I do
ill to laugh, God knows! The man must be dead by now, and all his
doubts with him. I must go find him. But I must eat some of his bread
and olives first."

Once more he got on all fours, and this time he crawled to the stop of
the stairway. Clinging to the lintel and hoisting himself by degrees,
he at last stood fairly on his feet--but with a spinning head, and a
sickness as unto death. He tottered and flickered; but he stuck to his
door-post.

"Bread and olives!" he cried. "I am to die, it seems, but by the Lord
I will eat first."

He made a rush for it, gained so the great hall, dizzied through it
somehow, and out into the corridor. He flung himself at the stone
stairs with the desperation of his last agony, half crawled, half
swarmed up to the top (dragging his legs after him at the end, like a
hare shot in the back), and finished his course to Spiridion's chamber
on hands and knees. He had probably never in his life before worked so
hard for a breakfast. He was dripping with sweat, shaking like
gossamer; but his fever had left him. Bread and a bottle of wine did
wonders for him. He felt very drunk when he had done, and was
conscious that pot-valiancy only gave him the heart to tear off his
clothes. A flask of sweet oil from Spiridion's shelf helped him here.
Next he probed the rents. He found a deepish wound in the groin, a
sword-cut in the fleshy part of his left arm; then there was his head!
He assured himself that the skull was whole.

"I never respected my ancestors before," he cried. "Such a headpiece
is worthy of a Crusader."

He kindled a fire, heated water, washed out his hurts, oiled them and
bound them up with one of Spiridion's bed-sheets.

"Now," he reflected, "by rights I should go and hunt for my poor host.
But I am still drunk unfortunately. Let me consider. Spiridion must
pass for a man. If he is dead he will wait for me. If he is not dead
he is no worse off than I am. Good. I will sleep." And he slept round
the clock.

Next morning when he awoke he was stiff and sore, but himself. He
finished the bread, drank another bottle of wine, and looked about for
his armour. It was not there. Instead, the white wicket-gates gleamed
at him from a black shield, white plumes from a black headpiece, and
the rest of a concatenation.

"_Entra per me_," he read. "Enter I will," said Prosper, "and by
you. This device," he went on, as he fitted the _cuisses_, "this
device is not very worthy of Dom Galors. It speaks of hurry. It
speaks, even, of precipitation, for if he must needs wear my harness,
at least he might have carried his own. Galors was flurried. If he was
flurried he must have had news. If, having news, he took my arms, it
must have been news of Isoult. He intended to deceive her by passing
for me. Good; I will deceive his allies by passing for himself. But
first I must find Spiridion."

He had too much respect for his enemy, as you will observe if I have
made anything of Galors. Galors was no refiner, not subtle; he was
direct. When he had to think he held his tongue, so that you should
believe him profound. When he got a thought he made haste to act upon
it, because it really embarrassed him. None of Prosper's imaginings
were correct. If the monk had been capable of harbouring two thoughts
at a time, there would not have been a shred of mail in the room.

That sodden thing lipped by the restless water was Spiridion. He lay
on his back, thinner and more peaked than ever in life; his yellow
hair made him an aureole. He looked like some martyred ascetic, with
his tightened smile and the gash half-way through his neck.

Prosper leaned upon his punt-pole looking sorrowfully at him.

"Alas, my brother," he said half whimsically, "do you smile? Even so I
think God should smile that He had let such a thing be made. And if,
as I believe, you know the truth at last, that is why you also smile.
But shut your eyes, my brother," he added, stooping to do the office,
"shut your eyes, for you wore them thin with searching and now can see
without them. Let them rest."

Very tenderly he pulled him out of the water, very reverently took
him to land. He buried him before his own gates, and over him set the
crucifix, which in the end he had found grace to see. He was too good
a Christian not to pray over the grave, and not sufficient of a hero
to be frank about his tears. At the end of all this business he found
his horse. Then he rode off at a canter for Hauterive.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is one thing to kindle military fires in the breast of a High
Bailiff, quite another to bid them out. Prosper had overstepped his
authority. The High Bailiff of Wanmeeting held himself in check for
the better part of a week after his generalissimo's departure; at the
end of five days he could endure it no more. His harness clamoured,
his sword tarnished for blood; he had fifteen hundred men in steel.
That would mean fifteen hundred and one tarnishing blades, and the
unvoiced reproaches of fifteen hundred and one suits of mail. In a
word, the High Bailiff itched to try a fall with the redoubtable
Galors de Born.

He sent, therefore, a man to ring the great bell of the parish church.
This assembled the citizens pell-mell, for the times were stirring.
The High Bailiff, being assured of his auditory, summoned the
garrison, put himself at the head of them on a black stallion, sounded
trumpets, and marched into the Market-place. The cheers clipped him
like heady wine; but it was the eloquence of the women's handkerchiefs
that really gave him heart. Standing in his stirrups, hat in hand, he
made a short speech.

"Men of Wanmeeting and brothers," he said, "to-day you shall prove
yourselves worthy of your Lady Paramount, of your late master, and of
me. Galors de Born, the arch-enemy, is skulking in his strong tower,
not daring to attack us. Men of Wanmeeting, we will go and bait him.
Hauterive is ours. Follow me, crying, Ha! Saint James!"

"Ha! Saint James!" shouted the men, with their caps pike-high.

The Bailiff glowed in his skin. He drew his sword.

"Forward!" He gave the word.

The entire ardent garrison marched out of the town, and Wanmeeting was
left with its women and elders, anybody's capture.

The consequence of these heroical attitudes was, that Prosper, riding
hard to Hauterive, came in sight of a besieging army round about it--a
tented field, a pavilion, wherefrom drooped the saltire of De Forz, a
long line of attack, in fine, a notable scheme of offence. He saw a
sortie from the gates driven back by as mettlesome a cavalry charge as
he could have wished to lead.

"The Bailiff of Wanmeeting, as I live by bread!" he cried out.

He stayed for some time watching the fray from a little rising ground.
The cavalry, having beaten in the defenders, retired in good order;
the archers advanced to cover a party of pikemen with scaling-ladders.

"Now is my time to board the Bailiff," said Prosper, and rode coolly
across the field.

The High Bailiff saw, as he thought, Galors himself riding unattended
towards him.

"Ha! negotiations," said he; "and in person! I have hit a mark it
seems. I may take a high tone. Unconditional surrender and all arms,
hey?"

Prosper rode up, saluting.

"Messire de Born," said the Bailiff.

"Prosper le Gai," said the other.

"Madam Virgin! I thought you had perished, Messire."

"Not at all, Bailiff. Was that why you took over my command?"

The Bailiff bowed. "I gladly relinquish it, Messire."

Prosper nodded pleasantly.

"That last charge of yours could hardly have been bettered, though I
think you might have got in. How many men did you drop?"

"Ten, Messire. We brought off the wounded."

"Ten is enough. You shall lose no more. Call off that scaling party."

The Bailiff repeated the order.

"Your men know their work," said Prosper; "but why do they cry for
Saint James?"

The High Bailiff coloured.

"Well, Messire," he said, "there is undoubtedly a Saint James, an
Apostle and a great Saint."

"Of the greatest," said Prosper. "But, pardon. I thought your burgh
was devoted to Saint Crispin?"

"Messire, it is so. But there were reasons. First, your battle-cry
should be familiar----"

"As Saint Crispin to Wanmeeting?"

"As the name of James, Messire. For it is my own poor name."

"Ah," said Prosper, "I begin to see."

"Then," said the Bailiff, pursuing his reasons, "a battle-cry should
be short, of one syllable----"

"Like Saint Dennis?" Prosper asked.

"Like Saint George, Messire."

"Or Saint Andrew?" said Prosper sweetly.

"Or--"

Or Montjoy, or Bide the Time, eh, Bailiff?"

"Messire, you have me at a disadvantage for the moment. The name is,
however, that of a Saint."

"Say no more, Bailiff, but listen. There need be no more bloodshed
over this place. Get your men together, to advance at a signal from
within. I will go alone into the town. Now, do you notice that little
square window in the citadel? When you see the Saltire hang there you
will march in and meet me at the Bishop's Gate."

"Oh, Messire, what will you do?"

"Leave that to me," Prosper said, as he rode off.

He rode close to the moat and kept by it, making a half circuit of the
walls. He had calculated on Galors' armour, and calculated well, for
nobody molested him from the defenders' side. At the Bishop's Gate he
reined up, and stood with his spear erect at the length of his arm.

"Who comes?" cried the sentry.

"_Entra per me_," growled Prosper, with a shot for Galors' sulky
note.

The gate swung apart, the bridge fell, the portcullis was drawn up.
Prosper rode through the streets of Hauterive amid the silence of the
inhabitants and the cheers of the garrison--two very different sets of
persons. He went into the citadel, displayed the appointed signal,
then returned on horseback to the Bishop's Gate. He had not a word to
say, but this was quite in character. So he stood waiting.

There was presently a fine commotion at the gate; a man came running
up to him.

"Messire, they are going to attack the gate!"

"Open it," said Prosper.

"Messire?"

"Open it, hound!"

The man reeled, but carried the order. Prosper rode stately out; and
when he returned a second time it was at the head of the Countess
Isabel's troops.

"Bailiff," said he, when they were in the citadel and all the news
out, "I am no friend of your mistress, as you know; but I am not a
thief. Hauterive is hers. To-morrow morning I shall declare it so;
until then Galors, if you please, is Lord. Let me now say this," he
continued. "I admire you because you have a high heart. But you lack
one requisite of generalship, as it appears to me. You have no head.
Get back at once to Wanmeeting with one thousand of your men, and
leave me five hundred of them to work with. You may think yourself
lucky if you find one stone on another or one man's wife as she should
be. By the time you are there you will no doubt have orders from High
March. You may send news thither that this place is quiet and
restored, as from to-morrow morning, to its allegiance. Good morning,
Bailiff"

The Bailiff was very much struck with Prosper's sagacity, and went at
once. Prosper and his five hundred men held the citadel.

He confided his secret to those whom he could trust; the remainder
fraternized in the wine shops and dealt liberally in surmise. The
general opinion seemed to be that Galors had married the Countess
Isabel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having thus ridded him of all his charges, Prosper could steer the
ship of his mind whither his soul had long looked--to Isoult and
marriage. Marriage was become a holy thing, a holy sepulchre of peace
to be won at all costs. No crusader was he, mind you, fighting for
honour, but a pitiful beaten wayfarer longing for ease from his
aching. He did not seek, he did not know, to account for the change in
him. It had come slowly. Slowly the girl had transfigured before him,
slowly risen from below him to the level of his eyes; and now she was
above him. He shrined her high as she had shrined him, but for
different reasons as became a man. What a woman loves in man is
strength, what a man loves in women is also strength, the strength of
weak things. The strength of the weak thing Isoult had been that, she
had known how to hold him off because of her love's sake. There is
always pity (which should become reverence) in a man's love. He had
never pitied her till she fought so hard for the holiness of her
lover.

Oddly enough, Isoult loved him the more for the very attack which she
had foiled. Odd as it may be, that is where the truth lies. As for
him, gratitude for what she had endured for his sake might go for
nothing. Men do not feel gratitude--they accept tribute. But if they
pity, and their pity is quickened by knowledge of the pitiful, then
they love. Her pleading lips, her dear startled eyes stung him out of
himself. And then he found out why her eyes were startled and why her
lips were mute. She was lovely. Yes, for she loved. This beseeching
child, then, loved him. He knew himself homeless now until she took
him in.




CHAPTER XXX

THE CHAINED VIRGIN OF SAINT THORN


The Abbot Richard of Malbank Saint Thorn went hunting the deer in
Morgraunt with a good company of prickers and dogs. In Spenshaw he
unharboured a stag, and he followed him hard. The hart made straight
for Thornyhold Brush where the great herd lay; there Mellifont, who
was sentry for the time, heard him and gave the alarm. Fern brakes
will hide man from man, but here were dogs. The hunted hart drove
sheer into the thicket on his way to the water; a dog was at his
heels, half-a-dozen more were hard on him. The herd had scattered on
all hands long before this. Mellifont saved herself with them, but
Belvisée tarrying to help Isoult was caught. A great hound snapped at
her as he passed; she limped away with a wounded side. Isoult, too
much of a woman and too little of a hind, stood still. She had closed
with Fate before.

Up came the Abbot's men with horns and shouting voices for the baying
of the deer. He, brave beast, was knifed in the brook and broken up,
the dogs called off and leashed. Then one of the huntsmen saw Isoult.
She had let down her hair for a curtain and stood watching them
intently, neither defiant nor fearful, but with a long, steady,
unwinking gaze. Her bosom rose quick and short, there was no other
stressful sign; she was flushed rather than white. One of the men
thought she was a wood-girl--they all knew of such beings; he crossed
himself. Another knew better. Her mother Mald was a noted witch; he
whistled.

A third thought she was uncommonly handsome; he could only look. The
dogs whimpered and tugged at the leash; they doubtless knew that there
was blood in her. So all waited till the Abbot came up much out of
breath.

Isoult, cloaked in her panoply of silence, saw him first. In fact the
Abbot had eyes only for the dead hart which had led him such a race.
One of the prickers ran forward and caught at his stirrup-leather.

"Lord Abbot, here is the strangest thing my eyes have ever seen in
Morgraunt. As we followed the chase we drove into a great herd which
ran this way and that way. And in the thick of the deer were three
young women scantily attired, as the one you see yonder, going with
the beasts. Of whom two have got clear (one bitten by the mouse-
coloured hound), and this one remains speechless. And who the others
were, whether flesh and blood or wind and breath, I cannot tell you;
but if this laggard is not Isoult, whom we call La Desirous, Matt-o'-
the-Moor's daughter, I am no fit servant for your Holiness'
diversions."

The Abbot had pricked up his ears; now he looked sharply at Isoult.

"You are right, Sweyn," he said; "leave her to me. Girl," he turned to
her, "this time it shall likely go hard with thee. Trees are plenty
and ropes easy to come by. I warned thee before. I shall not warn thee
now."

Isoult bowed her head.

"What dost thou do here, herding in the wood with wild beasts?" he
went on.

"Lord, none but the beasts will give me food or rest or any kindness
at all. There is no pity in man nor woman that I have seen, save in
two, and one is dead. Prosper le Gai, my lord, and husband, hath pity,
and will come to me at last. And whether he shall come to my body
alone or my spirit alone, he will come. And now, lord, hang me to a
tree."

"Dost thou want to be hanged?" he asked.

"Nay, lord, I am too young to be hanged," she said. "Moreover, though
I am wedded to my lord, I am not a wife. For only lately he hath loved
me, and that since we were put apart."

"Wed, and a virgin, girl? Where is thy husband?"

"Lord, he is searching for me."

"Where hath he been, what hath he done--or thou, what hast thou done,
for such a droll fate as this?"

Isoult very simply told him everything. Of Galors he already had some
news--enough to dread more. But when he heard that the girl had
actually been in High March Castle, had been expelled from it, he
crossed himself and thanked God for all His mercies. He became a
devout Christian at this critical point in Isoult's career, whereby
her neck was saved a second time from the rope. He felt a certain
pity--she a handsome girl, too, though his type for choice was blonde
--for her simplicity, and, as he certainly wished to obtain mercy,
reflected upon the possible blessings of the merciful. Besides, Galors
was at large, Galors who knew the story, to say nothing of Prosper,
also at large, who did not know the story, but did know, on the other
hand, the Countess Isabel. Difficult treading! But so the habits of a
lifetime for once chimed in with its professions. Even as he stood
pitying he roughed out another set of shifts. Prosper and his
unconsummated marriage might be set aside--the fool, he thought with a
chuckle, deserved it. There remained Galors. He would get the girl
married to a mesne of the abbey, or stay! he would marry her elsewhere
and get a dowry. She had filled out astonishingly, every line of her
spoke of blood: there would be no trouble about a dowry. Then he might
supplant Galors by being beforehand with him at the Countess's ear.
Gratitude of the mother, gratitude of the daughter, gratitude of the
son-in-law! Thus Charity walked hand in hand with Policy. The girl was
a beauty. What a picture she made there, short-frocked, flushed and
loose-haired, like an Amazon--but, by Mars, not maimed liked an
Amazon. The Abbot was a connoisseur of women, as became a confessor
and man of the world.

"If I do not hang thee, Isoult, wilt thou come with me to Saint Thom?"

"Yes, lord, I will come."

"Up with you then before me," said the Abbot, and stooped to lift her.
Her hair fell back as she was swung into the saddle. "My lady,"
thought the Abbot, "it is clear you are no Amazon; but I should like
to know what you wear round that fine little neck of yours."

He bided his time, and sent the men and dogs on ahead. Then at
starting he spurred his horse so that the beast plunged both his
riders forward. The burden of the chain slipt its harbourage, and the
next minute the Abbot had ring and locket in the palm of his hand.

"What is this ring, my girl?" he asked.

"My lord, it is my wedding-ring, wherewith I was wed in the cottage."

"Ah, is that it? Well, I will keep it until there is need."

Isoult began to cry at this, which cut her deeper than all the
severances she had known. She could confess to the ring.

"Don't cry, child," said the Abbot, whom women's tears troubled;
"believe me when I say that you shall have it for your next wedding."

"Oh, my ring! my ring! What shall I do? It is all I have. Oh, my lord,
my lord!"

This pained the Abbot extremely. He got what satisfaction there was
from the thought that, having dropt it behind him, he could not give
it back for all the tears in the world. He was busy now examining the
other token--a crystal locket whereon were a pelican in piety circled
with a crown of thorns, and on the other side the letters I and F
interlaced. He knew it better than most people.

"Isoult, stop crying," he said. "Take off this chain and locket and
give them to me."

So she did.

"Ah, my lord," she pleaded as she tendered, "I ask only for the ring."

"Plague take the ring," cried the Abbot very much annoyed. "I will
throw it away if you say another word about it."

The threat chilled her. She dried her eyes, hoping against hope, for
even hope needs a sign.

When he had his prize safe in Holy Thorn, the Abbot Richard, who had a
fantastic twist in him, and loved to do his very rogueries in the
mode, set himself to embroider his projects when he should have been
executing them. His lure was a good lure, but she would be none the
worse for a little gilding; there must be a pretty cage, with a spice
of malice in its devising, to excite the tenderer feelings. It should
be polite malice, however--a mere hint at a possible tragedy behind a
smirk.

He dressed her in green silk because she was fresh-coloured and had
black hair. If she had been pale, as when he first knew her, and as
she was to be again before he knew her no more, the dress would have
been red, depend upon it. He put a gold ring on her finger, a jewel on
her forehead, a silver mirror and a Book of Hours bound in silver
leaves to swing at her girdle. Her chamber was hung with silk arras,--
the loving history of Aristotle and a princess of Cyprus;--she had two
women to wait upon her, to tire her hair in new ways and set new
crowns upon it; she had a close garden of her own, with roses and a
fountain, grass lawns, peacocks. She had pages to serve her kneeling,
musical instruments, singing boys and girls. He gave her a lap-dog.
Finally he kissed her and said--

"You are to be queen of this place, Isoult the Much-Desired."

All this the Abbot did. This also he did--his crowning piece. He
caused her to wear round her waist a girdle made of bright steel in
which was a staple. To the staple he fixed a fine steel chain--a toy,
a mimicry of prisons, but in fact a chain--and the other end of a
chain was fixed to a monk's wrist. The chain was fine and flexible, it
was long, it could go through the keyhole--and did--but it was a
chain. Wherever the girl went, to the garden, to table, to music, to
bed, abroad, or to Mass, she was chained to a monk and a monk to her.
The Abbot Richard rested on the seventh day, contemplating his labours
with infinite relish. It seemed to him that this was to be politic
with an air. So far as he might he did everything in that manner.

Isoult bore the burden much as she had borne the thwackings of the
charcoal-burners, with ingrained patience. Seriously, one only cross
fretted her--the loss of her ring. This indeed cried desertion upon
her. Prosper had never seemed so far, nor his love so faint and ill-
assured. It would seem that kindness really killed her by drugging her
spirit as with anodyne. As she had fallen at Gracedieu, so she fell
now into a languid habit where tears swam in flood about the lids of
her eyes, where the eyes were too heavy for clear sight and the very
blood sluggish with sorrow. She grew pale again, hollow-eyed,
diaphanous--a prism for an unearthly ray. Her beauty took on its elfin
guise; she walked a ghost. Night and day she felt for the ring; though
she knew it was not there, her hand was always in her vest, her bosom
always numb and cold. Sometimes her urgent need was more than she
could bear. A trembling took her, an access of trembling which she
could not check. At such times, if others were about her, she would
sit vacant and speechless, smiling faintly for courtesy; her eyes
would brim over, the great drops fall unchecked. There would be no
sobbing, very little catching of the breath. The well of misery would
fill and overflow, gently and smoothly irresistible. Then the shaking
would cease and the fount be dry for a season. So she grew more a
spirit and less a maid; her eyes waxed larger, and the pupils whelmed
the grey in jet.

The people of Malbank frankly took her for a saint. Martyrs, virgins,
and such rare birds do not hop in every cage; but what more reasonable
than that the famous Abbot of Saint Thorn should catch one in his own
springes? Those who maintained that the chained white creature, who
knelt folded at the Mass, or on a white palfrey rode out on the heath
guarded by two monks, was the stormy girl who had kept swine about the
middens, Matt's bad daughter Isoult la Desirous, those were leagued
with the devil and his imps, who would not see a saint if all heaven
walked the earth.

The report fell in excellently with the Abbot's calculation. No one
believed in the Isoult fable save Mald, whom the girl had seen once or
twice, and himself; every one talked rather of the Chained Virgin of
Saint Thorn. She became an object of pilgrimage. The Abbot grew to
call her chamber the feretory; the faithful gave alms, particularly
the seamen from Wanmouth. Then others came to behold, more to his
liking, proposing barter. She was observed of the Lord of Hartlepe,
the young Lord of Brokenbridge, the Lord of Courthope Saint James; of
the Baron of Starning and Parrox, also, from the East Demesne. This
Baron Malise, thin and stooping, having Prosper's quick eyes without
his easy lordship over all who met them, and Prosper's high voice
twisted querulous, came to view his young brother's wife. She pleased,
but the price did not please. He and the Abbot haggled over the dowry;
Malise, as obstinate as Prosper, would not budge. So they haggled.
Finally came Galors de Born, Lord of Hauterive and many other places
in the north, not to be denied.




CHAPTER XXXI

'ENTRA PER ME'


When Galors overshot his mark in Thornyhold he flew very wide. It is
well known there are no roads. Thornyhold is but the beginning of the
densest patch of timber in all the forest. Malbank is your nearest
habitation; Spenshaw, Heckaby, Dunsholt Thicket, Hartshold, Deerleap
are forest names, not names of the necessities of men. You may wander
a month if you choose, telling one green hollow from another; or you
may go to Holy Thorn at Malbank, or endure unto Wanmouth and the sea.
If you were Galors and needed counsel you would not choose the wood;
naturally you would avoid Malbank. There would remain to you Wanmouth.

Galors went to Wanmouth. It was the Countess's country of course; but
his disguise was good enough. People read the arms and hailed a le Gai
or one of that house. It was at Wanmouth that he learned what he
wanted. Malise, after one of his interminable chafferings with the
Abbot Richard, took it on his way to the east.

"My Lord Baron of Starning," said the Vice-Admiral of the port, "we
have had a friend of your house here a week or more."

"Eh, eh!" said Malise, feeling his pocket, "what does the rogue want
with his friendship? I'm as poor as a rat. Who is he?"

"Oh, for that," replied the other, "he seems a great lord in his way,
wears your blazon, is free with his money, and he swears like a
Fleming."

"Bring him to me, Admiral, bring him to me. I shall like this man."

So Galors was brought in, to be graciously received by the head of the
house of Gai. His blunt manner deceived Malise at once. In his
experience people who wanted to borrow dealt differently. Here was a
lofty soul, who might, on the other hand, be guided to lend! In the
course of a long conversation Melise unbosomed. He was newly a lover
and liked the part. The Baron ended his confession thus--

"So, my dear friend, you see how it is with me. I have never met you
before--the more's the pity. I accept your civilities, but I make no
promises--you know our legend? Well, I bide my time--he--he! No
boasting, but upon my honour, my reputation does not make me out
ungrateful. I say to you, go to Malbank; observe, watch, judge, then
report to me. The detail I leave to you. I should recommend a
disguise. The place has become one of pilgrimage--go as a pilgrim! You
will see whether the prize is worth my while. I am sure you have
taste--I know it. Observe, report. Then we will act."

"Ravishment of ward?" asked Galors dryly.

"Ward! She is not his ward. How can she be? Who is she? Nobody knows.
The thing is a crying scandal, my dear friend. A woman in an abbey
parlour! An alcove at Holy Thorn! Are we Mohammedans, infidels, Jews
of the Old Law? Fie!"

"You do not know her name, Baron?"

"She is the Chained Virgin of Saint Thorn, I tell you. She has no
other name. She sits in a throne in choir, pale as milk, with burning
grey eyes as big as passion-flowers! She is a chained Andromeda on the
rock of Peter. Be my Perseus!"

"Hum," said Galors, half to himself, "hum! Yes, I will go at once."

"My dear friend----"

"Not a word more, Baron. Go home to Starning, go where you like, and
wait. If you see me again the lady will be with me."

"You shall not find me ungrateful, I promise," cried Malise, going
out.

"Damn your gratitude," said Galors, when the door was shut.

A mortified Perseus in drab cloak and slouch hat, he went to Malbank
next day and verified his prognosis. The Abbot sang Mass, his old
colleagues huddled in choir; the place echoed with the chastened
snuffling he knew so well. Galors had no sentiment to pour over them.
Standing, bowing, genuflecting, signing himself at the bidding of the
bell, he had no eyes for any but the frail apparition whose crown of
black seemed to weigh her toward the pavement. The change wrought in
her by a year's traffic might have shocked, as the eyes might have
haunted him; but she was nothing but a symbol by now. A frayed ensign,
she stood for an earldom and a fee. The time had been when her beauty
had bewitched him; that was when she went flesh and blood, sun-
browned, full of the sap of untamed desires. Now she was a ghost with
a dowry; stricken, but holding a fief.

He judged the chain, the time, the place, the chances. He had three
men. It was enough. Next Sunday he would act. Then for the forest
roads and High March!

That next Sunday was Lammas Day and a solemn feast. All Malbank was in
the nave, a beaten and weather-scarred bundle of drabs packed in one
corner under the great vaulting ribs. Within the dark aisles the
chapels gloomed, here and there a red lamp made darkness darker; but
the high altar was a blaze of lights. The faces, scared or sharp-set,
of the worshippers fronted the glory open-mouthed, but all dull.
Hunger makes a bad altar-flame; when it burns not sootily it fires the
fabric.

Afterwards came something which they understood--Isoult between her
two women, the monk behind. A girl chained by the middle to a monk--
Oh, miracle! She sat very still in her carved chair, folding her
patient hands. So thin, so frail, so transparent she was, they thought
her pure spirit, a whisp of gossamered breath, or one of those gauzy
sublimations which the winter will make of a dead leaf. The cowed
audience watched her wonderfully; some of the women snivelled. The
white monks, the singing boys, the banners and tapers, Ceremoniar,
Deacon, Subdeacon, the vested Abbot himself, passed like a shining
cloud through the nave. All their light came from the Chained Virgin
of Saint Thorn. And then the Mass began.

There was a ring of hoofs outside, but no one looked round, and none
came in. A shadow fell across the open door. At a _Dominus
Vobiscum_ you might have seen the ministrant falter; there might
have been a second or two of check in his chant, but he mastered it
without effort, and turned again with displayed hands to his affair.
The choir of white hoods, however, watched the shadow at the west
door. Isoult saw nothing and heard nothing; she was kneeling at
prayer. It may be doubted if any prayed but the girl and the priest.

The holy office proceeded; the Sanctus bell shrilled for the first
time. Hoofs shattered scandalously on the flags, and Galors, with an
armed man on either hand of him, rode into the nave. The choir rose in
a body, the nave huddled; Isoult, as she believed, saw Prosper, spear,
crest, and shield. Her heart gave a great leap, then stood still.
Perhaps there was a flicker in the Abbot's undertone; his lips may
have been dry; but his courage was beyond proof. He held on.

Isoult was blanched as a cloth; lips, fingers and ears, the tongue in
her open mouth--all creeks for the blood were ebbed dry. Her awful
eyes, fixed and sombre stars, threatened to gulf her in their dark.
Love was drowned in such horror as this.

Galors swung out of the saddle. In the breathless place the din of
that act came like a thunder-peal, crackling and crashing, like to
wreck the church. He drew his sword, with none to stay him, and strode
forward. If the Abbot Richard heard his step up the choir the man is
worthy of all memory, for he went on with his manual acts, and his
murmur of prayer never ceased. He may have heard nothing--who knows
what his motions were? He was a brave man.

The bell rang--rang again--God beamed in the Host. The people wavered,
but use held. They bowed prone before God in His flake of new flesh.

"_Deus in adjutorium_," muttered the Abbot to himself.

"_Entra per me!_" thundered Galors, and ran him through the body.

After the first shudder had swept through the church there was no
sound at all, until some woman hidden began a low moan, and keened the
Abbot Richard. No one dared to stir while those grim horsemen in the
nave sat like rocks.

Galors turned to Isoult where she froze rigid in her throne, severed
the chain at a blow, and went to take her. Some sudden thought struck
him; he turned her quickly round to the light and without ceremony
fumbled at her neck. She grew sick to feel him touch her.

"The Abbot hath it." Her lips formed the words. Galors went back to
the dead priest and pulled off chain and locket.

"Oh, my ring, my ring!" whined the girl as he slipt the chain over
her. He did not seem to hear her, but snatched her up in his arms as
if she had been a doll and set her on his horse. He swung himself into
the saddle behind her as he had swung himself out of it, reined up
short and turned. The three men rode out with their burden. When they
had gone the Deacon (who got a mitre for it) solemnly laid the fallen
host between his lord's lips. The act, at once pious and sensible,
brought up the congregation from hell to earth again. At such times
routine is the only saving thing.

Once free of the Abbey precincts the three horsemen forded Wan. At a
signal pre-arranged one of them fell back to keep watch over the
river. Galors went forward with one in his company on to the heath,
dropped him after three or four hours' steady going, and rode on
still. His third man was to meet him at the edge of Martle Brush.
Never a word had he spoken since his great "_Entra per me!_" but
without that the act had been enough to tell his prize, that whatever
her chains had been before, the sword-stroke had riveted them closer.
There had been no chain like his mailed arm round her body.

Nothing could be done. Indeed she was as yet paralyzed; for wild work
as had been done in her sight, this was savagery undreamed. She could
get no comfort, she never thought of Prosper. Even Prosper, her lord,
could not stand before such a force as this. As for good Saint
Isidore, the pious man became a shade, and vanished with his Creator
into the dark.

Night came on, but a low yellow moon burnt the fringe of the rising
woods. They were retracing almost the very stones of the track she and
Prosper had followed a year before.

Matt's intake they passed, she saw a light in the window. The heath
loomed ghostly before them, with the dark bank of trees rising
steadily as they neared. Athwart them rose also the moon; there was
promise of a fine still night. They entered the trees, heading for
Martle Brush.

Suddenly Galors pulled up, listening intently. There was no sound save
that strange murmur the night has (as if the whole concave of heaven
were the hollow of a shell), and the secret rustling of the trees.
Still Galors listened. It was so quiet you might almost have heard two
hearts beating.

As an underchant, sinister accompaniment to the voices of the night,
there came to them the muffled pulsing of a horse's hoofs; a quick and
regular sound--a horse galloping evenly with plenty in hand.

Both heard it. Galors drove in the spurs, and the chase began. They
were yet a mile away from Martle Brush. If they could cross the brook
and gain the ridgeway, it was long odds on their being overtaken that
night.




CHAPTER XXXII

'BIDE THE TIME'


Walking the rounds at Hauterive the night of his coming there, a man
sprang out at Prosper from a black entry and stabbed at him between
the shoulders. "For the ravisher of Isoult!" was all the message that
did not miscarry, for Galors' mail of proof stopped the rest. Prosper
whipt round in an instant, but the assassin had made up the passage-
way. There was a quick chase through the break-neck lanes of the steep
little town, then blood told. Prosper ran his man to earth in a
churchyard. He proved to be a red-haired country lout, whose bandy
legs had been against him in this work. He asked for no quarter,
seemed beside himself with rage.

"Friend," said Prosper, "you struck me from behind. You must have
wished to make very sure. Why?"

Said Falve, "Thou ravisher, Galors."

"I cannot be called Galors to my face; politics may go to the devil.
Keep my secret, countryman; I am in Galors' shell, but I will be
Galors no more."

Falve dropped on his knees. "Oh, my lord, my lord--" he began to cry
out.

"Enough of lords," said Prosper. "Some of them do not very lordly, I
grant you. Your words touched me nearly. Be so good as to make
yourself plain. Who is Isoult?"

"Isoult la Desirous, my wife, Messire."

"Your wife!" cried Prosper, grinding his teeth.

"As good as that, my lord. I should have married her in the morning if
my mother hadn't played the Turk on me."

So he had the whole story out of him. Prosper learnt that Isoult had
been put in her way to safety by the old woman, who immediately after
had made that way the most perilous of all--with the best intentions
always.

"Master Falve, I am your debtor," said Prosper at the end; "I wish you
good evening."

"Messire, will you not find my wife?"

"Your wife again, sirrah!" cried he, turning sharply.

"Ah, my lord, if you have any ill-will to that----"

"I have the greatest possible ill-will, my man, because she is already
my own."

"Heaven round about us, was there ever such a married woman!" cried
poor Falve, tearing his hair.

The politics of a lady to whom, so far as he then knew, he owed no
service held Prosper till the morning. The rest of the night he spent
walking the ramparts. At the first flutter of light he beat up the
garrison, assembled the men of both parties, and declared himself.

"Hauterive returns to its allegiance," said he. "Conradin de Lamport
is commandant. The former garrison will deliver up all arms and take
the oath of fealty. A declaration of hue-and-cry is posted for Galors,
with a reward for his head. In three days' time the Countess will send
her Viceroy to claim the keys. Gentlemen, I bid you good morning."

Conradin de Lamport was the name of the man who had accompanied him
into Wanmeeting. Prosper knew he was to be trusted. Then with
conscience cleared he mounted his horse and left Hauterive.

Keeping a sharp look-out as he went, he was rewarded by the find of a
shoe, glowing like a crimson toadstool in the moss. Not far off were
its fellow, and a pair of drenched silk stockings. He kissed the
vestiges of the feet of Isoult, hung them to the peak of the saddle,
and forward again like a westerly gale. After this came a fault which
delayed him the best part of three days. The deer were dumb animals
for him, whose business had hitherto been to bleed not milk them.
There were deer feeding in the glades of Thornyhold; but Belvisée was
nursing her wound under the oak by the pool, and Mellifont was beside
her. The deer snuffed an enemy in the friend of their friend; they
gave him a lead astray, which unconsciously he took. Thus he found
himself, after two days' aimless wandering and two nights' dreamless
sleep, on the high ground by Deerleap, with the forest behind and the
rolling purple fells stretched out before him, and at last a blue
gauzy ribbon which he knew for the sea. Out of heart he turned and
beat back to Thornyhold, this time to better purpose.

A rustle in the fern, a start, a glint of the sun on a side not furry,
a flash of flying green and russet, a streamer of hair like a litten
cloud--by Heavens, how the brown girl ran! Prosper, laughing but keen,
gave chase. She led him far, in and out of the oak stems, doubling
like a hare; but he rode her down by cutting off the corners: flushed,
panting and wild, defiant she stood, ready to flinch at the blow.

Prosper's horse was properly breathed; as for him he burst into a
laugh.

"My child, you bolted like a rabbit. But own that I gave you a good
run."

"You beat me," said Mellifont.

"Well, and now I am going to do what I like with you."

"Of course."

"You must be obedient. Answer my question now. Why did you run?"

"Because you came."

"Why did you run?"

"Because you are a man."

"Madam Virgin, what a prude! Did you think I should hurt you?"

"Yes."

"Well, have I?"

"Not yet."

"Look at me now. Do I look like hurting you?" He put up his visor. The
softest brown eyes a girl can have trembled over him.

"No--o. Oh!" The negative was drowned in discovery. Prosper followed
her gaze. He held up the red stockings.

"Do you know them, child?"

"I know to whom they belong. Are you going to hunt her?"

"Hunt her! I am going to find her. I think she has had hunting enough,
God bless her."

"Yes, she has," said Mellifont gravely.

Prosper stooped in his saddle and laid a hand on her head.

"My dear," said he, "I love that hunted lady beyond everything in the
world; I never knew how much until I had lost her. But no wrong will
happen to her till she hears me tell her the truth. If you know
anything you must not hide it from me."

Mellifont peered up at him through her hair.

"Are you Prosper?" she asked.

"Yes, I am indeed. Did she speak to you about me?"

"Often."

"Is she--ah, Lord of Hosts! she is not here?"

"No, not now. She was here. Come with me. But you must leave your
horse and sword behind you."

Prosper obeyed her without a thought. Mellifont took his hand and led
him to the hollow under the oak. Belvisée was there, dumbly nursing
her side, which a stooping hind was licking when the pair came up.
Prosper received the red robe and the sequins from her hands, and in
time pieced the story together. It cut him to the soul.

"Take me to the place where the dogs got her," he said in a whisper.
Belvisée and Mellifont led him there. Once more, then, he wasted his
eyes on crushed herbage, black fern, and stained earth; again loathed
himself very heartily for what he had not done; but in time understood
what he had done. He turned deliberately to the sisters. "Belvisée and
Mellifont, listen to what I shall tell you. There is no strength like
a woman's, and no blindness like that of a man. For the woman is
strong because she is blind and cannot see the man she loves as he is;
therefore she makes him in her own glorious image. But the man is
blind because he is strong, and because he seeth himself so glorious
that he can abide no other near him save as a servant. In that he doth
deadly sin to Love, because the food of Love is service, and he that
serves not Love starves him. But the woman feedeth him with her own
milk; so Love is with her till she dies. I, by the mercy of God, have
learned what Love is, and can feed him with service. And Isoult la
Desirous has taught me, who is now Isoult la Desirée."

Prosper ceased. Mellifont was crying on Belvisée's shoulder. The
latter said--

"Prosper, if all men were like thee, we might leave the forest and
dwell with them."

"Come with me," he said, "and I will see you safely bestowed."

"No, no; we will stay where we are known and with whom we know. All
men are not like you."

"As you must, it must needs be," replied Prosper. He kissed each on
the cheek, and watched them go hand-in-hand down the glade. The herd
closed in upon them, so neither he nor the Argument knows them any
more.

Prosper knelt down to pray; but what he found set him to better work.
He found Isoult's wedding-ring.

"By God," he cried, "who made men to labour, I will pray with my hands
this turn!"

He ran for his horse and sword. Courage came with his gallop, courage
and self-esteem, without which no man ever did anything yet. With
self-esteem returned sober thought.

"I can do Malbank in three or four hours. There is light enough for
what I have to settle there. I will spare my horse and save time in
the end. Meantime I will think this affair out." So said Prosper
galloping to Prosper on his feet, the late moralist. His plan was very
simply to confront the Abbot with his ring. If that failed he would
scour his own country, raise a troop, and lay leaguer on Saint Thorn.
He had forgotten Galors. He was soon to have a reminder of that grim
fighter.

The doors of the great church stood open, so Prosper rode in. It was
cold and dark, and smelt of death and candle-fumes. The pilasters of
the nave were already swathed in black velvet; in the choir were great
lights set on the floor, in the midst of them a bier. A priest was at
a little altar by the bier's head, other cowled figures crouched about
it. There was a low murmur of praying, even, whining, and mechanical.
On the bier Prosper saw the comely Abbot Richard Dieudonné, in cope
and mitre, holding in his hand the staff of his high office. This
pastor of the Church was at peace; the man of the world was sober with
access of wisdom; the man of modes smiled pleasantly at his secret
thoughts. Very handsome, very remote, very pure he looked; for so
death purges off the dross which we work into the good clay.

Prosper, meditative always at the sight of death, stood and pondered
upon it. Everything was well, no doubt; such things should be! but the
indifference of the defunct seemed almost shocking. Do they not care
for decent interment? Then he turned to a bystander.

"You mourn for your father?" he asked.

"Master, we do indeed. What! a great lord, a throned and pompous
priest, to be felled like a calf; his body spitted like a lark's! No
leave asked! You may well judge whether we mourn. I suppose there
never was such a mournful affair since a king died in this country."

"Murdered?" cried Prosper, highly scandalized.

"Murdered by Prosper le Gai for the sake of the Chained Virgin."

"By Prosper le Gai?"

"'Tis so indeed. And well he did his work, if there's anything in
wrist play. For first he spits the Abbot, and then he sunders the
chain, and next he overhauls the girl, and next the Abbot. And he puts
her under his arm like a marketable hen, and away he gallops over the
heath. Hot work!"

"Galors' work," said Prosper to himself as he turned away.

He prayed at three altars for the man's soul, turned, mounted, and
galloped. He forded Wan. A horseman met him on the further bank,
shouting. Prosper lowered his head and shot at him as from a catapult.
The spear drove deep, the man threw his arms out, sobbed, and dropped
like a stone. Prosper went on his race.

It was growing dusk when he stood on the threshold of Matt's intake,
battering at the door. The hag-ridden face of old Mald stared out. She
parted her tattered hair from her eyes and pointed a shaky finger at
him.

"Galors," she wailed, "Galors, thou monk forsworn, thinkest thou to
have the Much-Desired? No, but her husband has her at last, and shall
have her with all that is hers--ah, though he have done murder to get
her. Swear back, Galors, and pray for thy dead master."

Prosper held up his hand to stay the tide.

"Mother, I am Prosper, the husband of the Much-Desired. No murder have
I done, though I have seen murder. And I have not my wife; but I
believe she is with Galors."

Old Mald came fawning out to him at this, and took his hands in her
own trembling hands.

"He passed an hour agone," said she. "He will do her no wrong till he
hath her at High March, trust him for that. And by now he should be
near Martle, and she before him on the saddle-bow."

She began to weep and wag her silly head. Prosper made to go, having
no time to waste; but, "Stop," she quavered, "and hear me out. Though
the Abbot Richard was murdered at his prayers, yet withal he got his
deserts, for he hatched a worse wrong than ever Galors did. The child
was chained by the middle, and came to me chained riding a white
palfrey. In green and white she came, and round her middle was a
chain, long and supple, and a monk on horse-back held the end thereof.
She came to me to the hearth at the length of her chain, and held me
in her dear arms, and kissed me, cheeks and forehead. Down I sat on my
stool and she on the knees of me, and she hid her face on my leanness
while she spoke of you, my lord--called you her dear heart, and told
of all the bitter longings she had. Ah, now! Ah, now! If you but
knew."

"God forgive me," cried the lacerated wretch, "but I know it all! Yet
tell me what else she said."

"There was little more," said Mald, "for the monk pulled at her, and
she went as she came."

"Have they passed an hour gone?" said Prosper in a dry whisper.

"Ah, and more."

"God be with you," said he; "pray for her."

"Pray!" mocked the crone in a rage; "and pray what will that do?"

"No more than I, mother, just now. God is all about us. Farewell!"

And he was gone amid flying peats.

Midway of the heath a second knight met him, challenged him, and
charged. Prosper was not for small game that night. His head grew
cooler, as always, for his haste, his arm steady as a rock. Thereupon
he ran his man through the breastbone. He broke his spear, but took
the other's, and away. At the edge of the wood the moon-rays gleamed a
third time upon mail. It was Galors' last sentry, who hallooed to stay
him. Prosper was on him before he was ready, and hurled him from the
saddle. He never moved. Prosper galloped through the wood.

The snapping branches, thunder of hoofs, labouring belly and hard-won
breath of his beast, more than all the wind that sang in his ears,
prevented him from hearing what Galors and his prey had already heard.
He went headlong down the slope of the ground; but before anything
more welcome he caught the music of the brook in the bottom.

There was a gap in the trees just there; the moon swam in the midst
large and golden. Then at last he saw what he wanted, and knew that
the hour had come.




CHAPTER XXXIII

SALOMON IS DRIVEN HOME


Galors, too, knew that the hour had come; but his spirit came up to
meet it, and he made a push for it. He was over the brook; if he could
top the ridge he would have the advantage he had a year ago, which
this time he swore to put to better use. The girl knew his thoughts as
she had known the accolade of the thundering hoofs behind them. She
would have thrown herself if the steel trap had loosed ever so little;
as it was, she fluttered like a rag caught in a bush; the filmy body
was what Galors held, the soul shrilled prayers to the man's
confusion. He could not stay her lips; they moved, working against
him, as he knew well. "Mother of God, send him, send him, send him!"
It was ill fighting against a girl's soul, it slacked his rein and
drugged his heel. By God, let the boy come and be damned; let him
fight! "Mother of God, send, send, send!" breathed Isoult. The horse
below them shuddered, failed to come up to the rein, bowed his head to
the jerked spur. Galors left off spurring, and slackened his rein.
Though he would not look behind him he heard the plash of the ford,
heard also Prosper's low, "Steady, mare, hold up!" Prosper was over;
Galors halfway up the hill. It would be soon.

The black and white gained hand over hand; the red and green felt him
come. The soul of Isoult hovered between them. Black and white drew
level; red and green held on. Side by side, spears erect and tapering
into the moon, plumes nodding, eyes front, they paced; the soul of
Isoult took flight, the body crouched in the steel's hug. The gleam of
the white wicket-gates caught their master's eye; they were risen in
judgment against him. _Entra per me_ was to play him false. This
trifling thing unnerved him till it seemed to speak a message of doom.
But doom once read and accepted, nerve came back. By God, he would die
as he had lived, strenuously, seeking one thing at a time! But to be
killed by his chosen arm, overshrilled by his own shout--that sobered
him, little of a sentimentalist as he was. As for love-lorn Prosper,
he had still less sentiment to waste. True, he had not chosen his
arms, his motto had been found for him by his ancestors--they were
cut-and-dried affairs, so much clothing to which Galors at this moment
served as a temporary peg. Sweet Saviour! the Much-Desired was near
him, close by. He could have touched her head. She never moved to look
at him; he knew so much without turning his own head. And he knew
further that she knew him there. The soul of Isoult, you see, had
taken wings. Thus they gained the ridge and halted. Backing their
beasts, they were face to face, and each looked shrewdly at the other,
waiting who should begin the game.

Then it was that Isoult suddenly sat up and looked at Prosper. He
could not read her face, but knew by her stiff-poised head that she
was quivering. He said nothing, but made a motion, a swift jerk with
his head, to wave her out of the way. Galors responded by first
tightening, finally relaxing, his hold upon her waist. She slipt down
from the saddle, and stood hesitating what to do. She had waited for
this moment so long, that the natural thing had become the most
unnatural of all. Prosper never glanced at her, but kept his eyes
steadily on Galors. The times--in his mannish view--were too great for
lovers. Isoult stept back into the shadows.

The two men at once saluted in knightly fashion, wheeled, and rode
apart. The lists were a long alley between the pines, all soft moss
and low scrub of whortleberry and heather. Galors had the hill behind
him, but no disadvantage in that unless he were pushed down it; the
place was dead level. They halted at some thirty yards' interval,
waiting. Then Prosper gave a shout--_"Bide the time!" "Entra per
me!"_ came as a sombre echo; and the two spurred horses flung
forward at each other.

Each spear went true. Prosper got his into the centre of Galors'
shield, and it splintered at the guard. Galors' hit fair; but Prosper
used his trick of dropping at the impact, so that the spear glanced
off over his shoulder. Galors recovered it and his seat together. It
would seem that Prosper had taught him some civility by this, for he
threw his lance away as soon as the horses were free of each other.
Both drew their swords. Then followed a bout of wheeling and darting
in, at which Prosper had clear advantage as the lighter horseman on
the handier horse. Galors' strength was in downright carving;
Prosper's in his wrist-play and lightning recovery. He, moreover, was
cool, Galors hot. At this work he got home thrice to the other's once,
but that once was for a memory, starred the shoulder-piece and bit to
the bone. Left arm luckily. Prosper made a feint at a light canter,
spurred when he was up with his man, and, as his horse plunged, got
down a back-stroke, which sent Galors' weapon flying from his hand. He
turned sharply and reined up. Galors dismounted slowly, picked up his
sword, and went to mount again. He blundered it twice, shook the blood
out of his eyes, tried again, but lurched heavily and dropped. He only
saved himself by the saddle. Prosper guessed him more breathed than
blooded.

"Galors," said he, "we have done well enough for the turn. Rest, and
let me rest."

"As you will," said Galors thickly.

The two men sat facing each other on either side of the way. Galors
unlaced his helm and leaned on his elbows, taking long breaths.
Prosper unlaced his; and then followed a lesson to Isoult in warfare,
as he understood it. The girl had run down the hill-side to the brook,
so soon as she saw they must give over. She now came back, bearing
between her hands a broad leaf filled with water. This she brought to
her lord. Prosper smiled to her.

"Take it to Galors, Isoult, whom we must consider as our guest," he
whispered.

She turned at once and went dutifully, with recollected feet and bosom
girt in meekness, to give him the cold water cupped in her palms.
Galors drank greedily, and grunted his thanks. As for Prosper, he
praised men and angels for a fair vision.

She came back after another journey to feed her lover, and afterwards
stood as near to him as she dared. Galors, the alien, looked ever at
the ground.

"Galors," said Prosper presently, "how do you find my harness?"

"It has served me its turn," he answered.

"That also I can say of yours," replied Prosper, with a little laugh;
"for it has taken me into places where, without it, I should have
found a strait gate in. For that I can thank you more than for the
head-ache and cold bath at Goltres."

"Ha!" said the other, "that was a sheer knock. I thought it had
finished you, to be plain. But do not lay it to my door. I fight truer
than that."

"Truly enough you have fought me this night," Prosper allowed
heartily, "and I ask no better. But will you now tell me one thing
about which I have been curious ever since our encounter in this place
a year ago?"

"What is it?"

"Your arms--the blazon--do you bear them as of right?"

"I bear them by the right a fighter has. They have carried me far, and
done my work."

"They are not of your family?"

"My family? Messire, you should know that a monk carries no arms. My
family, moreover, was not knightly, till I made it knightly."

"The arms you assumed with your new profession?"

"I did."

"May I know whence you took them?"

"No, I cannot tell you that. They are the arms of a man now dead,
Salomon de Montguichet"

"They are the arms," said Prosper slowly, "of a man now dead. I saw
him dead, and helped to bury him. I knew not then how he died, though
I have thought to be sure since. But you are wrong in one thing. The
bearer of those arms was not Salomon de Montguichet."

"It is you who are wrong, Messire. It is beyond doubt; and the proof
is that on the shield are the _guichets_, taken from the name."

"Galors, the name was taken from the _guichets_, and the
_guichets_ from Coldscaur in the north. The man's name was
Salomon de Born."

Galors gave a dry sob, and another, and another. He threw up his arms,
twisting with the gesture of a man on the rope. Prosper and Isoult
rose also, Prosper pale and hard, the girl wide-eyed. Galors seemed to
tear at himself, as if at war with a fiend inside him. Prosper stepped
forward; you would not have known his voice.

"Man," he said, "our account is not yet done. But I know what I know.
If you have accounts to settle, settle them now. I will bear you
company and wait for you where you will."

The words steadied Galors, sobered and quieted him. He began to mutter
to himself. "God hath spoken to me. Out of my own deeds cometh His
judgment, and out of my own sowing the harvest I shall reap. _Entra
per me_, saith God." He turned to Prosper. "Sir, I accept of your
allowance. I will not take you far. One more thing I will ask at your
hands, that you give me back my own sword--Salomon's sword. After a
little you shall have it again."

"I will do it," said Prosper, knowing his thought.

They changed swords. Prosper set Isoult on his horse and himself
walked at her stirrup. The three of them moved forward without another
word given or exchanged. Galors led the way.

Instead of following the line of the chase, which had been north, they
now struck east through the heavy woodland. So they went for some
three hours. It must have been near midnight, with a moon clear of all
trees, when they halted at a cross-ride which ran north and south.
Before them, over the ride, rose a thick wall of pine-stems, so
serried that there was no room for a horse to pass in between them.
Isoult started, looked keenly up and down the ride, then collected
herself and sat quite still. Prosper took no notice of anything.

"Prosper," said Galors quietly, "you will wait here for me. You know
that I shall return. It will be within half-an-hour from now."

"Good. I shall be here."

Galors dismounted and plunged into the wall of pines; they seemed to
move and fold him in their mazes, and nothing spoke of him thereafter
but the sound of his heavy tread on dry twigs. When this was lost an
immense stillness sat brooding.

Neither Prosper nor Isoult could speak. Her presence was to him a warm
consolation, to be apprehended by flashes in the course of a long
battle with black and heavy thoughts; her also the pause (more fateful
than the battle it had interrupted) affected strangely, the more
strangely because she did not know the whole truth. I may say here
that Prosper never told her of it; nor did she ask it of him. It was
the one event of their lives, joint and disjoint, upon which they were
always as dumb as now when they thought apart. Thoughtful apart though
they were, they felt together. Prosper's hand stole upwards from his
side; Isoult's drew to it as metal to magnet; the rest of that heavy
hour they passed hand-in-hand. So children comfort each other in the
dark.

Very faint and far off a solitary cry broke the vast dearth of the
night. It rose like an owl's hooting, held, shuddered, and then died
down. Prosper's clasp on the girl's hand suddenly straightened; it
held convulsively while the call held, relaxed when it relaxed. Then
the former hush swam again over the wood, and so endured until, after
intolerable suspense, they heard the heavy tread of Galors de Born.

His bulk, his white impassive mask, were before them.

"I have settled my account, Prosper," he said. "Now settle yours."

Prosper shivered.

"I am quite ready," said he.

They changed, then crossed swords, and began their second rally on
foot. You would have said that they were sluggish at the work, as if
their blood had cooled with the long wait or sense of still more
dreadful business in the background, and needed a sting to one or
other to set it boiling again. They fenced almost idly at first; it
was cut and parry--formalism. Galors was very steady; Prosper,
breathing tightly through his nose, very wary. Gradually, however,
they warmed to it. Galors got a cut in the upper arm, and began making
ugly rushes, blundering, uncalculated bustles, which could only end
one way. Prosper had little difficulty in evading most of these;
Galors lost his breath and with it his temper. The sight of his own
shield and sword, ever at point against him, made him mad. He could
never reach his adroit enemy, it seemed. For a supreme effort he
feigned, drew back, then made a rush. Prosper parried, recovered, and
let in with a staggering head-cut which for the time dizzied his
opponent. Galors lowered his head under his shield, made another
desperate blind rush, and got to close quarters. The two men struggled
together, fighting as much with shields as swords, and more with legs
and arms than anything else. They were indistinguishable, a twisting
and flashing tangle; they locked, writhed, swayed, tottered--then rent
asunder. Galors fell heavily. He got on his feet again, however, for
another rush. As he came on Prosper stepped aside, knocked out his
guard and slashed at the shoulder--a dreadful thirsty blow. Galors
staggered, his shield dropped; but he came on once more. Another side-
cut beat his weapon down, and then a back-handed blow crashed into his
gorget. He threw up his arms and staggered backwards; a last cut
finished him. Galors with a cough that ended in a wet groan fell like
lead. He never spoke nor moved again.

Prosper sank on his knees, beaten out. Isoult started from the wood to
hold him, but he waved her back. All was not done. He put his sword in
his mouth and crept on all fours to his enemy, lifted his visor,
looked in his face. Then he got up and stood over him. He swung back
the bare sword of Salomon de Born with both hands. It came down, did
its last work and broke.

Prosper threw the pommel from him and lifted up the head of Galors.
The times were grim times. He tied it to his saddle-bow. Then he
turned to Isoult.

"Come," he said, "the fight is done."

They did not stay. He took his own shield and sword from the dead,
girt on the first and slung the latter to the spare saddle. He took
his wife in his arms, not daring to kiss her in such a place, and put
her on Galors' horse; and so they went their way into the misty woods.

Dark Tortsentier took up the watch amid the sighing of its pine-tree
host. Its array of shields, its swords and mail kept their counsel.
The figures in the singular tapestry of Troilus went through their
aping unadmired, and the grey dawn found them at it. Then you might
see how idle Cresseide, peering askance at Maulfry with her sly eyes,
watched the black pool drown her hair.




CHAPTER XXXIV

LA DESIRÉE


Prosper broke the silence there was between them.

"Whither should we go?" he said.

Isoult took the lead. "Follow me, I will lead you. I know the ways."

A great constraint kept him tongue-tied. The prize was his; the
silence, the emptiness, the night, gave him what his sword had earned.
He trembled but dared not put out his hand. What was he--good Lord!--
to touch so rare a thing? He hardly might look at her. The moon showed
him a light muffled figure swaying to the rhythm of the march, the
round of her hooded head, the swing of her body, the play of her white
hand on the rein. Whenever he dared to look her face was turned to
his; he saw the moon-glint in her eyes. He absolutely had nothing to
say, and for the first time in his life felt a clumsy fool.

By all which it would seem that love is a virtue going out of a man as
much as any that enters in.

Isoult was in very different plight, enjoying her brief moment of
triumph, making as it were the most of it. When a woman loves she
humbles herself, and every prostration is matter for an ecstasy. Her
love returned, she ventured to be proud; but this is against the
grain. It is more blessed to give. The freed soul welcomes the prison-
gates and hugs the yoke and the chain.

Just now she was on the verge of her freedom. In thus looking at him
who had been her lord yesterday and would be her lord to-morrow, she
was taking his measure. In her exalted mood she found that she could
read him like a book. There was no doubt about his present docility,
but could she dare to mould it? She must woo, she saw; dare she trail
this steel-armed lord of battles, this grim executant, this trumpet of
God, as a led child by her girdle-ribbons? If hero he had proved in
his own walk, to be sure he shambled pitifully on the edge of hers.
Her superiority sparkled so hard and frosty-bright that she began to
pity him; and so the maid was thawed to be the mother of her man.
Isoult knew she must beguile him now for his soul's ease and her own.

When the ride grew broad and ran like a spit into a lake of soft dark
she stopped. There was moss here, there were lichened heather-roots,
rowan bushes, and a ring of slim birches, silver-shafted, feather-
crowned and light; more than all there was a little pool of water
which two rills fed.

"We will stay here," said Isoult.

Prosper dismounted and helped her down. She felt him trembling as he
held her, whereat her courage rose clear and high.

"I will disarm you"--had she not done it, indeed!--"and dress your
hurts. Then you shall rest and I look at you at last."

"I am not much hurt. We could well go on."

"Nay, you must let me do as I will now. I must disarm you. 'Tis my
right."

She did it, kneeling at his knees or standing before him. For once he
was that delight of a woman in love, her plaything, her toy--her baby,
in a word. She girdled him with her arms at need; her fingers busy at
neck or cheek-pieces unlaced the helm.

"Now kneel."

He obeyed her, and she grew tenderly deft over his wounds. She washed
them clean, bound them up with strips torn from her skirt. She pushed
back his hair from eyes and brows, and washed him clean of blood and
sweat and rage. Her petticoat was her towel; she would have used her
hair, but that she dared not lose command of herself and him. She
wished for once to draw him, not to be drawn.

She knelt down on the moss, touching her lap meaningly as she did so.

"Rest here," said the gesture; "rest here, my dear heart," said the
smile that flew with it.

He knelt beside her--all went well up to this. The moon was low, the
night wearing; but the pure light came flowing through a rent in the
trees, and she caught his look upon her. She tried, but she could not
meet it. Then it befell her that she would not meet it if she could.

Prosper took something from his breast.

"Look," he said, as he held it up.

She watched it quivering in the moonbeams; her eyes brimmed; she grew
blush-red, divinely ashamed.

"Hold your hand out," said Prosper. She had risen to her knees; they
were kneeling face to face, very near.

Isoult's hands were crossed at her neck. Prosper remembered the
gesture. Now she held out her left hand and let him crown it. He held
on--alas! he was growing master every minute.

"Isoult."

"Yes."

"Oh, my dear love, Isoult! Now I shall wed thee, Isoult the Much-
Desired."

She began to shake. But she put her hands up till they rested on his
shoulders. She laughed in a low thrilled tone.

"I am La Desirée now, and no longer La Desirous. For what I desired
was another's desire." Also she said--"Kiss my mouth, and I shall
believe that thou speakest the truth of the heart."

He held her with his hands, looking long and steadily; nor did her
eyes refuse him now. Love was awake and crying between the pair. He
drew her nearer, kissed her on the eyes and on the mouth; and she grew
red and loved him dearly.

So in the soft night, under the forest trees, in the hush that falls
before dawn, those two kissed and comforted one another. It was as in
a field of blood that the rod of love thrust into flower at last. But
the forest which had seen the graft held the flower by right. None
watched their espousal save the trees and the mild faces of the stars.




CHAPTER XXXV

FOREST LOVE


With the sun rose Isoult, transfigured and glorified, Love's rosy
priest. She slipped from her man's arms, hung over him wonderfully,
lightly kissed his forehead without disturbing his deep sleep. Then
she went to bathe herself in the pool, and to bind up her hair. The
woodland was jewelled with dew, it went in misty green and yellow, all
vocal of the joy she had. She was loved! she was loved!

Fresh and full of light she came dancing back, without a trace of the
haggard beauty upon her which had stolen about the ways of Holy Thorn.
Her mouth had the divine childishness, the rippling curves of the
naked god's bow; her eyes were glossy-soft and rayed a light from
within. Warm arms stole round Prosper, a warm cheek was by his, warm
lips kissed him awake. The duet, as of two low-answering doves,
began--

"Is this Isoult la Desirous who cometh?"

"You called me Desirée."

"How long sought, how long prayed for!"

"Found now, and close at last."

"Closer yet, closer yet."

"Oh heart, oh desire! Prosper!"

"Yes."

"Tell me one thing."

"Ask."

"When began you to think of me?"

"Will you put me to shame, Isoult?"

"Never, never! There is no shame in you. Look what I am."

"The purest, the loveliest, the bride of all delight!"

"You are a great lord; and I----"

"The great lord's lady--out of his reach."

"Prosper! No, no. If I am out of reach, reach not for me. Tell me
instead what I ask you."

"But you know when I began, and what you said."

"Ah, it was then?"

"No, it was not then. It was after that. It was when I knew that you
loved me."

"Did you not know from the first? Oh, what men must be! And I called--
as I was called."

"La Desirous? Ah, yes. Tell me now why that was?"

"Yes, I will tell you now." She hid her face on his breast and
whispered her story. "I was twelve years old--a sheepgirl on Marbery
Down. There are many, many herds there, and five of us that kept them
that day, huddling together to be warm. For I was cold enough--in rags
as you have seen me, but worse; my shoulder and side went bare then.
Then there came riding over the brow a company of lords having falcons
on their wrists; and I stood up to watch them fly their birds. There
was an old man, tall and very noble, with white hair and beard, and a
brown keen face; and there were others, young men, and one was a lad,
his son. The lad it was who flew his bird at a heron. The falcon shot
up into the air; she towered over my head where I stood, and after
stooped and fell upon me, and clung to my raiment, pecking at my
heart. And I cried out at the sharpness of the pain, and wrestled with
the falcon to get her off me, but could not for the battling of her
sails. Then the lad, the owner of the hawk, rode up to me and took
away the bird and killed her. He was a ruddy lad, with the bright blue
eyes of his father; but his hair was long and yellow as gold. To me he
gave money, and what was dearer than money and rarer, gentle words.
For he said--'Maiden, my haggard hath done thee a wrong, and I through
her. But when I am a man I will amend it.' Now the wound over my heart
kept fresh and could never be healed; and I was thought shameful for
that, because men said I went bleeding for love. And God knows it was
a true saying."

"Oh, Isoult, was it true, was it true? For that old man was my father,
and the lad was I."

Said Isoult--

"Ah, when thou didst ride into the quarry and foundest me with Galors
there, I knew thee again; and when thou didst wed me the wound stayed
bleeding, but remained fresh. But now--now it is healed."

They turned their lips to each other and murmured comfort with kisses.

"By the Lord," cried he, "I could eat a meal."

"O greedy one, I will put you to shame. All my desire is to take God's
body. For I know that we have had no marriage-mass."

"That is a true saying. But the Host is harder to come by. There is a
place in Morgraunt, nevertheless, where you may hear Mass and break
good bread after. I have been there, but not from here."

"But I have been there too, Prosper, and from here, or near here. I
remember. I know the road."

"Come then, lead me, my bride."

She armed her lord, being now entered into her old self, radiant,
softly fair, guarded, and demure. He also was the man of her choosing,
invincibly lord. They found their beasts near by and were soon on the
way, with their pale trophy hidden in a cloth.

Mass was said by the time they reached the yew-tree close, and saw the
shrine and image of Saint Lucy of the Eyes. Alice of the Hermitage
came out into the open, shading her face against the sun. Prosper she
remembered not, but when she saw Isoult she gave a little cry. The two
girls were in each other's arms in no time.

"Oh, you!"

"Yes, yes, I have come back. And you know me like this?"

"I would know you anywhere, by what you can never cut off"

"Now you must know my lord," said Isoult with a great heart.

Prosper came up.

"Ah, damsel," says he, "you sped me into your forest, and so sped me
to my happiness in spite of myself. Have you forgotten the white bird?
Look again and tell me if I have redeemed the quest."

"Ah, ah," said glowing Alice, "now I remember my dream of the bird. Is
this possible?"

She looked at Isoult. Isoult blushed; but she was all for blushing
just now.

"If it is true," Alice continued, "you make me very happy. Now let me
serve you."

"You shall," said Prosper. "Pray give us something to eat."

"Alice," said Isoult, "it was my lord who taught me how to pray--to
Mother Mary and Saint Isidore. We have had no marriage-mass."

"Ah, that is serious. You are not yet wedded then?"

Isoult blushed again.

"Will the father wed us?" she contented herself to ask.

But Prosper would not have it.

"Nay, by God and His Christ, but we are one soul by now!" he cried.
"The year of agony for her, the year of schooling for me, is past. God
has upheld my arm, and her heart is mine. But I beg of you, Alice,
prevail upon the priest to give us his God and ours. For though we
have been wedded by a Churchman, we have not been wedded by the
Church."

"The father shall do it," said Alice. "Fear nothing."

There were two scruples in the good man's way. If he said Mass twice
in the morning he broke the law of the Church; if he put off his
breakfast, he broke that of nature, which bids a man fill when he is
empty. And the priest was a law-abiding man. In the end, however, the
bride and bridegroom had their marriage-mass. Kneeling on the mossy
stone they received the Sop. Alice of the Hermitage brought two crowns
of briony leaves and scarlet berries; so Morgraunt anointed what
Morgraunt had set apart; the postulants were adept. Afterwards, when
the priest had gone and all things were accomplished, Alice of the
Hermitage kissed a sister and a brother; and then very happily they
broke their bread sitting in the sun.

"Whither now, my lord?" asked Isoult when they had done.

"Ah, to High March, pardieu!" Prosper said; "there is a little work
left for me there. You shall go in as a queen this time. Clothe her as
a queen, Alice, and let us be off."

Alice took her away to be dressed in the red silk robe; she drew on
the silk stockings, the red slippers. Then she went to tire her hair.

"Stay," said Isoult, "and tell me something first."

"What is it, dearest?"

"My hair, how far does it reach by now?"

"Oh! it is a mantle to you, a dusky veil, falling to your knees."

"Now bind it up for me, Alice; it has run to its tether."

The glossy tower was roped with sequins, the bride was ready. Alice
adored her.

"Come and meet the bridegroom," said she.

Prosper watched them coming over the sunny plat. He was not lettered,
yet he should have heard the whisper of the Amorist--_"Behold, thou
art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair, thou hast dove's eyes."_

At least he bowed his knee before her. She could have answered him
then--_"I am as a wall, and my breasts like towers; then was I in
his eyes as one that found favour."_

"Good-bye, my sister Desirée," said Alice of the Hermitage. Tears and
kisses met and answered each other.

"Surely now, surely here is love enough!" she cried as they rode away.
For my part, I am disposed to agree with her. But Prosper found her
glorious.

"Can our lord have enough of incense, or his mother weary of songs?
Can La Desirous sicken of desire?"

For two more nights green Morgraunt made their bed.




CHAPTER XXXVI

THE LADY PIETOSA DE BRÉAUTÉ


Evidently they were expected at High March; for no sooner the white
plumes had cleared the forest purlieus and came nodding over the heath
in view of the solemn towers, than a white flag was run up the keep.
It floated out bravely--a snow patch in a pure sky.

"Peace, hey?" quoth Prosper, asking. "Well then, there shall be peace
if they will take it. It is for them to settle."

Isoult said nothing. She had no reason to welcome High March, or to
attend a welcome. She might have doubted the wisdom of their adventure
had she been less newly a wife. As it was, she would have followed her
man into the jaws of hell.

When they drew closer still, they could see that the great gates were
set open and the drawbridge let down. Soon the guard turned out and
presented arms. Then issued in good order a white-robed procession,
girls and boys bare-headed, holding branches of palm. A rider in green
marshalled them with a long white wand which he had in his right hand.
It was all very curious.

"I should know that copper-headed knave," said Prosper.

"It is the seneschal, dear lord," said Isoult, who would know him
better, "with his white rod of office."

Prosper gave a mighty shout. "Master Porges, by the Holy Rood! Oh,
Master Porges, Master Porges, have you not yet enough of rods white or
black? Look how the rascal wags the thing. Why, hark, child, he has
set them singing."

The shrill voices, in effect, rose and fell along the devious ways of
a litany to Master Porges' household gods. Mention has already been
made of his curiosity in these commodities. The present times he had
judged to be times of crisis, big with fate. Who so apt as his newest
saint to propitiate the hardy outlaw Galors de Born, and the young
Demoiselle de Bréauté?

For the shocked soul of Porges had fled into religion as your only
cure for esteem and a back cruelly scored. In such stresses as the
present it still took wing to the same courts. "_Sancta Isolda,
Sancta Isolda, Genetricis Ancilla,_" went the choir, "_Ora, ora
pro nobis._"

And then--

  "_Quoe de coelis volitans,
  Sacras manus agitans,
  Foves in suppliciis
  Me, ne extra gregulo
  Tuo unus ferulo
  Pereat in vitiis._"...

and so on. The youngsters sang with a good will, while Master Porges,
as poet and man of piety, glowed in his skin. The verse limped, the
Latin had suffered, perhaps, more violence than Latin should be asked
to suffer even of a Christian: but what of that? It was the pietist's
own; and as his pupils sang it, they bore before his eyes the holy
image of the saint trampling under her feet the hulking thief Prosper.
And gaily they bore it, and gaily sang their unwitting way towards the
unwitting couple of lovers, who never let go hands until they were
near enough to feel all eyes burn into them to read their secret.

This was vastly well; but Master Porges' present bent was towards
policy. Her ladyship had advised with him in her new occasions. "Sir
Galors de Born," she had said, "is a late enemy of mine no longer to
be feared, since I have won back all my fiefs by the readiness and
prudent discretion of the High Bailiff of Wanmeeting."

This good man had indeed made the most of his achievements, and,
reflecting that Prosper had gone alone to tackle Galors,--whereof he
was indubitably dead,--and that it was a pity no one should be any the
better for such a mishap, had told the whole story to his mistress,
carefully leaving the hero's name out of account. "For why," said the
Bailiff, "cause a woman to shed unavailing tears?"

"Remember, however," the Countess went on, "that this Galors may be
the escort of the Lady Pietosa de Bréauté, my daughter and your
mistress, to her home. Pay him then the respect due to such an
esquire, but no more. Receive from him my Lady Pietosa, and put
yourself between her and him--yourself at her right hand and in the
middle. She is not his; at the worst of all he is hers."

Master Porges bowed, observing. Here was need of a high stroke of
policy. Now policy to him meant mastery, and mastery when it did not
mean a drubbing, as it had done with Prosper (the greatest politician
he had ever known), meant a snubbing. With a cue from Prosper's
handling of the science, Master Porges thought he could show Galors,
politically, his place.

The white-robed throng of singers stopped, with wondering simple
faces, before the great black knight and his rose-clad lady. Prosper
doubtless looked grim--he hardly filled the headpiece of Galors: the
white wicket-gates, with many a dint across them, gleamed harshly from
the coal-black shield. _Entra per me_ had an uncompromising ring
about it. His visor was down; he did not wish them to see a too good-
humoured face until he had exacted a tribute.

But Master Porges cantered up with many a sweep of hand and cap to the
lady.

"My lady, welcome to your halls and smiling goodly lands. We have done
what honour we might. Your ladyship will read it for an earnest of our
duties and good-will."

Thus Porges. Isoult sat wondering, very much confused. She was coming
in as a queen indeed. Master Porges went on to handle the esquire.

"Master Galors, good-day to you," he said. "My lady the Countess of
Hauterive hath heard of you. She may possibly send for you anon. In
the meantime, in the pendency of her motions to that grace, I am to
receive from you the Lady Pietosa, who has suffered your attentions so
far, and who thanks you, through me, her inherited minister. At your
ladyship's pleasure now. Follow us, good Master Galors."

Unfortunately Prosper saw no need for playing Galors just then. But
the seneschal always pleased him.

"Master Porges," he said in his suavest tones, "the gentleman you name
is indisposed to wait very long--he must not indeed be delayed--and is
wholly incapable of travel unattended. He must therefore ride where I
ride. As for the lady upon whom you bestow so decorous a name, I
cannot answer. The lady whom I escort will please herself. Step behind
us, Master Porges, I entreat of you. You would not ask so much of Sir
Galors de Born if you knew him as well as I do."

"Now, who is this? What am I then, Messire?" the seneschal gasped.

"You are the most worshipful Master Porges, if I am right, by the
grace of God Seneschal of High March, and so forth."

"Ah! Good! And you, sir?"

"I am not Galors de Born," replied Prosper modestly, "though he is not
far removed from me."

"You bear his coat, Messire."

"Ah, Saint Mary! I bear more than that of his."

"Messire, I have it in command----"

"And I have it to command. Behind, sir," said Prosper shortly and
finally. Then he rode forward with Isoult and met the minstrels.

"My little singers," cried he, "sing your blithest now, and take us
happily to the Castle. Come--

  "'Love is Lord of the land,
  Master of maid and man;
  Goeth in green with a ruddy face,
  Heartening whom he can,'" etc., etc.

The thing was a country catch which he had himself caught up from the
High March maids. It went to a free breathless measure, ran easily
into a gallop, must be jigged to. The fluttering cavalcade came
skipping home, all save the boy who carried Sancta Isolda, and he at
last tucked her under his arm and tripped with the rest. So it befel
that the man of policy came in the rear; so also it befel that, when
at the gates Prosper demanded his audience, Master Porges went in
chastened with the message, and came back still more chapfallen to
report--that her ladyship, his mistress, would receive the messenger
of Sir Galors de Born at once, with the lady in his escort. Thus
finally Prosper, with Isoult behind him, stood in the great hall, and
saw the Countess Isabel trembling on the dais.

She came down the way left her by the assembled household, pale and
misty with tears to meet them. Prosper was softened at once, but
before he could speak she was holding out her hands to him as a
suppliant, striving to steady her voice.

"Oh, Galors," she began, "thou hast been my enemy declared for no
fault of mine, and dreadful wrong hast thou done to many harmless folk
who had never wronged thee. Yet, if I had never won back what was
mine, and still owed thee a living grudge instead of a grudge for the
unhappy dead, for the sake of her thou bringest me I must receive thee
here. Now give me that which thou didst promise. Let me see her."

Prosper stood melted by the pent passion of the woman, but by her
words stricken dumb. He understood that she should think him Galors,
and cared little if she did, for discovery must make his case the
stronger. But what she wanted with Isoult, what Galors had promised on
her score, passed all comprehension. He thought he knew enough of the
Countess to be sure she would not lightly forgive; yet here was the
Countess asking to see the girl who had made a fool of her! Withal her
need was painfully plain. He therefore took Isoult by the hand and led
her forward.

The Countess, shaking so that she could hardly stand, caught the girl
from him. But she could not look at her, only steadied herself by
clutching at her arms.

"Let me see the token," says she in an eager whisper.

So then Isoult unfastened her gown and took it out by its golden
chain.

The Countess received it in both hands as a relic. Yet hand and head
shook too much that she might see it. The poor lady held her wrist
with the other hand, lifted it up near her face; then she blinked her
eyes close to it. So for some time she remained, looking upon the
jewel, but seeing nothing, seeming to love the feel of it in her
hands, and crying all the while freely and noiselessly with streams of
tears down her cheeks. Next she dropped the crystal and took Isoult by
the shoulders, to peer in the same blind fashion into the girl's
wondering eyes. And then at last, with a little smothered cry, she
caught her to her bosom, straining her there with desperate hunger of
affection, while her tears and passionate weeping shook and shuddered
through her. In broken words, with sobs, half-moaning prayers, and
half-crazy thanksgivings, she spoiled herself of the tenderness and
frantic love a mother has, but no other under heaven.

Commanding herself in time, she raised her marred face high above her
daughter, who lay close in her arms, and turning to Prosper, said
steadily enough--

"Galors, now declare thyself. Thou hast spoken so far the truth. This
is my true daughter, Pietosa de Bréauté, the daughter of my murdered
lord, Fulk de Bréauté, born in wedlock, and by me suffered to be
stolen away by him who first stole my body (but never my soul) from my
lord. Now ask of me, and I will give thee all, even to this treasure
at my breast. Declare thyself."

Prosper forgot everything but to blurt out his wonder.

"Galors, madam, Galors! But I am not Galors, good Lord! Ah!" (and he
pulled up his visor). "Look upon me, madam, and judge if I am Galors."

The Countess gasped, then blushed: all the household grew dumb. Master
Porges went out suddenly into the air. The first to recover breath was
the lady paramount.

"Ah, my Lord Prosper le Gai," she said, "in your revenge I see your
father's son. Should I not have known? I am at your mercy, my lord.
You have struck me hard at last, harder than before, but may be not
harder than I deserve."

"Madam," said Prosper, "it seems I have struck you harder and nearer
than I knew. For your present joy has given me the most wondrous news
that ever I had in the world."

"But the letter of Galors, was it not from you?" she cried out.

"I know nothing of letters from Galors, Countess. When I write it is
in my own name."

"There is mystery here. He wrote me of my daughter, that he would
bring her--ah, and take her again. She has come as he said. But where
is Galors?"

Prosper lifted on high the head of his enemy. "Here he is," said he.

A timely diversion was caused here by a certain red-cheeked girl, by
name Melot. She had already proved the sharpness of her sloe-black
eyes; she proved it now again by seeing, alone of all that company,
the hounded page-boy in the Lady Pietosa de Bréauté. After her first
gape of re-discovery, being a girl of parts, conscious that generosity
was afoot, she edged her way to the front, stooped suddenly and caught
at the hem of the red silk robe to kiss it.

"What is this, wench?" said the Countess, glad of the relief.

Then said Melot on her knees, "My lady, I do this because I was the
first who sinfully found out your ladyship's lady daughter when she
was here before like a boy; and I pray her pardon, and yours, my lady,
and yours again, Messire, for the deadly sin I did."

Red-cheeked Melot ran on glibly up to this point on a beaten track.
All maidens of her class wallow in contrition. But when her words
failed her, she sought a distressed lady's proper shelter, and began
to cry. Isoult stooped and caught her up before she could be stayed.
She was too newly a Countess, you see.

"This is Roy's answer to thee, Melot," she laughed, and kissed the
rogue.

But for Isabel, long a Countess--otherwise. This unhappy lady felt
herself whipped. Her abasement was now so deep, so desolately did she
stand among her dependents, a naked woman spoiled of all her robes,
that Prosper's honest heart smote him.

"Countess," he said, smiling, "will you give me what Galors might have
won?"

But Isoult did better still. She came back to her mother's breast, put
up her hand timidly and touched the cold cheek. "Mother," was all she
said. It was all the woman needed to cover her shame in a cloak of
warm tears. The two wept together, and then Prosper knelt to his
mother-in-law's hand.

But the Countess was stronger than he had thought. In truth, she never
spared herself any of her dignities. Her humility now became her
admirably; never was she more certainly the great lady of romance than
when she led Prosper and Isoult to the dais, set them each on a
throne, and then, turning to her people, opened her hands to them, her
heart, and her conscience.

"Lo! you now," she cried out, "heed what I shall speak. This is the
Lady Pietosa, called Isoult le Gai, my daughter indeed, Countess after
me of Hauterive, Lady of Morgraunt and the purlieus, whom I, unknowing
and to my shame, despised and misused--unworthy mother, that in trying
to befoul the spotless but stained herself the deeper. And you,
people, sheep of a hireling shepherd, followed in my ways and became
as I am, most miserable in shame. If now I lead you aright, follow me
also that road. You shall kneel therefore with me to the young
Countess and to the Earl (in her right), my Lord Prosper."

Before either could stop her she was on her knees at her daughter's
foot. Isoult dropped with a little cry, but the elder had her way. She
kissed the foot, and then stood by the throne to watch the homage
paid.

One by one they came sidling up. Melot was pushed into the front rank;
her shrewdness paid so much penalty. She knelt and laid her forehead
on the ground. Isoult lightly set her foot on the bowed head; but he
who watched the ceremony with dimmed eyes saw that the treader was the
humblest there.

Master Porges, flap-cheeked and stertorous, grovelled like a fat
spaniel. Prosper came to the rescue as he swam up to the height of a
man again, gasping for the air. "Ah, seneschal," he said, "we each
love honour and ensue it after our fashion. We should be better
acquainted."

The seneschal kissed his hand, and never doubted for one moment more
but that Prosper was the pattern of knighthood. The image-maker at
March was thereafter busy with the figure of one in the similitude of
an Archangel, under whom ran the legend-"_Properate vias ejus_."
It is reported that he had a further commission for a great bronze
Saint Isidore, destined to the chapel at High March.

Days of festival followed, with jousting and minstrelsy. Isoult sat in
a green silk bower, clothed all in white, her black hair twisted with
pearls, a crown of red roses upon all. The hooded falcon showed again
on baldrick and girdle, the _fesse dancettée_ flickered on a new
shield, the red plumes danced; "Bide the Time" was the cry. After this
came all the mesne lords to do homage for their lands, and among them
was Malise le Gai, Lord of Starning and Parrox. Prosper, when the two
met, laughed at him, made him angry, got forgiven, and shook hands. He
thus put the man at his ease, and won a tolerable friendship with his
brother against the time when the elder would be, in respect of
certain fiefs, the vassal of the younger. But from Goltres came none
to do fealty, nor from Hauterive, nor from Malbank Saint Thorn.
Goltres, in fact, was escheat, and granted out to Prosper's brother
Osric and his new wife from Prè. A new abbot was set over Holy Thorn;
but the charter of pit and gallows was revoked by the Countess, withal
she said--"It was the granting of that charter which won me my child
again."

It does not appear that there is anything more to record.

"What am I to call you, lady wife?" said Prosper, when he had her in
his arms again.

"Ah, lord, thou shouldst know by now!"

"Pietosa?"

"Prosper!"

"Isoult la Desirée?

"If you must."

"Isoult la Desirous?"

"It would be true.

"What will you have then, child?"

"Ah, ah, I will have that!"

It was, after all, but a rosy child that Prosper kissed.

EXPLICIT





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Forest Lovers, by Maurice Hewlett





The Distributed Proofreading Team



FORTITUDE

by

Hugh Walpole







To

Charles Maude

The best of friends and the most honest of critics




CONTENTS


BOOK I: SCAW HOUSE

    I  INTRODUCTION TO COURAGE

   II  HOW THE WESTCOTT FAMILY SAT UP FOR PETER

  III  OF THE DARK SHOP OF ZACHARY TAN, AND OF THE DECISIONS THAT THE
         PEOPLE IN SCAW HOUSE CAME TO CONCERNING PETER

   IV  IN WHICH "DAWSON'S," AS THE GATE OF LIFE, IS PROVED A DISAPPOINTMENT

    V  DAWSON'S, THE GATE INTO HELL

   VI  A LOOKING-GLASS, A SILVER MATCH-BOX, A GLASS OF WHISKY, AND
         VOX POPULI

  VII  PRIDE OF LIFE

 VIII  PETER AND HIS MOTHER

   IX  THE THREE WESTCOTTS

    X  SUNLIGHT, LIMELIGHT, DAYLIGHT

   XI  ALL KINDS OF FOG IN THE CHARING CROSS ROAD

  XII  BROCKETT'S: ITS CHARACTERS AND ESPECIALLY MRS. BROCKETT


BOOK II: THE BOOKSHOP

    I  "REUBEN HALLARD"

   II  THE MAN ON THE LION

  III  ROYAL PERSONAGES ARE COMING

   IV  A LITTLE DUST

    V  A NARROW STREET

   VI  THE WORLD AND BUCKET LANE

  VII  DEVIL'S MARCH

 VIII  STEPHEN'S CHAPTER


BOOK III: THE ROUNDABOUT

    I  NO. 72, CHEYNE WALK

   II  A CHAPTER ABOUT SUCCESS: HOW TO WIN IT, HOW TO KEEP IT--WITH A
         NOTE AT THE END FROM HENRY GALLEON

  III  THE ENCOUNTER

   IV  THE ROUNDABOUT

    V  THE IN-BETWEENS

   VI  BIRTH OF THE HEIR

  VII  DECLARATION OF HAPPINESS

 VIII  BLINDS DOWN

   IX  WILD MEN

    X  ROCKING THE ROUNDABOUT

   XI  WHY?

  XII  A WOMAN CALLED ROSE BENNETT

 XIII  "MORTIMER STANT"

  XIV  PETER BUYS A PRESENT

   XV  MR. WESTCOTT SENIOR CALLS CHECKMATE


BOOK IV: SCAW HOUSE

    I  THE SEA

   II  SCAW HOUSE

  III  NORAH MONOGUE

   IV  THE GREY HILL




BOOK I

SCAW HOUSE




CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTION TO COURAGE


I

"'Tisn't life that matters! 'Tis the courage you bring to it" ... this from
old Frosted Moses in the warm corner by the door. There might have been an
answer, but Dicky Tasset, the Town Idiot, filled in the pause with the tale
that he was telling Mother Figgis. "And I ran--a mile or more with the
stars dotted all over the ground for yer pickin', as yer might say...."

A little boy, Peter Westcott, heard what old Frosted Moses had said, and
turned it over in his mind. He was twelve years old, was short and
thick-necked, and just now looked very small because he was perched on so
high a chair. It was one of the four ancient chairs that Sam Figgis always
kept in the great kitchen behind the taproom. He kept them there partly
because they were so very old and partly because they fell in so pleasantly
with the ancient colour and strength of the black smoky rafters. The four
ancient chairs were carved up the legs with faces and arms and strange
crawling animals and their backs were twisted into the oddest shapes and
were uncomfortable to lean against, but Peter Westcott sat up very straight
with his little legs dangling in front of him and his grey eyes all over
the room at once. He could not see all of the room because there were
depths that the darkness seized and filled, and the great fiery place, with
its black-stained settle, was full of mysterious shadows. A huge fire was
burning and leaping in the fastnesses of that stone cavity, and it was by
the light of this alone that the room was illumined--and this had the
effect as Peter noticed, of making certain people, like Mother Figgis and
Jane Clewer, quite monstrous, and fantastic with their skirts and hair and
their shadows on the wall. Before Frosted Moses had said that sentence
about Courage, Peter had been taking the room in. Because he had been there
very often before he knew every flagstone in the floor and every rafter in
the roof and all the sporting pictures on the walls, and the long shining
row of mugs and coloured plates by the fire-place and the cured hams
hanging from the ceiling ... but to-night was Christmas Eve and a very
especial occasion, and he was sure to be beaten when he got home, and so
must make the very most of his time. He watched the door also for Stephen
Brant, who was late, but might arrive at any moment. Had it not been for
Stephen Brant Peter knew that he would not have been allowed there at
all. The Order of the Kitchen was jealously guarded and Sam Figgis, the
Inn-keeper, would have considered so small a child a nuisance, but Stephen
was the most popular man in the county, and he had promised that Peter
would be quiet--and he _was_ quiet, even at that age; no one could be so
quiet as Peter when he chose. And then they liked the boy after a time. He
was never in the way, and he was wonderfully wise for his years: he was a
strong kid, too, and had muscles....

So Peter crept there when he could, although it very often meant a beating
afterwards, but the Kitchen was worth a good many beatings, and he would
have gone through Hell--and did indeed go through his own special Hell on
many occasions--to be in Stephen's company. They were all nice to him even
when Stephen wasn't there, but there were other reasons, besides the
people, that drew Peter to the place.

It was partly perhaps because The Bending Mule was built right out into the
sea, being surrounded on three sides by water. This was all twenty years
ago, and I believe that now the Inn has been turned into an Arts Club, and
there are tea-parties and weekly fashion papers where there had once been
those bloody fights and Mother Figgis sitting like some witch over the
fire; but it is no matter. Treliss is changed, of course, and so is the
world, and there are politeness and sentiment where once there were oaths
and ferocity, and there is much soap instead of grimy hands and unwashen
faces ... and the fishing is sadly on the decline, but there are good
drapers' shops in the town.

For Peter the charm of the place was that "he was out at sea." One could
hear quite distinctly the lap of the waves against the walls and on stormy
nights the water screamed and fought and raged outside and rolled in
thundering echoes along the shore. To-night everything was still, and the
snow was falling heavily, solemnly over the town.

The snow, and the black sea, and the lights that rose tier on tier like
crowds at a circus, could be seen through the uncurtained windows.

The snow and quiet of the world "out-along" made the lights and warmth of
the room the more comforting and exciting, and Sam Figgis had hung holly
about the walls and dangled a huge bunch of mistletoe from the middle beam
and poor Jane Clewer was always walking under it accidentally and waiting a
little, but nobody kissed her. These things Peter noticed; he also noticed
that Dicky the Idiot was allowed to be present as a very great favour
because it was Christmas Eve and snowing so hard, that the room was more
crowded than he had ever seen it, and that Mother Figgis, with her round
face and her gnarled and knotted hands, was at her very merriest and in the
best of tempers. All these things Peter had noticed before Frosted Moses
(so called because of his long white beard and wonderful age) made his
remark about Courage, but as soon as that remark was made Peter's thoughts
were on to it as the hounds are on to a fox.

"'Tisn't life that matters, but the Courage yer bring to it...."

That, of course, at once explained everything. It explained his own father
and his home, it explained poor Mrs. Prothero and her two sons who were
drowned, it explained Stephen's cousin who was never free from the most
painful rheumatics, and it explained Stephen himself who was never afraid
of any one or anything. Peter stared at Frosted Moses, whose white beard
was shining in the fire-place and his boots were like large black boats;
but the old man was drawing at his pipe, and had made his remark apparently
in connection with nothing at all. Peter was also disappointed to see that
the room at large had paid no attention to the declaration.

Courage. That was what they were all there for, and soon, later in the
evening, he would take his beating like a man, and would not cry out as
he had done the last time. And then, at the thought of the beating, he
shivered a little on his tall chair and his two short legs in their black
stockings beat against the wooden bars, and wished that he might have
stayed in some dark corner of The Bending Mule during the rest of the night
and not go home until the morning--or, indeed, a very much better and
happier thing, never go home again at all. He would get a worse beating for
staying out so late, but it was something of a comfort to reflect that
he would have been beaten in any case; old Simon Parlow, who taught him
mathematics and Latin, with a little geography and history during six days
of the week, had given him that morning a letter to his father directed in
the old man's most beautiful handwriting to the effect that Master Westcott
had made no progress at all in his sums during the last fortnight, had
indeed made no attempt at progress, and had given William Daffoll, the
rector's son, a bleeding nose last Wednesday when he ought to have been
adding, dividing, and subtracting. Old Parlow had shown him the letter so
that Peter knew that there was no escape, unless indeed Peter destroyed the
paper, and that only meant that punishment was deferred.

Yes, it meant a beating, and Peter had hung about the town and the shore
all the afternoon and evening because he was afraid. This fact of his fear
puzzled him and he had often considered the matter. He was not, in any
other way, a coward, and he had done, on many occasions, things that other
friends of his own age had hung back from, but the thought of his father
made him quite sick with fear somewhere in the middle of his stomach. He
considered the matter very carefully and he decided at last (and he was
very young for so terrible a discovery) that it was because his father
liked beating him that he was afraid. He knew that his father liked it
because he had watched his mouth and had heard the noise that came through
his lips. And this, again, was rather strange because his father did not
look as though he would like it; he had a cold face like a stone and was
always in black clothes, but he did not, as a rule, show that he was
pleased or angry or sorry--he never showed things.

Now these words of Frosted Moses explained everything. It was because his
father knew that it was Courage that mattered that he liked to beat Peter
... it was good for Peter to learn Courage.

"'Tisn't life that matters" ... it isn't a beating that matters....

Frosted Moses was a great deal wiser than old Simon Parlow, who, in spite
of his knowing so much about sums, knew nothing whatever about life. He
knew nothing whatever about Courage either and shook like a leaf when his
sister, Miss Jessel Parlow, was angry with him, as she very often had
reason to be. Peter despised the old man with his long yellow tooth that
hung over his lower lip, and his dirty grey hair that strayed from under
his greasy black velvet cap (like wisps of hay). Peter never cared anything
for the words or the deeds of old Parlow.... But Frosted Moses! ... he had
lived for ever, and people said that he could never die. Peter had heard
that he had been in the Ark with Noah, and he had often wished to ask him
questions about that interesting period, about Ham, Shem and Japheth, and
about the animals. Of course, therefore, he knew everything about Life, and
this remark of his about Courage was worth considering. Peter watched him
very solemnly and noticed how his white beard shone in the fire-light, how
there was a red handkerchief falling out of one enormous pocket, and how
there was a big silver ring on one brown and bony finger ... and then the
crowd of sailors at the door parted, and Stephen Brant came in.


II

Stephen Brant, the most wonderful person in the world! Always, through
life, Peter must have his most wonderful person, and sometimes those Heroes
knew of it and lived up to his worshipping and sometimes they knew of it
and could not live up to it, but most frequently they never knew because
Peter did not let them see. This Hero worship is at the back of a great
deal that happened to Peter, of a great deal of his sorrow, and of all of
his joy, and he would not have been Peter without it; very often these
Heroes, poor things, came tumbling from their pedestals, often they came,
in very shame, down of their own accord, and perhaps of them all Stephen
only was worthy of his elevation, and he never knew that he was elevated.

He knew now, of course, that Peter loved him; but Peter was a little boy,
and was taken by persons who were strong and liked a laugh and were kind in
little ways. Stephen knew that when Peter grew older he must love other and
wiser people. He was a very large man, six foot three and broad, with a
brown beard, and grey eyes like Peter's. He had been a fisherman, but now
he was a farmer, because it paid better--he had an old mother, one enemy,
and very many friends; he had loved a girl, and she had been engaged to him
for two years, but another man had taken her away and married her--and that
is why he had an enemy. He greeted his friends and kissed poor Jane Clewer
under the mistletoe, and then kissed old Mother Figgis, who pushed him away
with a laugh and "Coom up there--where are yer at?"--and Peter watched him
until his turn also should come. His legs were beating the wooden bars
again with excitement, but he would not say anything. He saw Stephen
as something very much larger and more stupendous than any one else in
the room. There were men there bigger of body perhaps, and men who were
richer--Stephen had only four cows on his farm and he never did much with
his hay--but there was no one who could change a room simply by entering it
as Stephen could.

At last the moment came--Stephen turned round--"Why, boy!"

Peter was glad that the rest of the room was busied once more with its
talking, laughing, and drinking, and some old man (sitting on a table and
his nose coming through the tobacco-smoke like a rat through a hole in the
wall) had struck up a tune on a fiddle. Peter was glad, because no one
watched them together. He liked to meet Stephen in private. He buried his
small hand in the brown depths of Stephen's large one, and then as Stephen
looked uncertainly round the room, he whispered: "Steve--my chair, and me
sitting on you--please."

It was a piece of impertinence to call him "Steve," of course, and when
other people were there it was "Mr. Brant," but in their own privacy it was
their own affair. Peter slipped down from his chair, and Stephen sat down
on it, and then Peter was lifted up and leant his head back somewhere
against the middle button of Stephen's waistcoat, just where his heart was
noisiest, and he could feel the hard outline of Stephen's enormous silver
watch that his family had had, so Stephen said, for a hundred years. Now
was the blissful time, the perfect moment. The rest of the world was busied
with life--the window showed the dull and then suddenly shining flakes of
snow, the lights and the limitless sea--the room showed the sanded floor,
the crowd of fishermen drinking, their feet moving already to the tune
of the fiddle, the fisher girls with their coloured shawls, the great,
swinging smoky lamp, the huge fire, Dicky the fool, Mother Figgis, fat Sam
the host, old Frosted Moses ... the gay romantic world--and these two
in their corner, and Peter so happy that no beatings in the world could
terrify.

"But, boy," says Stephen, bending down so that the end of his beard tickles
Peter's neck, "what are yer doing here so late? Your father ...?"

"I'm going back to be beaten, of course."

"If yer go now perhaps yer won't be beaten so bad?"

"Oh, Steve! ... I'm staying ... like this ... always."

But Peter knew, in spite of the way that the big brown hand pressed his
white one in sympathy, that Stephen was worried and that he was thinking
of something. He knew, although he could not see, that Stephen's eyes were
staring right across the room and that they were looking, in the way that
they had, past walls and windows and streets--somewhere for something....

Peter knew a little about Stephen's trouble. He did not understand it
altogether, but he had seen the change in Stephen, and he knew that he was
often very sad, and that moods came upon him when he could do nothing but
think and watch and wait--and then his face grew very grey and his eyes
very hard, and his hands were clenched. Peter knew that Stephen had an
enemy, and that one day he would meet him.

Some of the men and girls were dancing now in the middle of the room. The
floor and the walls shook a little with the noise that the heavy boots of
the fishermen made and the smoky lamp swung from side to side. The heat was
great and some one opened the window and the snow came swirling, in little
waves and eddies, in and out, blown by the breeze--dark and heavy outside
against the clouded sky, white and delicate and swiftly vanishing in the
room. Dicky the Fool came across the floor and talked to Stephen in his
smiling, rambling way. People pitied Dicky and shook their heads when his
name was mentioned, but Peter never could understand this because the Fool
seemed always to be happy and cheerful, and he saw so many things that
other people never saw at all. It was only when he was drunk that he was
unhappy, and he was pleased with such very little things, and he told such
_wonderful_ stories.

Stephen was always kind to the Fool, and the Fool worshipped him, but
to-night Peter saw that he was paying no heed to the Fool's talk. The Fool
had a story about three stars that he had seen rolling down the Grey Hill,
and behold, when they got to the bottom--"little bright nickety things,
like new saxpennies--it was suddenly so dark that Dicky had to light his
lantern and grope his way home with that, and all the frogs began croaking
down in the marsh 'something terrible'--now what was the meaning of that?"

But Stephen was paying no attention. His eyes were set on the open window
and the drifting snow. Men came in stamping their great boots on the floor
and rubbing their hands together--the fiddle was playing more madly than
ever--and at every moment some couple would stop under the mistletoe and
the girl would scream and laugh, and the man's kiss could be heard all over
the room; through the open window came the sound of church bells.

Stephen bent down and whispered in the boy's ear: "Yer'd best be going now,
Peter, lad. 'Tis half-past nine and, chance, if yer go back now yer lickin'
'ull not be so bad."

But Peter whispered back: "Not yet, Stephen--a little while longer."

Peter was tremendously excited. He could never remember being quite so
excited before. It was all very thrilling, of course, with the dancing and
the music and the lights, but there was more than that in it. Stephen was
so unlike himself, but then possibly Christmas made him sad, because he
would be thinking of last Christmas and the happy time that he had had
because his girl had been with him--but there was more than that in it.
Then, suddenly, a curious thing happened to Peter. He was not asleep, he
was not even drowsy--he was sitting with his eyes wide open, staring at the
window. He saw the window with its dark frame, and he saw the snow .. and
then, in an instant, the room, the people, the music, the tramping of feet,
the roar of voices, these things were all swept away, and instead there
was absolute stillness, only the noise that a little wind makes when it
rustles through the blades of grass, and above him rose the Grey Hill
with its funny sugar-loaf top and against it heavy black clouds were
driving--outlined sharply against the sky was the straight stone pillar
that stood in the summit of the Grey Hill and was called by the people the
Giant's Finger. He could hear some sheep crying in the distance and the
tinkling of their bells. Then suddenly the picture was swept away, and the
room and the people and the dancing were before him and around him once
more. He was not surprised by this--it had happened to him before at the
most curious times, he had seen, in the same way, the Grey Hill and the
Giant's Finger and he had felt the cold wind about his neck, and always
something had happened.

"Stephen," he whispered, "Stephen--"

But Stephen's hand was crushing his hand like an iron glove, and Stephen's
eyes were staring, like the eyes of a wild animal, at the door. A man, a
short, square man with a muffler round his throat, and a little mouth and
little ears, had come in and was standing by the door, looking round the
room.

Stephen whispered gently in Peter's ear: "Run home, Peter boy," and he
kissed him very softly on the cheek--then he put him down on the floor.

Stephen rose from his chair and stood for an instant staring at the door.
Then he walked across the room, brushing the people aside, and tapped the
little man with the muffler on the shoulder:

"Samuel Burstead," he said, "good evenin' to yer."


III

All the room seemed to cease moving and talking at the moment when Stephen
Brant said that. They stood where they were like the people in the
_Sleeping Beauty_, and Peter climbed up on to his chair again to see what
was going to happen. He pulled up his stockings, and then sat forward
in his chair with his eyes gazing at Stephen and his hands very tightly
clenched. When, afterwards, he grew up and thought at all about his
childhood, this scene always remained, over and beyond all the others. He
wondered sometimes why it was that he remembered it all so clearly, that
he had it so dramatically and forcibly before him, when many more recent
happenings were clouded and dull, but when he was older he knew that it was
because it stood for so much of his life, it was because that Christmas Eve
in those dim days was really the beginning of everything, and in the later
interpretation of it so much might be understood.

But, to a boy of that age, the things that stood out were not, of
necessity, the right things and any unreality that it might have had was
due perhaps to his fastening on the incidental, fantastic things that a
small child notices, always more vividly than a grown person. In the very
first instant of Stephen's speaking to the man with the muffler it was
Dicky the Fool's open mouth and staring eyes that showed Peter how
important it was. The Fool had risen from his chair and was standing
leaning forward, his back black against the blazing fire, his silly mouth
agape and great terror in his eyes. Being odd in his mind, he felt perhaps
something in the air that the others did not feel, and Peter seemed to
catch fright from his staring eyes.

The man at the door had turned round when Stephen Brant spoke to him, and
had pushed his way out of the crowd of men and stood alone fingering his
neck.

"I'm here, Stephen Brant, if yer want me."

Sam Figgis came forward then and said something to Stephen, and then
shrugged his shoulders and went back to his wife. He seemed to feel that no
one could interfere between the two men--it was too late for interference.
Then things happened very quickly. Peter saw that they had all--men and
women--crowded back against the benches and the wall and were watching,
very silently and with great excitement. He found it very difficult to see,
but he bent his head and peered through the legs of a big fisherman in
front of him. He was shaking all over his body. Stephen had never before
appeared so terrible to him; he had seen him when he was very angry and
when he was cross and ill-tempered, but now he was very ominous in his
quiet way, and his eyes seemed to have changed colour. The small boy
could only see the middle of the floor and pieces of legs and skirts and
trousers, but he knew by the feeling in the room that Stephen and the
little man were going to fight. Then he moved his head round and saw
between two shoulders, and he saw that the two men were stripping to the
waist. The centre of the room was cleared, and Sam Figgis came forward to
speak to Stephen again, and this time there was more noise, and the people
began to shout out loud and the men grew more and more excited. There had
often been fights in that room before, and Peter had witnessed one or two,
but there had never been this solemnity and ceremony--every one was very
grave. It did not occur to Peter that it was odd that it should be allowed;
no one thought of policemen twenty years ago in Treliss and Sam Figgis was
more of a monarch in The Bending Mule than Queen Victoria. And now two of
the famous old chairs were placed at opposite corners, and quite silently
two men, with serious faces, as though this were the most important hour of
their life, stood behind them. Stephen and the other man, stripped to their
short woollen drawers, came into the middle of the room. Stephen had hair
all over his chest, and his arms and his neck were tremendous; and Peter as
he looked at him thought that he must be the strongest man in the world.
His enemy was smooth and shiny, but he seemed very strong, and you could
see the muscles of his arms and legs move under his skin. Some one had
marked a circle with chalk, and all the men and women, quite silent now,
made a dark line along the wall. The lamp in the middle of the room was
still swinging a little, and they had forgotten to close the window, so
that the snow, which was falling more lightly now, came in little clouds
with breaths of wind, into the room--and the bells were yet pealing and
could be heard very plainly against the silence.

Then Sam Figgis, who was standing with his legs wide apart, said something
that Peter could not catch, and a little sigh of excitement went up all
round the room. Peter, who was clutching his chair with both hands, and
choking, very painfully, in his throat, knew, although he had no reason for
his knowledge, that the little man with the shining chest meant to kill
Stephen if he could.

The two men moved round the circle very slowly with their fists clenched
and their eyes watching every movement--then, suddenly, they closed. At
once Peter saw that the little man was very clever, cleverer than Stephen.
He moved with amazing quickness. Stephen's blows came like sledge-hammers,
and sometimes they fell with a dull heavy sound on the other man's face and
on his chest, but more often they missed altogether. The man seemed to be
everywhere at once, and although the blows that he gave Stephen seemed to
have little effect yet he got past the other's defence again and again.

Then, again, the figures in front of Peter closed in and he saw nothing. He
stood on his chair--no one noticed him now--but he could not see. His face
was very white, and his stockings had fallen down over his boots, but with
every movement he was growing more afraid. He caught an instant's vision
of Stephen's face, and he saw that it was white and that he was breathing
hard. The room seemed to be ominously silent, and then men would break out
into strange threatening sounds, and Peter could see one woman--a young
girl--with a red shawl about her shoulders, her back against the wall,
staring with a white face.

He could not see--he could not see....

He murmured once very politely--he thought he said it aloud but it was
really under his breath: "Please, please--would you mind--if you stood
aside--just a little...." but the man in front of him was absorbed and
heard nothing. Then he knew that there was a pause, he caught a glimpse of
the brick floor and he saw that Stephen was sitting back in his chair--his
face was white, and blood was trickling out from the corner of his mouth on
to his beard. Then Peter remembered old Frosted Moses' words: "The courage
you bring to it...." and he sat back in his chair again and, with hands
clenched, waited. He would be brave, braver than he had ever been before,
and perhaps in some strange way his bravery would help Stephen. He
determined with all the power that he had to be brave. They had begun
again, he heard the sound of the blows, the movement of the men's feet on
the rough brick of the floor; people cried out, the man in front of him
pressed forward and he had a sudden view. Stephen was on one knee and
his head was down and the other man was standing over him. It was all
over--Stephen was beaten--Stephen would be killed, and in another minute
Peter would have pushed past the people and run into the middle of the
room, but Sam Figgis had again come forward, and the two men were in their
chairs again. There followed another terrible time when Peter could see
nothing. He waited--he could hear them moving again, the noise of their
breathing and of their feet, the men in the crowd were pressing nearer, but
there was no word spoken.

He must see--at all costs he must see. And he climbed down from his chair,
and crept unnoticed towards the front. Nobody saw him or realised him....
Stephen was bending back, he seemed to be slowly sinking down. The other
man, from whose face blood was now streaming, was pressing on to him. Peter
knew that it was all over and that there was no hope; there was a dreadful
cold, hard pain in his throat, and he could scarcely see. Courage! he must
have it for Stephen. With every bit of his soul and his mind and his body
he was brave. He stood taut--his little legs stiff beneath him and flung
defiance at the world. He and Stephen were fighting that shiny man
together--both of them--now. Courage! Stephen's head lifted a little, and
then slowly Peter saw him pulling his body together--he grew rigid, he
raised his head, and, as a tree falls, his fist crashed into his enemy's
face. The man dropped without a word and lay motionless. It was over.
Stephen gravely watched for a moment the senseless body and then sat back
in his chair, his head bowed on his chest.

The fight had not, perhaps, been like that--there must have been many other
things that happened, but that was always how Peter remembered it. And now
there was confusion--a great deal of noise and people talking very loudly,
but Stephen said nothing at all. He did not look at the body again, but
when he had recovered a little, still without a word to any one and with
his eyes grave and without expression, he moved to the corner where his
clothes lay.

"'E's not dead."

"No--give 'im room there, he's moving," and from the back of the crowd the
Fool's silly face, peering over...

Peter crept unnoticed to the door. The clocks were striking ten, and some
one in the street was singing. He pulled up his stockings and fastened his
garters, then he slipped out into the snow and saw that the sky was full of
stars and that the storm had passed.




CHAPTER II

HOW THE WESTCOTT FAMILY SAT UP FOR PETER


I

The boy always reckoned that, walking one's quickest, it took half an hour
from the door of The Bending Mule to Scaw House, where his father lived. If
a person ran all the way twenty minutes would perhaps cover it, but, most
of the time, the road went up hill and that made running difficult; he had
certainly no intention of running to-night, there were too many things to
think about. That meant, then, that he would arrive home about half-past
ten, and there would be his aunt and his grandfather and his father sitting
up waiting for him.

The world was very silent, and the snow lay on the round cobbles of the
steep street with a bright shining whiteness against the black houses and
the dark night sky. Treliss' principal street was deserted; all down the
hill red lights showed in the windows and voices could be heard, singing
and laughing, because on Christmas Eve there would be parties and
merrymakings. Peter looked a tiny and rather desolate figure against the
snow as he climbed the hill. There was a long way to go. There would be
Green Street at the top, past the post office, then down again into the
Square where the Tower was, then through winding turnings up the hill past
the gates and dark trees of The Man at Arms, then past the old wall of the
town and along the wide high road that runs above the sea until at last one
struck the common, and, hidden in a black clump of trees (so black on a
night like this), the grim grey stones of Scaw House.

Peter was not afraid of being alone, although when snow had fallen
everything seemed strange and monstrous, the trees were like animals,
and the paths of all the world were swept away. But he was not afraid of
ghosts; he was too accustomed to their perpetual company; old Frosted Moses
and Dicky, and even men like Stephen, had seen ghosts so often, and Peter
himself could tell odd stories about the Grey Hill--no, ghosts held no
terror. But, very slowly, the shadow of all that he must very soon go
through was creeping about him. When he first came out of The Bending Mule
he still was as though he were in a dream. Everything that had happened
there that evening had been so strange, so amazing, that it belonged to
the world of dreams--it was of the very stuff of them, and that vision of
Stephen, naked, bleeding, so huge and so terrible, was not to be easily
forgotten.

But, as he climbed the steep street, Peter knew that however great a dream
that might be, there was to be no dreaming at all about his meeting with
his father, and old Frosted Moses' philosophy would be very sadly needed.
As he climbed the hill the reaction from the excitement of his late
adventure suddenly made him very miserable indeed, so that he had an
immediate impulse to cry, but he stood still in the middle of the street
and made fists with his hands and called himself "a damned gawky idiot,"
words that he had admired in the mouth of Sam Figgis some days before.
"Gawky" was certainly the last thing that he was, but it was a nice queer
word, and it helped him a great deal.

The worst of everything was that he had had a number of beatings lately and
the world could not possibly go on, as far as he was concerned, if he had
many more. Every beating made matters worse and his own desperate attempts
to be good and to merit rewards rather than chastisement met with no
success. The hopeless fact of it all was that it had very little to do with
his own actions; his father behaved in the same way to every one, and Mrs.
Trussit, the housekeeper, old Curtis the gardener, Aunt Jessie, and all
the servants, shook under his tongue and the cold glitter of his eyes, and
certainly the maids would long ago have given notice and departed were it
not that they were all afraid to face him. Peter knew that that was true,
because Mrs. Trussit had told him so. It was this hopeless feeling of
indiscriminate punishment that made everything so bad. Until he was eight
years old Peter had not been beaten at all, but when he was very young
indeed he had learnt to crawl away when he heard his father's step, and
he had never cried as a baby because his nurse's white scared face had
frightened him so. And then, of course, there was his mother, his poor
mother--that was another reason for silence. He never saw his mother for
more than a minute at a time because she was ill, had been ill for as long
as he could remember. When he was younger he had been taken into his
mother's room once or twice a week by Mrs. Trussit, and he had bent down
and kissed that white tired face, and he had smelt the curious smell in the
room of flowers and medicine, and he had heard his mother's voice, very far
away and very soft, and he had crept out again. When he was older his aunt
told him sometimes to go and see his mother, and he would creep in alone,
but he never could say anything because of the whiteness of the room and
the sense of something sacred like church froze his speech. He had never
seen his father and mother together.

His mornings were always spent with old Parlow, and in the afternoon he was
allowed to ramble about by himself, so that it was only at mealtimes and
during the horrible half-hour after supper before he went up to bed that he
saw his father.

He really saw more of old Curtis the gardener, but half an hour with his
father could seem a very long time. Throughout the rest of his life that
half-hour after supper remained at the back of his mind--and he never
forgot its slightest detail. The hideous dining-room with the large
photographs of old grandfather and grandmother Westcott in ill-fitting
clothes and heavy gilt frames, the white marble clock on the mantelpiece, a
clock that would tick solemnly for twenty minutes and then give a little
run and a jump for no reason at all, the straight horsehair sofa so black
and uncomfortable with its hard wooden back, the big dining-room table with
its green cloth (faded a little in the middle where a pot with a fern in it
always stood) and his aunt with her frizzy yellow hair, her black mittens
and her long bony fingers playing her interminable Patience, and then two
arm-chairs by the fire, in one of them old grandfather Westcott, almost
invisible beneath a load of rugs and cushions and only the white hairs on
the top of his head sticking out like some strange plant, and in the other
chair his father, motionless, reading the _Cornish Times_--last of all,
sitting up straight with his work in front of him, afraid to move, afraid
to cough, sometimes with pins and needles, sometimes with a maddening
impulse to sneeze, always with fascinated glances out of the corner of his
eye at his father--Peter himself. How happy he was when the marble clock
struck nine, and he was released! How snug and friendly his little attic
bedroom was with its funny diamond-paned window under the shelving roof
with all the view of the common and the distant hills that covered Truro!
There, at any rate, he was free!

He was passing now through the Square, and he stopped for an instant and
looked up at the old weather-beaten Tower that guarded one side of it, and
looked so fine and stately now with the white snow at its foot and the
gleaming sheet of stars at its back. That old Tower had stood a good number
of beatings in its day--it knew well enough what courage was--and so Peter,
as he turned up the hill, squared his shoulders and set his teeth. But in
some way that he was too young to understand he felt that it was not the
beating itself that frightened him most, but rather all the circumstances
that attended it--it was even the dark house, the band of trees about it,
that first dreadful moment when he would hear his knock echo through the
passages, and then the patter of Mrs. Trussit's slippers as she came to
open the door for him--then Mrs. Trussit's fat arm and the candle raised
above her head, and "Oh, it's you, Mr. Peter," and then the opening of the
dining-room door and "It's Master Peter, sir," and then that vision of the
marble clock and his father's face behind the paper. These things were
unfair and more than any one deserved. He had had beatings on several
occasions when he had merited no punishment at all, but it did not make
things any better that on this occasion he did deserve it; it only made
that feeling inside his chest that everything was so hopeless that nothing
whatever mattered, and that it was always more fun to be beaten for a sheep
than a lamb, stronger than ever.

But the world--or at any rate the Scaw House portion of it--could not
move in this same round eternally. Something would happen, and the vague,
half-confessed intention that had been in his mind for some time now was
a little more defined. One day, like his three companions, Tom Jones,
Peregrine Pickle and David Copperfield, he would run into the world
and seek his fortune, and then, afterwards, he would write his book of
adventures as they had done. His heart beat at the thought, and he passed
the high gates and dark trees of The Man at Arms with quick step and head
high. He was growing old--twelve was an age--and there would soon be a time
when beatings must no longer be endured. He shivered when he thought of
what would happen then--the mere idea of defying his father sent shudders
down his back, but he was twelve, he would soon be thirteen....

But this Scaw House, with its strange silence and distresses, was only half
his life. There was the other existence that he had down in the town, out
at Stephen's farm, wandering alone on the Grey Hill, roaming about along
the beach and in amongst the caves, tramping out to The Hearty Cow, a
little inn amongst the gorse, ten miles away, or looking for the lost
church among the sand-dunes at Porthperran. All these things had nothing
whatever to do with his father and old Parlow and his lessons--and it was
undoubtedly this other sort of life that he would lead, with the gipsies
and the tramps, when the time came for him to run away. He knew no other
children of his own age, but he did not want them; he liked best to talk
to old Curtis the gardener, to Dicky the Idiot, to Sam Figgis when that
splendid person would permit it--and, of course, to Stephen.

He passed the old town wall and stepped out into the high road. Far below
him was the sea, above him a sky scattered with shining stars and around
him a white dim world. Turning a corner the road lay straight before him
and to the right along the common was the black clump of trees that hid his
home. He discovered that he was very tired, it had been a most exhausting
day with old Parlow so cross in the morning and the scene in the inn at
night--and now--!

His steps fell slower and slower as he passed along the road. One hot hand
was clutching Parlow's note and in his throat there was a sharp pain that
made it difficult to swallow, and his eyes were burning. Suppose he never
went home at all! Supposing he went off to Stephen's farm!--it was a long
way and he might lose his way in the snow, but his heart beat like a hammer
when he thought of Stephen coming to the door and of the little spare room
where Stephen put his guests to sleep. But no--Stephen would not want him
to-night; he would be very tired and would rather be alone; and then there
would be the morning, when it would be every bit as bad, and perhaps worse.
But if he ran away altogether? ... He stopped in the middle of the road and
thought about it--the noise of the sea came up to him like the march of men
and with it the sick melancholy moan of the Bell Rock, but the rest of the
world was holding its breath, so still it seemed. But whither should he
run? He could not run so far away that his father could not find him--his
father's arm stretched to everywhere in the world. And then it was cowardly
to run away. Where was that courage of which he had been thinking so much?
So he shook his little shoulders and pulled up those stockings again and
turned up the little side road, usually so full of ruts and stones and now
so level and white with the hard snow. Now that his mind was made up, he
marched forward with unfaltering step and clanged the iron gates behind him
so that they made a horrible noise, and stepped through the desolate garden
up the gravel path.

The house looked black and grim, but there were lights behind the
dining-room windows--it was there that they were sitting, of course.

As he stood on his toes to reach the knocker a shooting star flashed past
above his head, and he could hear the bare branches of the trees knocking
against one another in the wind that always seemed to be whistling round
the house. The noise echoed terribly through the building, and then there
was a silence that was even more terrible. He could fancy how his aunt
would start and put down her Patience cards for a moment and look, in
her scared way, at the window--he knew that his father would not move
from behind his paper, and that there would be no other sound unless his
grandfather awoke. He heard Mrs. Trussit's steps down the passage, then
locks were turned, the great door swung slowly open, and he saw her, as he
had pictured it, with a candle in her hand raised above her head, peering
into the dark.

"Oh! it's you, Master Peter," and she stood aside, without another word,
to let him in. He slipped past her, silently, into the hall and, after a
second's pause, she followed him in, banging the hall door behind her. Then
she opened the dining-room door announcing, grimly, "It's Master Peter come
in, sir." The marble clock struck half-past ten as she spoke.

He stood just inside the door blinking a little at the sudden light and
twisting his cloth cap round and round in his hands. He couldn't see
anything at first, and he could not collect his thoughts. At last he said,
in a very little voice:

"I've come back, father."

The lights settled before his eyes, and he saw them all exactly as he had
thought they would be. His father had not looked up from his paper, and
Peter could see the round bald patch on the top of his head. Aunt Jessie
was talking to herself about her cards in a very agitated whisper--"Now
it's the King I want--how provoking! Ah, there's the seven of spades, _and
the six and the five_--oh dear! it's a club," and not looking up at all.

No one answered his remark, and the silence was broken by his grandfather
waking up; a shrill piping voice came from out of the rugs. "Oh! dear, what
a doze I've had! It must be eight o'clock! What a doze for an old man to
have! on such a cold night too," and then fell asleep again immediately.

At last Peter spoke again in a voice that seemed to come from quite another
person.

"Father--I've come back!"

His father very slowly put down his newspaper and looked at him as though
he were conscious of him for the first time. When he spoke it was as
though his voice came out of the ceiling or the floor because his face did
not seem to move at all.

"Where have you been?"

"In the town, father."

"Come here."

He crossed the room and stood in front of the fire between his father and
grandfather. He was tremendously conscious of the grim and dusty cactus
plant that stood on a little table by the window.

"What have you been doing in the town?"

"I have been in The Bending Mule, father."

"Why did you not come home before?"

There was no answer.

"You knew that you ought to come home?"

"Yes, father. I have a letter for you from Mr. Parlow. He said that I was
to tell you that I have done my sums very badly this week and that I gave
Willie Daffoll a bleeding nose on Wednesday--"

"Yes--have you any excuse for these things?"

"No, father."

"Very well. You may go up to your room. I will come up to you there."

"Yes, father."

He crossed the room very slowly, closed the door softly behind him, and
then climbed the dark stairs to his attic.


II

He went trembling up to his room, and the match-box shook in his hand as he
lit his candle. It was only the very worst beatings that happened in his
bedroom, his father's gloomy and solemn study serving as a background on
more unimportant occasions. He could only remember two other beatings in
the attics, and they had both been very bad ones. He closed his door and
then stood in the middle of the room; the little diamond-paned window was
open and the glittering of the myriad stars flung a light over his room and
shone on the little bracket of books above his bed (a Bible, an "Arabian
Nights," and tattered copies of "David Copperfield," "Vanity Fair,"
"Peregrine Pickle," "Tom Jones," and "Harry Lorrequer"), on the little
washing stand, a chest of drawers, a cane-bottomed chair, and the little
bed. There were no pictures on the walls because of the sloping roof, but
there were two china vases on the mantelpiece, and they were painted a very
bright blue with yellow flowers on them.

They had been given to Peter by Mrs. Flanders, the Rector's wife, who
had rather a kind feeling for Peter, and would have been friendly to him
had he allowed her. He took off his jacket and put it on again, he stood
uncertainly in the middle of the floor, and wondered whether he ought
to undress or no. There was no question about it now, he was horribly,
dreadfully afraid. That wisdom of old Frosted Moses seemed a very long ago,
and it was of very little use. If it had all happened at once after he
had come in then he might have endured it, but this waiting and listening
with the candle guttering was too much for him. His father was so very
strong--he had Peter's figure and was not very tall and was very broad in
the back; Peter had seen him once when he was stripped, and the thought of
it always frightened him.

His face was white and his teeth would chatter although he bit his lips and
his fingers shook as he undressed, and his stud slipped and he could not
undo his braces--and always his ears were open for the sound of the step on
the stairs.

At last he was in his night-shirt, and a very melancholy figure he looked
as he stood shivering in the middle of the floor. It was not only that he
was going to be beaten, it was also that he was so lonely. Stephen seemed
so dreadfully far away and he had other things to think about; he wondered
whether his mother in that strange white room ever thought of him, his
teeth were chattering, so that his whole head shook, but he was afraid
to get into bed because then he might go to sleep and it would be so
frightening to be woken by his father.

The clock downstairs struck eleven, and he heard his father's footstep. The
door opened, and his father came in holding in his hand the cane that Peter
knew so well.

"Are you there?" the voice was very cold.

"Yes, father."

"Do you know that you ought to be home before six?"

"Yes, father."

"And that I dislike your going to The Bending Mule?"

"Yes, father."

"And that I insist on your doing your work for Mr. Parlow?"

"Yes, father."

"And that you are not to fight the other boys in the town?"

"Yes, father."

"Why do you disobey me like this?"

"I don't know. I try to be good."

"You are growing into an idle, wicked boy. You are a great trouble to your
mother and myself."

"Yes, father. I want to be better."

Even now he could admire his father's strength, the bull-neck, the dark
close-cropped hair, but he was cold, and the blood had come where he bit
his lip--because he must not cry.

"You must learn obedience. Take off your nightshirt."

He took it off, and was a very small naked figure in the starlight, but his
head was up now and he faced his father.

"Bend over the bed."

He bent over the bed, and the air from the window cut his naked back. He
buried his head in the counterpane and fastened his teeth in it so that he
should not cry out....

During the first three cuts he did not stir, then an intolerable pain
seemed to move through his body--it was as though a knife were cutting his
body in half. But it was more than that--there was terror with him now in
the room; he heard that little singing noise that came through his father's
lips--he knew that his father was smiling.

At the succeeding strokes his flesh quivered and shrank together and then
opened again--the pain was intolerable; his teeth met through the coverlet
and grated on one another; but before his eyes was the picture of Stephen
slowly straightening himself before his enemy and then that swinging
blow--he would not cry. He seemed to be sharing his punishment with
Stephen, and they were marching, hand in hand, down a road lined with
red-hot pokers.

His back was on fire, and his head was bursting and the soles of his feet
were very, very cold.

Then he heard, from a long way away, his father's voice:

"Now you will not disobey me again."

The door closed. Very slowly he raised himself, but moving was torture; he
put on his night-shirt and then quickly caught back a scream as it touched
his back. He moved to the window and closed it, then he climbed very slowly
on to his bed, and the tears that he had held back came, slowly at first,
and then more rapidly, at last in torrents. It was not the pain, although
that was bad, but it was the misery and the desolation and the great
heaviness of a world that held out no hope, no comfort, but only a great
cloud of unrelieved unhappiness.

At last, sick with crying, he fell asleep.


III

The first shadow of light was stealing across the white undulating common
and creeping through the bare trees of the desolate garden when four dark
figures, one tall, two fat, and one small, stole softly up the garden path.
They halted beneath the windows of the house; the snow had ceased falling,
and their breath rose in clouds above their heads. They danced a little in
the snow and drove their hands together, and then the tall figure said:

"Now, Tom Prother, out with thy musick." One of the fat figures felt in his
coat and produced four papers, and these were handed round.

"Bill, my son, it's for thee to lead off at thy brightest, mind ye. Let 'em
have it praper."

The small figure came forward and began; at first his voice was thin and
quavering, but in the second line it gathered courage and rang out full and
bold:

  _As oi sat under a sicymore tree
    A sicymore tree, a sicymore tree,
  Oi looked me out upon the sea
    On Christ's Sunday at morn._

"Well for thee, lad," said the tall figure approvingly, "but the cold is
creepin' from the tips o' my fingers till my singin' voice is most frozen.
Now, altogether."

And the birds in the silent garden woke amongst the ivy on the distant wall
and listened:

  _Oi saw three ships a-sailin' there--
    A sailin' there, a-sailin' there,
  Jesu, Mary, and Joseph they bare
    On Christ's Sunday at morn._

A small boy curled up, like the birds, under the roof stirred uneasily in
his sleep and then slowly woke. He moved, and gave a little cry because his
back hurt him, then he remembered everything. The voices came up to him
from the garden:

  _Joseph did whistle and Mary did sing,
    Mary did sing, Mary did sing,
  And all the bells on earth did ring
    For joy our Lord was born._

  _O they sail'd in to Bethlehem,
    To Bethlehem, to Bethlehem;
  Saint Michael was the steersman,
    Saint John sate in the horn._

  _And all the bells on earth did ring,
    On earth did ring, on earth did ring;
  "Welcome be thou Heaven's King,
    On Christ's Sunday at morn."_

He got slowly out of bed and went to the window. The light was coming in
broad bands from the East and he could hear the birds in the ivy. The four
black figures stood out against the white shadowy garden and their heads
were bent together. He opened his window, and the fresh morning air swept
about his face.

He could hear the whispers of the singers as they chose another carol and
suddenly above the dark iron gates of the garden appeared the broad red
face of the sun.




CHAPTER III

OF THE DARK SHOP OF ZACHARY TAN, AND OF THE DECISIONS THAT THE PEOPLE IN
SCAW HOUSE CAME TO CONCERNING PETER


I

But it was of the nature of the whole of life that these things should
pass. "Look back on this bitterness a year hence and see how trivial it
seems" was one of the little wisdoms that helped Peter's courage in after
years. And to a boy of twelve years a beating is forgotten with amazing
quickness, especially if it is a week of holiday and there have been other
beatings not so very long before.

It left things behind it, of course. It was the worst beating that Peter
had ever had, and that was something, but its occurrence marked more than a
mere crescendo of pain, and that evening stood for some new resolution that
he did not rightly understand yet--something that was in its beginning the
mere planting of a seed. But he had certainly met the affair in a new way
and, although in the week that followed he saw his father very seldom and
spoke to him not at all beyond "Good morning" and "Good night," he fancied
that he was in greater favour with him than he had ever been before.

There were always days of silence after a beating, and that was more
markedly the case now when it was a week of holidays and no Parlow to go
to. Peter did not mind the silence--it was perhaps safer--and so long as
he was home by six o'clock he could spend the day where he pleased. He
asked Mrs. Trussit about the carol-singers. There was a little room, the
housekeeper's room, to which he crept when he thought that it was safe
to do so. She was a different Mrs. Trussit within the boundary of her
kingdom--a very cosy kingdom with pink wall-paper, a dark red sofa, a
canary in a cage, and a fire very lively in the grate. From the depths of a
big arm-chair, her black silk dress rustling a little every now and then,
her knitting needles clinking in the firelight, Mrs. Trussit held many
conversations in a subdued voice with Peter, who sat on the table and swung
his legs. She was valuable from two points of view--as an Historian and
an Encyclopædia. She had been, in the first place, in the most wonderful
houses--The Earl of Twinkerton's, Bambary House, Wiltshire, was the
greatest of these, and she had been there for ten years; there were
also Lady Mettlesham, the Duchess of Cranburn, and, to Peter, the most
interesting of all, Mr. Henry Galleon, the famous novelist who was so
famous that American ladies used to creep into his garden and pick leaves
off his laurels.

Peter had from her a dazzling picture of wonderful houses--of staircases
and garden walks, of thousands and thousands of shining rooms, of family
portraits, and footmen with beautiful legs. Above it all was "my lady" who
was always beautiful and stately and, of course, devoted to Mrs. Trussit.
Why that good woman left these noble mansions for so dreary a place as Scaw
House Peter never could understand, and for many years that remained a
mystery to him--but in awed whispers he asked her questions about the lords
and ladies of the land and especially about the famous novelist and, from
the answers given to him, constructed a complete and most romantic picture
of the Peerage.

But, as an Encyclopædia, Mrs. Trussit was even more interesting. She had
apparently discovered at an early age that the golden rule of life was
never to confess yourself defeated by any question whatever, and there was
therefore nothing that he could ask her for which she had not an immediate
answer ready. Her brow was always unruffled, her black shining hair brushed
neatly back and parted down the middle, her large flat face always composed
and placid, and her voice never raised above a whisper. The only sign that
she ever gave of disturbance was a little clucking noise that she made in
her mouth like an aroused hen. Peter's time in the little pink sitting-room
was sometimes exceedingly short and he used to make the most of it by
shooting questions at the good lady at an astonishing rate, and he was
sometimes irritated by her slow and placid replies:

"What kind of stockings did Mr. Galleon wear?"

"He didn't wear stockings unless, as you might say, in country attire, and
then, if I remember correctly, they were grey."

"Had he any children?"

"There was one little dear when I had the honour of being in the house--and
since then I have heard that there are two more."

"Mrs. Trussit, where do children come from?"

"They are brought by God's good angels when we are all asleep in the night
time."

"Oh!" (this rather doubtfully). A pause--then "Did the Earl of Twinkerton
have hot or cold baths?"

"Cold in the morning, I believe, with the chill off and hot at night before
dressing for dinner. He was a very cleanly gentleman."

"Mrs. Trussit, where _is_ Patagonia? It came in the history this morning."

"North of the Caribbean Sea, I believe, my dear."

And so on, and Peter never forgot any of her answers. About the
carol-singers she was a little irritable. They had woken her it seemed from
a very delightful sleep, and she considered the whole affair "savoured of
Paganism." And then Peter found suddenly that he didn't wish to talk about
the carol-singers at all because the things that he felt about them were,
in some curious way, not the things that he could say to Mrs. Trussit.

She was very kind to him during that Christmas week and gave him mixed
biscuits out of a brightly shining tin that she kept in a cupboard in her
room. But outside the gates of her citadel she was a very different person,
spoke to Peter but rarely, and then always with majesty and from a long way
away. Her attitude to the little maid-of-all-work was something very
wonderful indeed, and even to Aunt Jessie her tone might be considered
patronising.

But indeed to Aunt Jessie it was very difficult to be anything else. Aunt
Jessie was a poor creature, as Peter discovered very early in life. He
found that she never had any answers ready to the questions that he asked
her and that she hesitated when he wished to know whether he might do a
thing or no. She was always trembling and shaking, and no strong-minded
person ever wore mittens. He had a great contempt for his aunt....

On New Year's Eve, the last day but one of release from old Parlow, Mr.
Westcott spent the day doing business in Truro, and at once the atmosphere
over Scaw House seemed to lighten. The snow had melted away, and there was
a ridiculous feeling of spring in the air; ridiculous because it was still
December, but Cornwall is often surprisingly warm in the heart of winter,
and the sun was shining as ardently as though it were the middle of June.
The sunlight flooded the dining-room and roused old grandfather Westcott
to unwonted life, so that he stirred in his chair and was quite unusually
talkative.

He stopped Peter after breakfast, as he was going out of the room and
called him to his side:

"Is that the sun, boy?"

"Yes, grandfather."

"Deary me, to think of that and me a poor, broken, old man not able to move
an arm or foot."

He raised himself amongst his cushions, and Peter saw an old yellow
wrinkled face with the skin drawn tight over the cheekbones and little
black shining eyes like drops of ink. A wrinkled claw shot out and clutched
Peter's hand.

"Do you love your grandfather, boy?"

"Of course, grandfather."

"That's right, that's right--on a nice sunny morning, too. Do you love your
father, boy?"

"Of course, grandfather."

"He, he--oh, yes--all the Westcotts love their fathers. _He_ loved his
father when he was young, didn't he? Oh, yes, I should rather think so."

And his voice rose into a shrill scream so that Peter jumped. Then he began
to look Peter up and down.

"You'll be strong, boy, when you're a man--oh, yes, I should rather think
so--I was strong once.... Do you hear that?... I was strong once, he, he!"

And here grandfather Westcott, overcome by his chuckling, began to cough so
badly that Peter was afraid that he was going to be ill, and considered
running for Aunt Jessie.

"Hit my back, boy--huh, huh! Ugh, ugh! That's right, hit it hard--that's
better--ugh, ugh! Oh! deary me! that's better--_what_ a nasty cough, oh,
deary me, what a nasty cough! I was strong once, boy, hegh, hegh! Indeed
I was, just like your father--and he'll be just like me, one day! Oh! yes,
he will--blast his bones! He, he! We all come to it--all of us strong men,
and we're cruel and hard, and won't give a poor old man enough for his
breakfast--and then suddenly we're old ourselves, and what fun that is! Oh!
Yes, your father will be old one day!" and suddenly, delighted with the
thought, the old man slipped down beneath his cushions and was fast asleep.

And Peter went out into the sunlight.


II

Peter looked very different at different times. When he was happy his
cheeks were flooded with colour, his eyes shone, and his mouth smiled. He
was happy now, and he forgot as he came out into the garden that he had
promised his aunt that he would go in and see his mother for a few minutes.
Old Curtis, wearing the enormous sun-hat that he always had flapping about
his head and his trousers tied below his knees with string in the most
ridiculous way, was sweeping the garden path. He never did very much work,
and the garden was in a shocking state of neglect, but he told delightful
stories. To-day, however, he was in a bad temper and would pay no attention
to Peter at all, and so Peter left him and went out into the high road.

It was two miles across the common to Stephen's farm and it took the boy
nearly an hour, because the ground was uneven and there were walls to
climb, and also because he was thinking of what his grandfather had said.
Would his father one day be old and silly like his grandfather? Did every
one get old and silly like that? and, if so, what was the use of being born
at all? But what happened to all his father's strength? Where did it all go
to? In some curious undefined way he resented his grandfather's remarks. He
could have loved and admired his father immensely had he been allowed to,
but even if that were not permitted he could stand up for him when he was
attacked. What right had his silly old grandfather to talk like that?...
His father would one day be old? And Stephen, would he be old, too? Did all
strength go?

Peter was crossing a ploughed field, and the rich brown earth heaved in a
great circle against the sky and in the depth of its furrows there were
mysterious velvet shadows--the brown hedges stood back against the sky
line. The world was so fresh and clean and strong this morning that the
figure and voice of his grandfather hung unpleasantly about him and
depressed him. There were so many things that he wanted to know and so few
people to tell him, and he turned through the white gates of Stephen's farm
with a consciousness that since Christmas Eve the world had begun to be a
new place.

Stephen was sitting in the upstairs room scratching his head over his
accounts, whilst his old mother sat dozing, with her knitting fallen on
to her lap by the fire. The window was open, and all the sound and smells
of the farm came into the room. The room was an old one with brown oaken
rafters and whitewashed walls, a long oaken table down the middle of it,
and a view over the farmyard and the sweeping fields beyond it, lost at
last, in the distant purple hills. Peter was given a chair opposite the old
lady, who was nearly eighty, and wore a beautiful white cap, and she woke
up and talked incessantly, because she was very garrulous by nature and
didn't care in the least to whom she talked. Peter politely listened to
what she had to say, although he understood little of it, and his eyes were
watching for the moment when the accounts should be finished and Stephen
free.

"Ay," said the old lady, "and it were good Mr. Tenement were the rector
in those days, I remember, and he gave us a roaring discourse many's the
Sunday. Church is not what it was, with all this singing and what not and
the clothes the young women wear--I remember..."

But Stephen had closed his books with a bang and given his figures up in
despair. "I don't know how it is, boy," he said, "but they're at something
different every time yer look at 'em--they're one too many for me, that's
certain."

One of Stephen's eyes was still nearly closed, and both eyes were black and
blue, and his right cheek had a bad bruise on it, but Peter thought it was
wiser not to allude to the encounter. The farm was exceedingly interesting,
and then there was dinner, and it was not until the meal had been cleared
away that Peter remembered that he wanted to ask some questions, and then
Stephen interrupted him with:

"Like to go to Zachary Tan's with me this afternoon, boy? I've got to be
lookin' in."

Peter jumped to his feet with excitement.

"Oh! Steve! This afternoon--this _very_ afternoon?"

It was the most exciting thing possible. Zachary Tan's was the curiosity
shop of Treliss and famous even twenty years ago throughout the south
country. It is still there, I believe, although Zachary himself is dead and
with him has departed most of the atmosphere of the place, and it is now
smart and prosperous, although in those days it was dark and dingy enough.
No one knew whence Zachary had come, and he was one of the mysteries of a
place that deals, even now, in mysteries. He had arrived as a young man
with a basket over his back thirty years before Peter saw the light, when
Treliss was a little fishing village and Mr. Bannister, Junior, had not
cast his enterprising eye over The Man at Arms. Zachary had beads and
silks, and little silver images in his basket, and he had stayed there
in a little room over the shop, and things had prospered with him. The
inhabitants of the place had never trusted him, but they were always
interested. "Thiccy Zachary be a poor trade," they had said at first, "poor
trade" signifying anything or anybody not entirely approved of--but they
had hung about his shop, had bought his silks and little ornaments, and had
talked to him sometimes with eyes open and mouth agape at the things that
he could tell them. And then people had come from Truro and Pendragon and
even Bodmin and, finally, Exeter, because they had heard of the things
that he had for sale. No one knew where he found his treasures, for he was
always in his shop, smiling and amiable, but sometimes gentlemen would
come from London, and he had strange friends like Mr. Andreas Morelli,
concerning whose life a book has already been written. Zachary Tan's
shop became at last the word in Treliss for all that was strange and
unusual--the strongest link with London and other curious places. He had a
little back room behind his shop, where he would welcome his friends, give
them something to drink and talk about the world. He was always so friendly
that people thought that he must wish for things in return, but he never
asked for anything, nor did he speak about himself at all. As for his
portrait, he had a pale face, a big beak nose, very black hair that hung
over his forehead and was always untidy, a blue velvet jacket, black
trousers, green slippers, and small feet.

He also wore two rings and blew his long nose in silk handkerchiefs of
the most wonderful colours. All these things may seem of the slenderest
importance, but they are not insignificant if one considers their
effect upon Peter. Zachary was the most romantic figure that he had yet
encountered; to walk through the shop with its gold and its silver, its
dust and its jewels, into the dark little room beyond; to hear this
wonderful person talk, to meet men who lived in London, to listen by the
light of flickering candles and with one's eyes fixed upon portraits of
ladies dancing in the slenderest attire, this was indeed Life, and Life
such as The Bending Mule, Scaw House, and even Stephen's farm itself could
not offer.

Peter often wondered why Stephen and Zachary were friends, because they
seemed to have little enough in common, but Stephen was a silent man, who
liked all kinds of company, and Peter noticed that Zachary was always very
polite and obliging to Stephen.

Stephen was very silent going across the Common and down the high road
into the town, but Peter knew him too well by this time to interrupt his
thoughts. He was thinking perhaps about his accounts that would not come
right or about the fight and Burstead his enemy.

Everybody had their troubles that they thought about and every one had
their secrets, the things that they kept to themselves--even Aunt Jessie
and old Curtis the gardener--one must either be as clever as Zachary Tan
or as foolish as Dicky the Idiot to know very much about people. Zachary,
Peter had noticed, was one of the persons who always listened to everything
that Dicky had to say, and treated him with the greatest seriousness, even
when he seemed to be talking about the wildest things--and it was a great
many years after this that Peter discovered that it was only the wisest
people who knew how very important fools were. Zachary's shop was at the
very bottom of Poppero Street, the steep and cobbled street that goes
straight down to the little wooden jetty where the fishing boats lie, and
you could see the sea like a square handkerchief between the houses on
either side. Many of the houses in Poppero Street are built a little below
the level of the pathway, and you must go down steps to reach the door.
Zachary's shop was like this, and it had a green door with a bright
brass knocker. There were always many things jumbled together in the
window--candlesticks, china shepherds and shepherdesses, rings and
necklaces, cups and saucers, little brass figures, coins, snuff-boxes,
match-boxes, charms, and old blue china plates, and at the back a complete
suit of armour that had been there ever since Zachary had first opened his
shop.

Of course, inside there were a thousand and one things of the most exciting
kind, but Stephen, an enormous figure in the low-roofed shop, brushed past
the pale-faced youth whom Zachary now hired to assist with the customers
and passed into the dark room beyond, Peter close at his heels.

There were two silver candlesticks lighted on the mantelpiece, and there
were two more in the centre of the green baize table and round the fire
were seated four men. One of them Zachary himself, another was pleasant
little Mr. Bannister, host of The Man at Arms, another was old Frosted
Moses, sucking as usual at his great pipe, and the fourth was a stranger.

Zachary rose and came forward smiling. "Ah, Mr. Brant, delighted to
see you, I'm sure. Brought the boy with you? Excellent, excellent. Mr.
Bannister and Mr. Tathero (old Moses' society name) you know, of course;
this is Mr. Emilio Zanti, a friend of mine from London."

The stranger, who was an enormous fat man with a bald head and an eager
smile rose and shook hands with Stephen, he also shook hands with Peter as
though it had been the ambition of his life to meet that small and rather
defiant person.

He also embarrassed Peter very much by addressing him as though he were
grown up, and listening courteously to everything that he had to say. Peter
decided that he did not like him--but "a gentleman from London" was always
an exciting introduction. The boy was able very quickly to obliterate
himself by sitting down somewhere in a corner and remaining absolutely
silent and perhaps that was the reason that he was admitted to so many
elderly gatherings--he was never in the way. He slipped quickly into a
chair, hidden in the shadow of the wall, but close to the elbow of "the
gentleman from London," whose face he watched with the greatest curiosity.
Stephen was silent, and Frosted Moses very rarely said anything at all, so
that the conversation speedily became a dialogue between Zachary and the
foreign gentleman, with occasional appeals to Mr. Brant for his unbiassed
opinion. Peter's whole memory of the incident was vague and uncertain,
although in after years he often tried very hard to recall it all to
mind. He was excited by the mere atmosphere of the place, by the silver
candlesticks, the dancing ladies on the walls, Zachary's blue coat, and the
sense of all the wonderful things in the shop beyond. He had no instinct
that it was all important beyond the knowledge that it roused a great many
things in him that the rest of his life left untouched and anything to do
with "London," a city, as he knew from Tom Jones and David Copperfield, of
extraordinary excitement and adventure, was an event. He watched Mr. Emilio
Zanti closely, and he decided that his smile was not real, and that it must
be very unpleasant to have a bald head. He also noticed that he said things
in a funny way: like "ze beautiful country zat you 'ave 'ere with its sea
and its woods" and "I 'ave the greatest re-spect for ze Englishman"--also
his hands were very fat and he wore rings like Zachary.

Sometimes Peter fancied that his words meant a great deal more than they
seemed to mean. He laughed when there was really nothing to laugh at and
he tried to make Stephen talk, but Stephen was very silent. On the whole
the conversation was dull, Peter thought, and once he nodded and was very
nearly asleep, and fancied that the gentleman from London was spreading
like a balloon and filling all the room. There was no mention of London at
all.

Peter wondered for what purpose Stephen had come there, because he sat
looking at the fire with his brown hands spread out over his great knees,
thinking apparently all his own thoughts.

Then suddenly there came a moment. The London gentleman, Mr. Emilio Zanti,
turned round quite quickly and said, like a shot out of a gun: "And what
does our little friend think of it?"

Peter did not know to what he was referring, and looked embarrassed. He was
also conscious that Zachary was watching him keenly.

"Ah, 'e does not understand, our little friend. But with life, what is it
that you will do when you are grown up, my boy?" and he put his fat hand on
Peter's knee. Peter disliked him more than ever, but he answered:

"I don't know--I haven't settled yet."

"Ah, it is early days," said Mr. Zanti, nodding his head, "there is much
time, of course. But what is the thing that our little friend would care,
most of all, to do?"

"To go to school," said Peter, without any hesitation, and both Zachary and
Mr. Zanti laughed a great deal more than was in the least necessary.

"And then--afterwards?" said Mr. Zanti.

"To go to London," said Peter, stiffly, feeling in some undefined way that
they were laughing at him and that something was going on that he did not
understand.

"Ho! that is good," said Mr. Emilio, slapping his knees and rocking in his
chair with merriment. "Ho! that is very good. He knows a thing or two, our
young friend here. Ho, yes! don't you mistake!" For a little while he could
not speak for laughing, and the tears rolled down his fat cheeks. "And what
is it that you will do when you are there, my friend?" he said at last.

"I will have adventures," said Peter, growing a little bolder at the
thought of London and its golden streets. And then, suddenly, when he heard
this, curious Mr. Zanti grew very grave indeed, and his eyes were very
large, and he put a finger mysteriously to his nose. Then he leant right
over Peter and almost whispered in his ear.

"And you shall--of course you shall. You shall come to London and 'ave
adventures--'eaps and 'eaps and 'eaps. Oh, yes, bless my soul, shan't he,
Mr. Tan? Dear me, yes--London, my young friend, is the most wonderful
place. In one week, if you are clever, you 'ave made thousands of
pounds--thousands and thousands. Is it not so, Mr. Tan? When you are just
a little bit older, a few years--then you shall come. And you ask for your
friend, Mr. Emilio Zanti--because I like you. We will be friends, is not
that so?"

And he held out his large fat hand and grasped Peter's small and rather
damp one. Then he bent even closer, still holding Peter's hand: "Do you
know one thing?" he whispered.

"No," replied Peter, husky with awe.

"It is this, that when you think of Mr. Zanti and of London and of
adventures, you will look in a looking-glass--any looking-glass, and you
will see--what you will see," and he nodded all over his fat face.

Peter was entirely overcome by this last astonishing statement, and was
very relieved to hear numbers of clocks in the curiosity shop strike five
o'clock. He got off his chair, said good-bye very politely indeed, and
hurried up the dark street.

For the moment even his beloved Stephen was forgotten, and looking-glasses,
the face of Mr. Emilio Zanti, London streets, and Zachary's silver
candlesticks were mingled confusedly in his brain.


III

And indeed throughout the dreary supper Peter's brain was in a whirl. It
often happened that supper passed without a word of conversation from first
to last. His father very rarely said anything, Peter never said anything at
all, and if Aunt Jessie did venture on a little conversation she received
so slender an encouragement that she always forsook the attempt after a
very short time. It was a miserable meal.

It was cold beef and beetroot and blanc-mange with a very, very little
strawberry jam round the edges of the glass dish, and there was a hard red
cheese and little stiff woolly biscuits.

But old grandfather Westcott was always hungry, and his querulous
complaints were as regular an accompaniment to the evening meal as the
ticking of the marble clock. But his beef had to be cut up for him into
very tiny pieces and that gave Aunt Jessie a great deal of work, so that
his appeals for a second helping were considered abominable selfishness.

"Oh, my dear, just a leetle piece of beef" (this from the very heart of
the cushions). "Just the leetlest piece of beef for a poor old man--such a
leetle piece he had, and he's had such a hunger." No answer to this and at
last a strange noise from the cushions like the sound of dogs quarrelling.
At last again, "Oh, just the leetlest piece of beef for a poor old man--"
and then whimpering and "poor old man" repeated at intervals that
lengthened gradually into sleep.

At last the meal was over, the things had been cleared away, and Peter was
bending over a sum in preparation for lessons on Monday. Such a sum--add
this and this and this and this and then divide it by that and multiply the
result by this!... and the figures (bad ill-written figures) crept over
the page and there were smudgy finger marks, and always between every other
line "London, looking-glasses, and fat Mr. Zanti laughing until the tears
ran down his face." Such a strange world where all these things could be
so curiously confused, all of them, one supposed, having their purpose and
meaning--even grandfather--and even 2469 X 2312 X 6201, and ever so many
more until they ran races round the page and up and down and in and out.

And then suddenly into the middle of the silence his father's voice:

"What are you doing there?"

"Sums, father--for Monday."

"You won't go back on Monday" (and this without the _Cornish Times_ moving
an inch).

"Not go back?"

"No. You are going away to school--to Devonshire--on Tuesday week."

And Peter's pencil fell clattering on to the paper, and the answer to that
sum is still an open question.




CHAPTER IV

IN WHICH "DAWSON'S," AS THE GATE OF LIFE, IS PROVED A DISAPPOINTMENT


I

It was, of course, very strange that this should come so swiftly after the
meeting with the London gentleman--it was almost as though he had known
about it, because it was a first step towards that London that he had so
confidently promised. To Peter school meant the immediate supply of the
two things that he wanted more than anything in the world--Friendship
and Knowledge; not knowledge of the tiresome kind, Knowledge that had
to do with the Kings of Israel and the capital of Italy, but rather the
experience that other gentlemen of his own age had already gathered during
their journey through the world. Stephen, Zachary, Moses, Dicky, Mrs.
Trussit, old Curtis, even Aunt Jessie--all these people had knowledge,
of course, but they would not give it you--they would not talk to you as
though they were at your stage of the journey, they could not exchange
opinions with you, they could not share in your wild surmises, they
could not sympathise with your hatred of addition, multiplication, and
subtraction. The fellow victims at old Parlow's might have been expected
to do these things, but they were too young, too uninterested, too
unenterprising. One wanted real boys--boys with excitement and sympathy...
_real_ boys.

He had wanted it, far, far more terribly than any one had known. He had
sat, sometimes, in the dark, in his bedroom, and thought about it until
he had very nearly cried, because he wanted it so badly, and now it had
suddenly come out of the clouds... bang!


II

That last week went with a rattling speed and provided a number of most
interesting situations. In the first place there was the joy--a simple but
delightful one--on Monday morning, of thinking of those "others" who were
entering, with laggard foot, into old Parlow's study--that study with
the shining map of Europe on the wall, a bust of Julius Cæsar (conquered
Britain? B.C.), and the worn red carpet. They would all be there. They
would wonder where he was, and on discovering that he would never come
again, Willie Daffoll, of recent tragic memory, would be pleased because
now he would be chief and leader. Well, let him!... Yes, that was all very
pleasant to think of.

There was further the thought that school might not, after all, be exactly
what Peter imagined it. The pictures in his mind were evolved from his
reading of "David Copperfield." There would be people like Steerforth and
dear Traddles, there would be a master who played the flute, there would be
rebellions and riots--would there?

Mrs. Trussit was of little value on this occasion:

"Mrs. Trussit, were you ever at school?"

"No, Master Peter, I was never at school. My good mother, who died at the
ripe old age of ninety-two with all her faculties, gave me a liberal and
handsome education with her own hands."

"Do you think it will be like 'David Copperfield'?"

Mrs. Trussit was ignorant of the work in question. "Of course, Master
Peter. How can you ask such a thing? They are all like that, I believe.
But, there, run away now. It's time for me to be looking after your
mother's supper," &c. &c.

Mrs. Trussit obviously knew nothing whatever about it, although Peter heard
her once murmuring "Poor lamb" as she gave him mixed biscuits out of her
tin.

Stephen also was of little use, and he didn't seem especially glad when he
heard about it.

"And it's a good school, do you think?" he said.

"Of course," said Peter valiantly, "one of the very best. It's in
Devonshire, and I leave by the eight o'clock train" (this very
importantly).

The fact of the matter was that Peter was so greatly excited by it all
that abandoning even Stephen was a minor sorrow. It was a dreadful pity of
course, but Peter intended to write most wonderful letters, and there would
be the joyful meeting when the holidays came round, and he would be a more
sensible person for Stephen to have for a friend after he'd seen the world.

"Dear Stephen--I shall write every week--every Friday I expect. That will
be a good day to choose."

"Yes--that'll be a good day. Well, 'ere's the end of yer as yer are. It'll
be another Peter coming back, maybe. Up along they'll change yer."

"But never me and you, Steve. I shall love you always."

The man seized him almost fiercely by the shoulders and looked him in the
face. "Promise me that, boy," he said, "promise me that. Yer most all
I've got now. But I'm a fool to ask yer--of course yer'll change. I'm an
ignorant fool."

They were standing in the middle of one of Stephen's brown ploughed fields,
and the cold, sharp day was drawing to a close as the mist stole up from
the ground and the dim sun sank behind the hedgerows.

Peter in the school years that followed always had this picture of Stephen
standing in the middle of his field--Stephen's rough, red brown clothes,
his beard that curled a little, his brown corduroys that smelt of sheep and
hay, the shining brass buttons of his coat, his broad back and large brown
hands, his mild blue eyes and nose suddenly square at the end where it
ought to have been round--this Stephen Brant raised from the very heart
of the land, something as strong and primitive as the oaks and corn and
running stream that made his background.

Stephen suddenly caught up Peter and kissed him so that the boy cried out.
Then he turned abruptly and left him, and Peter did not see him again.

He said his farewells to the town, tenderly and gravely--the cobbled
streets, the dear market-place, and the Tower, The Bending Mule (here there
were farewells to be said to Mr. and Mrs. Figgis and old Moses); the wooden
jetty, and the fishing-boats--then the beach and the caves and the sea....

Last of all, the Grey Hill. Peter climbed it on the last afternoon of all.
He was quite alone, and the world was very still; he could not hear the sea
at all. At last he was at the top and leant his back against the Giant's
Finger. Looking round there are the hills that guard Truro, there are the
woods where the rabbits are, there is the sea, and a wonderful view of
Treliss rising into a peak which is The Man at Arms--and the smoke of the
town mingled with the grey uncertain clouds, and the clouds mingled with
the sea, and the only certain and assured thing was the strength of the
Giant's Finger. That at least he could feel cold and hard against his
hands. He felt curiously solemn and grave, and even a little tearful--and
he stole down, through the dusk, softly as though his finger were on his
lips.

And then after this a multitude of hurrying sensations with their climax
in a very, very early morning, when one dressed with a candle, when one's
box was corded and one's attic looked strangely bare, when there was a
surprising amount to eat at breakfast, when one stole downstairs softly. He
had said good-bye to his mother on the previous evening, and she had kissed
him, and he had felt uncomfortable and shy.

Then there were Mrs. Trussit and his aunt to see him off, there was a cab
and, most wonderful of all, there was his father coming in the cab. That
was a dreadful thing and the journey to the station seemed endless because
of it. His father was perfectly silent, and any thrill that Peter might
have snatched from the engines, the porters, the whistles, and his own
especial carriage were negatived by this paralysing occurrence. He would
have liked to have said something himself, but he could only think of
things that were quite impossible like "How funny Mrs. Trussit's nose is
early in the morning," "I wonder what old Parlow's doing."

It was terrible.

He was in his carriage--they were hurrying, every one was hurrying.

His father suddenly spoke.

"The guard will see to you. You change at Exeter. Your aunt has given you
sandwiches." A little pause, and then: "You've got pluck. You stood that
beating well." Then the stern face passed, and the grave awful figure faded
slowly down the platform.

Peter felt suddenly, utterly, completely miserable, and alone. Two tears
rolled slowly down his cheeks. He blew his nose, and the train started.


III

And so this first run into liberty begins with tears and a choke in the
throat and a sudden panting desire to be back in the dark passages of
Scaw House. Nor did the fleeting swiftness of the new country please him.
Suddenly one was leaving behind all those known paths and views, so dimly
commonplace in the having of them, so rosily romantic in the tragic wanting
of them!

How curious that Mrs. Trussit, his aunt, and his father should appear now
pathetically affectionate in their farewells of him! They were not--to that
he could swear--and yet back he would run did Honour and Destiny allow him.
Above all, how he would have run now to Stephen.

He felt like a sharp wound the horrible selfishness and indifference of his
parting when Stephen's beard had been pressed so roughly against his face
that it had hurt him--and he had had nothing to say. He would write that
very night if They--the unknown Gods to whose kingdom he journeyed--would
allow him. This comforted him a little and the spirit of adventure stirred
in him anew. He wiped his eyes for the last time with the crumpled ball of
his handkerchief, sniffed three times defiantly, and settled to a summary
of the passing country, cows, and hills and hedges, presently the pleasing
bustle of Truro station, and then again the cows and hills and hedges. On
parting from Cornwall he discovered a new sensation, and was surprised
that he should feel it. He did not know, as a definite fact, the exact
moment when that merging of Cornwall into Devon came, and yet, strangely in
his spirit, he was conscious of it. Now he was in a foreign country, and
it was almost as though his own land had cast him out so that the sharp
appealing farewell to the Grey Hill, Treliss, and the sea was even more
poignant than his farewell to his friends had been. Once more, at the
thought of all the ways that he loved Cornwall, the choking sob was in his
throat and the hot tears were in his eyes, and his hands were clenched. And
then he remembered that London was not in Cornwall, and if he were ever
going to get there at all he must not mind this parting.

"What the devil are you crying about?" came suddenly from the other side of
the carriage. He looked up, and saw that there was an old gentleman sitting
in the opposite corner. He had a red fat face and beautiful white hair.

"I'm not crying," said Peter, rather defiantly.

"Oh! yes, you are--or you were. Supposing you share my lunch and see
whether that will make things any better."

"Thank you very much, but I have some sandwiches," said Peter, feeling for
the paper packet and finding it.

"Well, supposing you come over here and eat yours with me. And if you could
manage to help me with any of mine I should be greatly indebted. I can't
bear having my meals alone, you know."

How can one possibly resist it when the Olympians come down so amiably from
their heights and offer us their hospitality? Moreover the Old Gentleman
had, from his bag, produced the most wonderfully shaped parcels. There was
certainly a meal, and Aunt Jessie's sandwiches would assuredly be thick and
probably no mustard!

So Peter slipped across and sat next to the Old Gentleman, and even shared
a rug. He ultimately shared a great many other things, like chicken and
tongue, apples and pears and plum cake.

"Of course," said the Old Gentleman, "you are going to school and probably
for the first time--and therefore your legs are as weak as pins, you have
a cold pain in the middle of your chest, and you have an intense desire to
see your mother again."

Peter admitted that this was true, although it wasn't his mother whom he
wished to see so much as a friend of his called Stephen, and, one or two
places like the Grey Hill and The Bending Mule. All this interested the Old
Gentleman very much.

"You, too, were at school?" Peter inquired politely.

"I was," said the Old Gentleman.

"And was it like David Copperfield?" said Peter.

"Parts of it--the nice parts. School was the best, the very best time of my
life, my boy, and so you'll find it."

This was immensely reassuring, and Peter felt very much cheered. "You
will make all the friends of your life there. You will learn to be a man.
Dear me!" The Old Gentleman coughed. "I don't know what I would have done
without school. You must have courage, you know," he added.

"I heard some one say once," said Peter, "that courage is the most
important thing to have. It isn't life that matters, but courage, this man
said."

"Bless my soul," the Old Gentleman said, "how old are you, boy?"

"Twelve--nearly thirteen," answered Peter.

"Well, the more you see of boys the better. You might be forty by the way
you talk. You want games and fellows of your own age, that's what you want.
Why I never heard of such a thing, talking about life at your age."

Peter felt that he had done something very wrong, although he hadn't the
least idea of his crime, so he turned the conversation.

"I should like very much," he said, "to hear about your school if you
wouldn't mind."

Then the Old Gentleman began in the most wonderful way, and to hear him
talk you would imagine that school was the paradise to which all good boys
were sent--a deliriously delightful place, with a shop full of sweets,
games without end, friends galore, and a little work now and then to
prevent one's being bored.

Peter listened most attentively with his head against the Old Gentleman's
very warm coat, and then the warmth and the movement of the train caused
the voice to swim further and further away into distance.

"Bless my soul!" Peter heard as though it had been whispered at the end of
the train.

"Here's Exeter, young man. Your father said you were to change here."

A rubbing of eyes, and behold a stout guard in front of the door and no
sign of the Old Gentleman whatever, but when he felt for his ticket in his
side pocket he found also a glittering sovereign that had certainly not
been there when he went asleep.

All this was very encouraging, and Peter followed the guard across the
Exeter platform hopefully and expectantly. Right down the platform, on a
side line, was a little train that reminded Peter of the Treliss to Truro
one, so helpless and incapable did it look. The guard put him and his
luggage into a carriage and then left him with a last word as to Salton
being his destination. He waited here a very long time and nothing
happened. He must have slept again, because when he next looked out of
the window the platform was full of people.

He realised with terror that they were, many of them, boys--boys with
friends and boys without. He watched them with a great feeling of
desolation and homesickness as they flung themselves into carriages and
shouted at one another.

A small boy with a very red face and a round fat body, attended by a tall,
thin lady in black, got into the carriage, and behaving as if Peter weren't
there at all, leaned out of the window.

"All right, mater. That's all right. I'll tell 'em about the socks--old
Mother Gill will look after that."

"You won't forget to send me a post card to-night, Will, dear, will you?"

"No, mater, that's all right. I say, don't you bother to wait if you want
to be off."

"No, dear, I'd like to wait. Don't forget to give father's letter to Mr.
Raggett."

"All right. I say it's rotten for you waiting about, really. Give my love
to Floss!"

"Well, perhaps I had better go. This train seems to be late. Good-bye,
dearest boy."

An interval, during which the stout boy leaned out of the window and was
embraced. Soon his bowler hat was flung wildly on to the rack and he was
leaning out of the window, screaming:

"Cocker! I say, Cocker! Cocker! Oh! dash it, he's going in there. Cocker!
Cocker! Hullo, Bisket! going strong? Cocker! Oh! there he is! Hullo, old
man! Thought I should miss you. Come on in here! Thought I'd never get rid
of the mater. They do hang about!"

A small boy with his hat on one side got into the carriage, stepped on
Peter's feet without apologising, and then the two gentlemen sat down at
the other end of the carriage and exchanged experiences.

"What sort of hols.?"

"Oh, pretty rotten! Got nothing for Christmas at all except a measly knife
or two--governor played it awfully low down."

"I rather scored because my sister had a ripping writing case sent to her,
and I gave her a rotten old book in exchange, and she jolly well had to."

And so it continued. To Peter it was completely unintelligible. The boys
at old Parlow's had never talked like this. He was suddenly flung into a
foreign country. The dismay in his heart grew as he remembered that he was
going into this life entirely alone and without a friend in the world. He
felt that he would, had it been possible, gladly have exchanged this
dreadful plunge for a beating from his father.

At any rate, after that there were friends to whom one might go--after
this?...

As the train dragged slowly and painfully along the dreariness and the
loneliness increased. The dusk fell, and they stopped, as it seemed, every
other minute, and always Peter thought that it must be Salton and prepared
to get out. The two boys in his carriage paid no attention to him whatever,
and their voices continued incessantly, and always the little train jolted
along sleepily wandering through the dark country and carrying him to
unknown terrors. But he set his teeth hard and remembered what the Old
Gentleman had told him. He would fight it out and see it through.

"'Tisn't Life that matters, but the Courage--"

And then suddenly the train stopped, the two boys flung themselves at the
window, and the porter outside, like a magician who kept a rabbit in a bag,
suddenly shouted "Salton!" After that there were mixed impressions. He
stood alone on the dark, windy platform whilst dark figures passed and
repassed him. Then a tall, thin Somebody said "Are you Westcott?" and Peter
said "Yes," and he was conveyed to a large wagonette already crowded with
boys. Then there was a great deal of squeezing, a great deal of noise, and
some one in authority said from somewhere, "Less noise, please."

The wagonette started in a jolting uncertain way, and then they seemed
to go on for ever and ever between dark sweet-smelling hedges with black
trees that swept their heads, and the faint blue of the evening sky on the
horizon. Every one was very quiet now, and Peter fell asleep once more and
dreamed of the Old Gentleman, plum cake, and Stephen.

A sudden pause--the sound of an iron gate being swung back, and Peter was
awake again to see that they were driving up to a dark heavy building that
looked like a hospital or a prison.

"The new boys please follow me," and he found himself, still struggling
with sleep, blinded by the sudden light, following, with some ten others,
a long and thin gentleman who wore a pince-nez. His strongest feeling was
that he was very cold and that he hated everybody and everything. He heard
many voices somewhere in the distance, doors were being continually opened
and shut, and little winds blew down the dismal passages. They were
suddenly in a study lined with books and a stout rubicund gentleman with a
gold watch chain and a habit (as Peter at once discovered) of whistling
through his teeth was writing at a table.

He turned round when he heard them enter and watched them for a moment as
they stood by the door.

"Well, boys" (his voice came from somewhere near his watch chain), "come
and shake hands. How are you all?"

Some eager boy in the front row, with a pleasant smile and a shrill piping
voice said, "Very well, thank you, sir," and Peter immediately hated him.

Then they shook hands and their names were written in a book. The stout
gentleman said, "Well, boys, here you all are. Your first term, you
know--very important. Work and play--work and play. Work first and play
afterwards, and then we'll be friends. Oh, yes! Supper at nine. Prayers at
nine-thirty."

They were all bundled out, and the tall man with pince-nez said: "Now,
boys, you have an hour before supper," and left them without another word
in a long dark passage. The passage was hung with greatcoats and down each
side of it were play-boxes. At the other end, mistily and vaguely, figures
passed.

Peter sat down on one of the play-boxes and saw, to his disgust, that the
eager boy with the piping voice sat down also.

"I say," said the piping boy, "don't you like school awfully?"

"No, I hate it," said Peter.

"Oh, I say! What's your name?"

"Peter."

"Peter! Oh! but your other name. The fellows will rag you most awfully if
you tell them your Christian name."

"Westcott, then."

"Mine's Cheeseman. I'm going to like everybody here and get on. I say,
shall we be chums?"

"No."

"Oh, I say! Why not?"

"Because I don't like you."

"Oh, I say!"

"In another minute I'll break your neck."

"Oh! I say!" The piping boy sprang up from the play-box and stood away.
"All right, you needn't be ratty about it! I'll tell the fellows you said
your name was Peter! They'll give it you."

And the piping boy moved down the passage whistling casually.

After this, silence, and only all the greatcoats swaying a little in the
draught and bulging out and then thinning again as though there were two
persons inside them. Peter sat quite motionless for a long time with his
face in his hands. He was very tired and very cold and very hungry.

A crowd advanced towards him--five or six boys, and one large fat boy was
holding the piping one by the ear.

"Oh, I say! Let me go! Let me go! I'll do your boots up, really I will.
I'll do whatever you like! Oh! I say! There's a new boy. He says his name
is Peter!"

So did the wretched piping one endeavour to divert attention from his own
person. The fat boy, accompanied by a complacent satellite, approached
Peter.

"Hullo, you. What's your name?"

"Westcott."

"'Tisn't. It's Peter."

"Peter Westcott."

"Well, Mr. Peter Westcott, stand up when you're spoken to by your betters.
I say, hack him up, you fellows."

Peter was "hacked" up.

"Now, what do you mean by not speaking when you're spoken to?"

Peter stood square and faced him.

"Oh! you won't speak, won't you? See if this will do it."

Peter's arm and ear were twisted; he was also hit in the mouth.

He was still silent.

Some one in the back of the crowd said, "Oh, come on, you chaps--let's
leave this kid, the other fellow's more fun."

And they passed on bearing the piping one with them.

Peter sat down again; he was feeling sick and his head ached. He buried his
head in the greatcoat that hung above him, and cried quite silently for a
very long time.

A bell rang, and boys ran past him, and he ran with them. He found that it
was supper and that he was sitting with the other new boys at the bottom of
the table, but he could not eat and his head was swimming. Then there were
prayers and, as he knelt on the hard floor with his head against the form,
some one stuck a pin into the soft part of his leg and gave him great pain.

Then at last, and all this time he had spoken to no one, upstairs to bed. A
tall, thin woman in shining black was at the head of the stairs--she read
out to the new boys the numbers of their dormitories in a harsh, metallic
voice. Peter went to his, and found it a long room with twenty beds, twenty
washing basins, and twenty chairs.

One last incident.

He slept and was dreaming. He was climbing the Grey Hill and Stephen was
following him, calling on him. He remembered in his dream that he had not
written Stephen the letter that he had promised, and he turned back down
the hill. Then suddenly the ground began to toss under his feet, he cried
for Stephen, he was flung into the air, he was falling....

He woke and found that he was lying on the floor amongst the tumbled sheets
and blankets. In the distance he could hear stifled laughter. The terror of
that awful wakening was still upon him, and he thought for a moment that he
would die because his heart would never beat again.

Then slowly he gathered his clothes together and tried to arrange them on
the bed. He was dreadfully cold and his toes stuck out at the end of the
bed. He could not cover them.

But, tired as he was, he dared not fall asleep again, lest there should
come once more that dreadful wakening.




CHAPTER V

DAWSON'S, THE GATE INTO HELL


I

A letter from Peter to Stephen:

_Dear, dear Steve,

There's a noise going on and boys are throwing paper and things and there's
another boy jogging my elbows so that I can't hold my pen. Dear Steve, I
hope that you are very, very happy as I am. I am very happy here. I am in
the bottom form because my sums are so awful and my master beat me for
them yesterday but he is nothing to father. I was top in the essay. I like
football--I have a friend who is called Galion (I don't think that is the
right way to spell it. He says that it is like a treasure-ship). He is a
nice boy and Mrs. Trussit was his father's housekeeper once; his father
writes stories. There is a boy I hate called Cheeseman, and one called
Pollock. Please give my love to Mrs. Brant, the cows, Mollie and the pigs,
Mr. and Mrs. Figgis, Mr. Tan and all my friends. Dear Steve, I love you
very, very, very much. I am very happy.

Your loving friend,

Peter Westcott._

A letter from Stephen to Peter:

_Dear Mr. Peter,

I have thought every day of you and I was mighty glad to get your bit of a
letter fearing that, maybe, thiccy place in Devon might have driven your
old friends out of your head. I am no hand with a pen and it is taking me a
time to write this so I will just say that I'm right glad you're happy and
that I'll greet the day I see you again, and that's it's poor trade here
without you.

I am always, your friend,

Stephen Brant._

But Peter had lied in his letter. He was not in any way happy at all. He
had lied because he knew that it would have hurt Stephen if he had told him
the truth--and the truth was something that must be met with clenched teeth
and shoulders set back.

Taking him at the end of the first week one finds simple bewilderment and
also a conviction that silence is the best policy. He was placed in the
lowest form because of his ignorance of Latin and Mathematics, and here
every one was younger and weaker. During school hours there was comparative
peace, and he sat with perplexed brow and inky fingers, or was sent down to
the bottom for inattention. It was not inattention but rather a complete
incapacity for grasping the system on which everything worked. Meanwhile
in this first week he had earned a reputation and made three friends, and
although he did not know it that was not a bad beginning.

On the day after his arrival Peter, after midday dinner, standing
desolately in the playground and feeling certain that he ought to be
playing football somewhere but completely ignorant as to the place where
lists commonly hung, saw another new boy and hailed him. This boy he had
noticed before--he was shapeless of body, with big, round, good-tempered
eyes, and he moved more slowly than any one whom Peter had ever seen.
Nothing stirred him; he did not mind it when his ears were pulled or his
arms twisted, but only said slowly, "Oh, drop it!" To this wonderful boy
Peter made approach.

"Can you tell me where the lists are for football? I ought to have been
playing yesterday only I didn't know where to look."

The slow boy smiled. "I'm going to look myself," he said, "come on."

And then two things happened. First sauntering down the playground there
came a boy whom Peter had noticed on that first morning in school--some one
very little older than Peter and not very much bigger, but with a grace,
a dignity, an air that was very wonderful indeed. He was a dark boy with
his hair carelessly tossed over his forehead; he was very clean and he had
beautiful hands. To Peter's rough and clumsy figure he seemed everything
that a boy should be, and, in his mind, he had called him "Steerforth." As
this boy approached there suddenly burst into view a discordant crowd with
some one in their midst. They were shouting and laughing, and Peter could
hear that some one was crying. The crowd separated and formed a ring and
danced shouting round a very small and chubby boy who was standing crying
quite desperately, with his head buried in his arm. Every now and then the
infant was knocked by one boy in the ring into another boy's arms, and so
was tossed from side to side.

The hopeless sound of the chubby one's crying caused Peter suddenly to
go red hot somewhere inside his chest, and like a bullet from a gun he
was into the middle of the circle. "You beasts! You beasts," he sobbed
hysterically. He began to hit wildly, with his head down, at any one
near him, and very soon there was a glorious mêlée. The crowd roared
with laughter as they flung the two small boys against one another, then
suddenly one of the circle got a wild blow in the eye from Peter's fist and
went staggering back, another was kicked in the shins, a third was badly
winded. Peter had lost all sense of place or time, of reason or sanity; he
was wild with excitement, and the pent-up emotions of the last five days
found magnificent overwhelming freedom. He did not know whether he were hit
or no, once he was down and in an instant up again--once a face was close
to his and he drove hard at the mouth--but he was small and his arms and
legs were short. Indeed it would have gone badly with him had there not
been heard, in all the roar of battle, the mystic whisper "Binns," and in
an instant, as the snow flies before the sun, so had that gallant crowd
disappeared. Only the small cause of the disturbance and Peter remained.
The tall form of a master passed slowly down the playground, but it
appeared that he had seen nothing, and he did not speak. The small boy was
gazing at Peter with wide-opened eyes, large in a white face on which were
many tear stains. Peter, who was conscious now that blood was pouring from
a cut in his cheek, that one of his teeth was missing and that one of his
eyes was fast closing, was about to speak to him when he was aware that his
"Steerforth" had sprung from nowhere and was advancing gracefully to meet
him. Peter's heart beat very fast.

The boy smiled at him and held out his hand.

"I say, shake hands. You've got pluck--my eye! I never saw such a rag!"

Peter shook hands and was speechless.

"What's your name?"

"Westcott."

"Mine's Cardillac. It isn't spelt as it's spoken, you know.
C-a-r-d-i-l-l-a-c. I'm in White's--what do you say to places next each
other at table?"

"Rather." Peter's face was crimson. "Thanks most awfully." He stammered in
his eagerness.

"Right you are--see you after chapel." The boy moved away.

Peter said something to the infant whom he had delivered, and was
considering where he might most unobtrusively wash when he was once more
conscious of some one at his elbow. It was the slow boy who was smiling at
him.

"I say, you're a sight. You'd better wash, you know."

"Yes, I was just thinking of that only I didn't quite know where to go."

"Come with me--I'll get round Mother Gill all right. She likes me. You've
got some cheek. Prester and Banks Mi, and all sorts of fellows were in that
crowd. You landed Prester nicely." He chuckled. "What's your name?"

"Westcott."

"Mine's Galleon."

"Galleon?" Peter's eyes shone. "I say, you didn't ever have a housekeeper
called Mrs. Trussit?"

"Trussit? Yes, rather, of course I remember, when I was awfully small."

"Why, she's ours now! Then it must be your father who writes books!"

"Yes, rather. He's most awfully famous!"

Peter stopped still, his mouth open with excitement.

Of all the amazing things! What doesn't life give you if you trust it!


II

But before it became a question of individuals there is the place to be
considered. This Dawson's of twenty years ago does not exist now nor, let
us pray the Fates, are there others like it. It is not only with bitterness
that a boy whom Dawson's had formed would look back on it but also with
a dim, confused wonder that he had escaped with a straight soul and a
straight body from that Place. There were many, very many indeed, who did
not escape, and it would indeed have been better for them all had they died
before they were old enough to test its hospitality. If any of those into
whose hands this story of Peter may fall were, by the design of God,
themselves trained by the place of which I speak, they will understand that
all were not as fortunate as Peter--and for those others there should be
sympathy....

To Peter indeed it all came very slowly because he had known so little
before. He had not been a week in the place before there were very many
things that he was told--there were other things that he saw for himself.

There is, for instance, at the end of the third week, the incident of
Ferris, the Captain of the School. He was as a God in Peter's eyes, he was
greater, more wonderful than Stephen, than any one in the world. His word
was law....

One late afternoon Peter cleaned plates for him in his study, and Ferris
watched him. Ferris was kind and talked about many things out of his great
wisdom, and then he asked Peter whether he would always like to be his fag,
and Peter, delighted, said "Yes."

Then Ferris smiled and spoke, dropping his voice. Three weeks earlier Peter
would not have understood, but now he understood quite well and he went
very white and broke from the room, leaving the plates where they were--and
Cheeseman became Ferris' fag--

This was all very puzzling and perplexing to Peter.

But after that first evening when he had hidden his head in the greatcoat
and cried, he had shown no sign of fear and he soon found that, on that
side of Life, things became easy. He was speedily left alone, and indeed he
must have been, in spite of his small size, something of a figure even
then.

His head was so very firm on his shoulders, his grey eyes were so very
straight, and his lip curled in a disagreeable way when he was displeased;
he was something of the bulldog, and even at this early period the First
and Second forms showed signs of meek surrender to his leadership. But he
was, of course, not happy--he was entirely miserable. He would be happier
later on when he had been able to arrange all these puzzling certainties so
different from those dazzling imaginations that he had painted. How strange
of him to have been so glad to leave Stephen and the others--even old
Curtis! What could he have thought was coming!

He remembered as though it had been another life that Christmas Eve, the
fight, the beating, the carols....

And yet, with it all, with the dreariness and greyness and fierceness and
dirtiness of it all, he would not change it for those earlier things--this
was growing, this was growing up!

He was certainly happier after his meeting with Cardillac--"Cards" as he
was always called. Here was a hero indeed! Not to displace, of course,
Stephen, who remained as a stained-glass window remains, to be looked at
and treasured and remembered--but here was a living wonder! Every movement
that Cards made was astounding, and not only Peter felt it. Even the
masters seemed to suggest that he was different from the rest and watched
him admiringly. Cards was only fourteen, but he had seen the world. He had
been with his mother (his father was dead) about Europe, he knew London, he
had been to the theatres; school, he gave them all to understand, was an
interim in the social round. He took Peter's worship very easily and went
for walks with him and talked in a wonderful way. He admired Peter's
strength.

Peter found that Galleon--Bobby Galleon--was disappointing, not very
interesting. He had never read his father's books, and he couldn't tell
Peter very much about the great man; he was proud of him but rather
reserved. He had not many ideas about anything and indeed when he went
for a walk with Peter was usually very silent, although always in a good
temper. Cards thought Galleon very dull and never spoke to him if he could
avoid doing so, and Peter was sometimes quite angry with Galleon because he
would "turn up so" when one might have had Cards to oneself.

Peter's main feeling about it all when half term arrived was that one must
just stand with one's back to the wall if one was to avoid being hurt. He
did not now plunge into broils to help other people; he found that it did
not in reality help them and that it only meant that he got kicked as well
as the other boy. One's life was a diligent watchfulness with the end in
view of avoiding the enemy. The enemy was to be found in any shape and
form; there was no security by night or day, but on the whole life was
safer if one spoke as little as possible and stuck to the wall. There were
Devils--most certainly Devils--roaming the world, and as he watched the
Torture and the Terror and then the very dreadful submission, he vowed with
clenched lips that he would never Submit...and so gradually he was learning
the truth of that which Frosted Moses had spoken...

Cornwall, meanwhile--the Grey Hill, Scaw House, the hills above
Truro--remained to him during these weeks, securely hidden.


III

There remains to be chronicled of that first term only the Comber Fight
and, a little conversation, one windy day, with Galleon. The small boy, by
name Beech Minimus, whom Peter had defended on that earlier occasion, had
attached himself with unswerving fidelity to his preserver. He was round
and fat, and on his arrival had had red cheeks and sparkling eyes--now he
was pale and there were lines under his eyes; he started if any one spoke
to him, and was always eager to hide when possible. Peter was very sorry
for him, but, after a month of the term had passed he had, himself,
acquired the indifference of those that stand with their backs to the wall.
Beech would go on any kind of errand for him and would willingly have died
for him had it been required of him--he did indeed during the hours that he
was left in peace in his dormitory, picture to himself wonderful scenes in
which he saved Peter from horrible deaths and for his own part perished.

It may have been that he clung to Peter partly because there was more
safety in his neighbourhood, for amongst the lower school boys at any rate,
very considerable fear of Peter was to be noticed, but Beech's large eyes
raised to the other boy's face or his eager smile as he did something that
Peter required of him, spoke devotion.

Beech Minimus was forced, however, for the good of his soul, to suffer
especial torture between the hours of eight and nine in the evening. It was
the custom that the Lower School should retire from preparation at eight
o'clock, it being supposed that at that hour the Lower School went to bed.
But Authority, blinded by trustful good nature and being engaged at that
hour with its wine and dinner, left the issue to chance and the Gods, and
human nature being what it is, the Lower School triumphed in freedom. There
was a large, empty class room at the back of the building where much noise
might safely be made, and in this place and at this hour followed the
nightly torture of Beech and his minute companions--that torture named by
the Gods, "Discipline," by the Authorities, "Boys will be Boys," by the
Parent, "Learning to be a Man," and by the Lower School "A Rag." Beech and
his companions had not as yet a name for it. Peter was, as a rule, left to
his own thoughts and spent the hours amongst the greatcoats in the passage
reading David Copperfield or talking in whispers to Bobby Galleon. But
nevertheless he was not really indifferent, he was horribly conscious even
in his sleep, of Beech's shrill "Oh! Comber, don't! Please, Comber, oh!"
and Beech being in the same dormitory as himself he noticed, almost against
his will, that shivering little mortal as he crept into bed and cowered
beneath the sheets wondering whether before morning he would be tossed in
sheets or would find his bed drenched in water or would be beaten with hair
brushes. Peter's philosophy of standing it in silence and hitting back if
he were himself attacked was scarcely satisfactory in Beech's case, and,
again and again, his attention would be dragged away from his book to that
other room where some small boys were learning lessons in life.

The head of this pleasant sport was one Comber, a large, pale-faced boy,
some years older than his place in the school justified, but of a crass
stupidity, a greedy stomach and a vicious cruelty. Peter had already met
him in football and had annoyed him by collaring him violently on one
occasion, it being the boy's habit, owing to his size and reputation, to
run down the field in the Lower School game, unattacked. Peter's hatred
of him grew more intense week by week; some days after Mid-Term, it had
swollen into a passion. He finally told Bobby Galleon one day at luncheon
that on that very evening he was going to defy this Comber. Galleon
besought him not to do this, pointing out Comber's greater strength and the
natural tendency of the Lower School to follow their leader blindly. Peter
said nothing in reply but watched, when eight o'clock had struck and the
Lower School had assembled in the class room, for his moment. It was a
somewhat piteous spectacle. Comber and some half a dozen friends in the
middle of the room, and forty boys ranging in years from eight to twelve,
waiting with white faces and propitiatory smiles, eager to assist in the
Torture if they only might themselves be spared.

"Now you chaps," this from Comber--"we'll have a Gauntlet. I votes we make
young Beech run first."

"Rather! Come on, Beech--you've jolly well got to."

"Buck up, you funk!" from those relieved that they were themselves, for the
instant, safe.

Peter was sitting on a bench at the back of the room--he stood on the bench
and shouted, "You're a beast. Comber."

There was immediate silence--every one turned first to Comber, and then
back to Peter. Comber paused in the preparation of the string whip that he
was making, and his face was crimson.

"Oh, it's you, you young skunk, is it? Bring him here some of you fellows."

Eager movements were made in his direction, but Peter, still standing on
his bench, shouted: "I claim a fight."

There was silence again--a silence now of incredulity and amazement. But
there was nothing to be done; if any one claimed a fight, by all the rules
and traditions of Dawson's he must have it. But that Westcott, a new boy
and in the bottom form should challenge Comber! Slowly, and as it were
against their will, hearts beat a little faster, faces brightened. Of
course Westcott would be most hopelessly beaten, but might not this prove
the beginning of the end of their tyrant?

Meanwhile, Comber between his teeth: "All right, you young devil, I'll give
you such a hiding as you damned well won't forget. Then we'll treat you
properly afterwards."

A ring was made, and there was silence, so that the prefects might not
be attracted, because fighting in the Lower School was forbidden. Coats
were taken off and Peter faced Comber with the sensation of attacking a
mountain. Peter knew nothing about fighting at all, but Comber had long
subsisted on an easy reputation and he was a coward at heart. There swung
into Peter's brain the picture of The Bending Mule, the crowding faces, the
swinging lamp, Stephen with the sledge-hammer blow...it was the first time
for weeks that he had thought of Treliss.

He was indifferent--he did not care; things could not be worse, and he did
not mind what happened to him, and Comber minded very much indeed, and he
had not been hit in the face for a long time. His arms went round like
windmills, and the things that he would like to have done were to pull
Peter's hair from its roots and to bite him on the arm. As the fight
proceeded and he knew that his face was bleeding and that the end of
his nose had no sensation in it at all he kicked with his feet and was
conscious of cries that he was not playing the game. Infuriated that his
recent supporters should so easily desert him, he now flung himself upon
Peter, who at once gave way beneath the bigger boy's weight. Comber then
began to bite and tear and scratch, uttering shrill screams of rage and
kicking on the floor with his feet. He was at once pulled away, assured
by those dearest friends who had so recently and merrily assisted him in
his "rags" that he was not playing the game and was no sportsman. He was
moreover a ludicrous sight, his trousers being torn, one blue-black eye
staring from a confused outline of dust and blood, his hair amazingly on
end.

There were also many cries of "Shame, Comber," "Dirty game," and even "Well
played young Westcott!"

He knew as he wept bitter tears into his blood-stained hands that his reign
was at an end.

There were indeed, for the time at any rate, no more "rags," and Peter
might, an he would, have reigned magnificently over the Lower School. But
he was as silent and aloof as ever, and was considered "a sidey devil, but
jolly plucky, by Gad."

And for himself he got at any rate the more continued companionship of
Cards, who languidly, and, perhaps a younger Sir Willoughby Patterne "with
a leg," admired his muscle.


IV

Finally, towards the end of the term, Peter and Bobby Galleon may be seen
sitting on a high hill. It is a Sunday afternoon in spring, and far away
there is a thin line of faintly blue hills. Nearer to view there are grey
heights more sharply outlined and rough, like drawing paper--painted with
a green wood, a red-roofed farm, a black church spire, and a brown ploughed
field. Immediately below them a green hedge hanging over a running stream
that has caught the blue of the sky. Above them vast swollen clouds
flooding slowly with the faint yellow of the coming sunset, hanging
stationary above the stream and seeming to have flung to earth some patches
of their colour in the first primroses below the hedge. A rabbit watches,
his head out of his hole.

The boys' voices cut the air.

"I say, Bobby, don't you ever wonder about things--you never seem to want
to ask questions."

"No, I don't suppose I do. I'm awfully stupid. Father says so."

"It's funny your being stupid when your father's so clever."

"Do you mind my being stupid?"

"No--only I'd like you to w