d Sanctifier. No man who was in that meeting
would dare plead ignorance of the way to be saved. Many signified their
desire to give their lives into the keeping of Christ before they went to
the front. The meeting broke up reluctantly and the men drifted out and
away, expecting soon to be called to go. But something happened that they
did not go that night. Meantime, a company had just returned from the
front, weary, hungry, worn and bleeding, with their nerves unstrung, and
their spirits desperate from the tumult and horror of the hours they had
just passed in battle. They needed cheering and soothing back to normal.
The girls were preparing to do this with a bright, cheery entertainment,
when a deputation of boys from the night before returned. There was a
wistful gleam in the eyes of the young Jew who was spokesman for the group
as he approached the lassie who had led the meeting.

"Say, Cap, you see we didn't go up."

"I see," she smiled happily.

"Say, Cap, won't you have another farewell meeting to-night?" he asked
with an appealing glance in his dark eyes.

"Son, we've arranged something else just now for the fellows who are
coming back," she said gently, for she hated to refuse such a request.

"Oh, say, Cap, you can have that later, can't you? We want another meeting
now."

There was something so pleading in his voice and eyes, so hungry in the
look of the waiting group, that the young Captain could not deny him. She
looked at him hesitatingly, and then said:

"All right. Go out and tell the boys."

He hurried out and soon the company came crowding in. That hour the very
Lord came down and communed with them as they sang and knelt to pray, and
not a heart but was melted and tender as they went out when it was over in
the solemn darkness of the early morning. A little later the order came
and they "went over."

It was a sharp, fierce fight, and the young Jew was mortally wounded. Some
comrades found him as he lay white and helpless on the ground, and bending
over saw that he had not long to stay. They tried to lift him and bear him
back, but he would not let them. He knew it was useless.

They asked him if he had any message. He nodded. Yes, he wanted to send a
message to the Salvation Army girls. It was this:

"Tell the girls I've gone West; for I will be by the time you tell them;
and tell them it's all right for at that second meeting I accepted Christ
and I die resting on the same Saviour that is theirs."

One of our wonderful boys out on the drive had his hand blown off and
didn't realize it. His chum tried to drag him back and told him his hand
was gone.

"That's nothing!" he cried. "Tie it up!"

But they forced him back lest he would bleed to death. In the hospital
they told him that now he might go home.

"Go home!" he cried. "Go home for the loss of a left hand! I'm not left-
handed. Maybe I can't carry a gun, but I can throw hand grenades!"

He went to the Major and the Major said also that he must go home.

The boy looked him straight in the eye:

"Excuse me, Major, saying I won't. But _I won't let go your coat_
till you say I can stay," and finally the Major had to give in and let him
stay. He could not resist such pleading.

One poor fellow, wounded in his abdomen, was lying on a litter in a most
uncomfortable position suffering awful pain. The lassie came near and
asked if she could do anything for him. He told her he wanted to lie on
his stomach, but the doctor, when she asked him, said "No" very shortly
and told her he must lie on his back. She stooped and turned him so that
his position was more comfortable, put his gas mask under his head, rolled
his blanket so as to support his shoulders better, and turned to go to
another, and the poor suffering lad opened his eyes, held out his hand and
smiled as she went away.

The doctors said to the girls: "It is wonderful to have you around."

The Red Cross men and their rolling kitchens came to the front, but no
women. Somehow in pain and sickness no hand can sooth like a woman's.
Perhaps God meant it to be so. Here at Morte Fontaine was the first time a
woman had ever worked in a field hospital.

The Salvation Army women worked all that drive.

It was a sad time, though, for the division went in to stay until they
lost forty-five hundred men, but it stayed two days after reaching that
figure and lost about seventy-five thousand.

The doctor in charge of the evacuation hospital at Crepy spoke of the
effect of the Salvation Army girls, not alone upon the wounded, but also
upon the medical-surgical staff and the men of the hospital corps who
acted as nurses in that advanced position. "Before they came," he said,
"we were overwrought, everyone seemed at the breaking point, what with the
nervous tension and danger. But the very sight of women working calmly had
a soothing effect on everyone."

When the drive was over orders came to leave. The following is the
official notice to the Salvation Army officers:


G-1 Headquarters, 1st Division, American Expeditionary Forces, July 26,
1918.

_Memorandum._

To Directors, Y.M.C.A., Red Cross, Salvation Army Services, 1st Division.

1. This division moves by rail to destination unknown beginning at 6.00
A.M., July 28th. Motor organizations of the Division move overland. Your
motorized units will accompany the advanced section of the Division Supply
Train, and will form a part of that train.

2. Time of departure and routes to be taken will be announced later.

3. Secretaries attached to units may accompany units, if it is so desired.

By command of Major-General Summerall.

                                      P. E. Peabody,
                                      Captain, Infantry,
                                      G-1

Copies:
YMCA
Red Cross
Salvation Army
G-3
C. of S.
File


The girls stowed themselves and their belongings into the big truck. Just
as they were about to start they saw some infantry coming, seven men whom
they knew, but in such a plight! They were unshaven, with white, sunken
faces, and great dark hollows under their eyes. They were simply "all in,"
and could hardly walk.

Without an instant's hesitation the girls made a place for those poor,
tired, dirty men in the truck, and the invitation was gratefully accepted.

There were more poor forlorn fellows coming along the road. They kept
meeting them every little way, but they had no room to take in any more so
they piled oranges in the back end of the truck and gave them to all the
boys they passed who were walking.

Now the girls were on their way to Senlis, where they had planned to take
dinner at a hotel in which they had dined before. It was one of the few
buildings remaining in the town for the Germans, when they left Senlis,
had set it on fire and destroyed nearly everything. But as the girls
neared the town they began to think about the boys asleep in the back of
the truck, who probably hadn't had a square meal for a week, and they
decided to take them with them. So they woke them up when they arrived at
the hotel. Oh, but those seven dirty, unshaven soldiers were embarrassed
with the invitation to dinner! At first they declined, but the girls
insisted, and they found a place to wash and tidy up themselves a bit. In
a few minutes into the big dining-room filled with French soldiers and a
goodly sprinkling of French officers, marched those two girls, followed by
their seven big unshaven soldiers with their white faces and hollow eyes,
sat proudly down at a table in the very centre and ordered a big dinner.
That is the kind of girls Salvation Army lassies are. Never ashamed to do
a big right thing.

After the dinner they took the boys to their divisional headquarters,
where they found their outfit.

They went on their way from Senlis to Dam-Martin to stay for a week back
of the lines for rest.

There was a big French cantonment building here built for moving pictures,
which was given to them for a canteen, and they set up their stove and
went to work making doughnuts, and doing all the helpful things they could
find to do for the boys who were soon to go to the front again.

Then orders came to move back to the Toul Sector.

 Those were wonderful moonlight nights at Saizerais, but the Boche
airplanes nearly pestered the life out of everybody.

"Gee!" said one of the boys, "if anybody ever says 'beautiful moonlight
nights' to me when I get home I don't know what I'll do to 'em!"

The boys were at the front, but not fighting as yet. Occasional shells
would burst about their hut here and there, but the girls were not much
bothered by them. The thing that bothered them most was an old "Vin" shop
across the street that served its wine on little tables set out in front
on the sidewalk. They could not help seeing that many of the boys were
beginning to drink. Poor souls! The water was bad and scarce, sometimes
poisoned, and their hearts were sick for something, and this was all that
presented itself. It was not much wonder. But when the girls discovered
the state of things they sent off three or four boys with a twenty-gallon
tank to scout for some water. They found it after much search and filled
the big tank full of delicious lemonade, telling the boys to help
themselves.

All the time they were in that town, which was something like a week, the
girls kept that tank full of lemonade close by the door. They must have
made seventy-five or a hundred gallons of lemonade every day, and they had
to squeeze all the lemons by hand, too! They told the boys: "When you feel
thirsty just come here and get lemonade as often as you want it!" No
wonder they almost worship those girls. And they had the pleasure of
seeing the trade of the little wine shop decidedly decrease.

However near the front you may go you will always find what is known over
there in common parlance as a "hole in the wall" where "vin blanche" and
"vin rouge" and all kinds of light wines can be had. And, of course, many
soldiers would drink it. The Salvation Army tried to supply a great need
by having carloads of lemons sent to the front and making and distributing
lemonade freely.

One cannot realize the extent of this proposition without counting up all
the lemons and sugar that would be required, and remembering that supplies
were obtained only by keeping in constant touch with the Headquarters of
that zone and always sending word immediately when any need was
discovered. There is nothing slow about the Salvation Army and they are
not troubled with too much red tape. If necessity presents itself they
will even on occasion cut what they have to help someone.

The airplanes visited them every night that week, and sometimes they did
not think it worth while to go to bed at all; they had to run to the
safety trenches so often. It was just a little bit of a village with
dugouts out on the edge.

One night they had gone to bed and a terrific explosion occurred which
rocked the little house where they were. They thought of course the bomb
had fallen in the village, but they found it was quite outside. It had
made such a big hole in the ground that you could put a whole truck into
it.

The trenches in which they hid were covered over with boards and sand, and
were not bomb proof, but they were proof against pieces of shell and
shrapnel.

It was a very busy time for the girls because so many different outfits
were passing and repassing that they had to work from morning early till
late at night.

At Bullionville the hut was in a building that bore the marks of much
shelling. The American boys promptly dubbed the place "Souptown."

The Division moved to Vaucouleurs for rest and replacements. At
Vaucouleurs there was a great big hut with a piano, a victrola, and a
cookstove.

They started the canteen, made doughnuts and pies, and gave
entertainments.

But best of all, there were wonderful meetings and numbers of conversions,
often twenty and twenty-five at a time giving themselves to Christ. The
boys would get up and testify of their changed feelings and of what Christ
now meant to them, and the others respected them the more for it.

They stayed here two weeks and everybody knew they were getting ready for
a big drive. It was a solemn time for the boys and they seemed to draw
nearer to the Salvation Army people and long to get the secret of their
brave, unselfish lives, and that light in their eyes that defied danger
and death. In the distance you could hear the artillery, and the night
before they left, all night long, there was the tramp, tramp, tramp of
feet, the boys "going up."

The next day the girls followed in a truck, stopping a few days at Pagny-
sur-Meuse for rest.




VIII.

The Saint Mihiel Drive



The hut in Raulecourt was an old French barracks. Outside in the yard was
an old French anti-aircraft gun and a mesh of barbed wire entanglement.
The woods all around was filled with our guns. To the left was the enemy's
third line trench. Three-quarters of the time the Boche were trying to
clean us up. Less than two miles ahead were our own front line trenches.

The field range was outside in the back yard.

One hot day in July a Salvation Army woman stood at the range frying
doughnuts from eleven in the morning until six at night without resting,
and scarcely stopping for a bite to eat. She fried seventeen hundred
doughnuts, and was away from the stove only twice for a few minutes. She
claims, however, that she is not the champion doughnut fryer. The champion
fried twenty-three hundred in a day.

One day a soldier watching her tired face as she stood at the range
lifting out doughnuts and plopping more uncooked ones into the fat,
protested.

"Say, you're awfully tired turning over doughnuts. Let me help you. You go
inside and rest a while. I'm sure I can do that."

She was tired and the boy looked eager, so she decided to accept his
offer. He was very insistent that she go away and rest, so she slipped in
behind a screen to lie down, but peeped out to watch how he was getting
on. She saw him turn over the first doughnuts all right and drain them,
but he almost burned his fingers trying to eat one before it was fairly
out of the fat; and then she understood why he had been so anxious for her
to "_go away_" and rest.

Often the boys would come to the lassies and say: "Say, Cap, I can help
you. Loan me an apron." And soon they would be all flour from their chin
to their toes.

They would come about four o'clock to find out what time the doughnuts
would be ready for serving, and the girls usually said six o'clock so that
they would be able to fry enough to supply all the regiment. But the men
would start to line up at half-past four, knowing that they could not be
served until six, so eager were they for these delicacies. When six
o'clock came each man would get three doughnuts and a cup of delicious
coffee or chocolate. A great many doughnut cutters were worn out as the
days went by and the boys frequently had to get a new cutter made.
Sometimes they would take the top of quite a large-sized can or anything
tin that they could lay hands on from which to make it. One boy found the
top of an extra large sized baking powder tin and took it to have a
smaller cutter soldered in the centre. Sometimes they used the top of the
shaving soap box for this. When he got back to the hut the cook exclaimed
in dismay: "Why, but it's too big!"

"Oh, that's all right," said the doughboy nonchalantly.

"That'll be all the better for us. We'll get more doughnut. You always
give us three anyway, you know. The size don't count."

They were always scheming to get more pie and more doughnuts and would
stand in line for hours for a second helping. One day the Salvation Army
woman grew indignant over a noticeably red-headed boy who had had three
helpings and was lining up for a fourth. She stood majestically at the
head of the line and pointed straight at him: "You! With the red head down
there! Get out of the line!"

"She's got my number all right!" said the red-headed one, grinning
sheepishly as he dropped back.

The town of Raulecourt was often shelled, but one morning just before
daybreak the enemy started in to shell it in earnest. Word came that the
girls had better leave as it was very dangerous to remain, but the girls
thought otherwise and refused to leave. One might have thought they
considered that they were real soldiers, and the fate of the day depended
upon them. And perhaps more depended upon them than they knew. However
that was they stayed, having been through such experiences before. For the
older woman, however, it was a first experience. She took it calmly
enough, going about her business as if she, too, were an old soldier.

On the evening of June 14th they made fudge for the boys who were going to
leave that night for the front lines.

For several hours the tables in the hut were filled with men writing
letters to loved ones at home, and the women and girls had sheets of paper
filled with addresses to which they had promised to write if the boys did
not come back.

At last one of the men got up with his finished letter and quietly removed
the phonograph and a few of its devotees who were not going up to the
front yet, placing them outside at a safe distance from the hut. A soldier
followed, carrying an armful of records, and the hut was cleared for the
men who were "going in" that night.

For a little while they ate fudge and then they sang hymns for another
half hour, and had a prayer. It was a very quiet little meeting. Not much
said. Everyone knew how solemn the occasion was. Everyone felt it might be
his last among them. It was as if the brooding Christ had made Himself
felt in every heart. Each boy felt like crying out for some strong arm to
lean upon in this his sore need. Each gave himself with all his heart to
the quiet reaching up to God. It was as if the eating of that fudge had
been a solemn sacrament in which their souls were brought near to God and
to the dear ones they might never see on this earth again. If any one had
come to them then and suggested the Philosophy of Nietzsche it would have
found little favor. They knew, here, in the face of death, that the Death
of Jesus on the Cross was a soul satisfying creed. Those who had accepted
Him were suddenly taken within the veil where they saw no longer through a
glass darkly, but with a face-to-face sense of His presence. They had
dropped away their self assurance with which they had either conquered or
ignored everything so far in life, and had become as little children,
ready to trust in the Everlasting Father, without whom they had suddenly
discovered they could not tread the ways of Death.

Then came the call to march, and with a last prayer the boys filed
silently out into the night and fell into line. A few minutes later the
steady tramp of their feet could be heard as they went down the street
that led to the front.

Later in the night, quite near to morning, there came a terrific shock of
artillery fire that heralded a German raid. The fragile army cots rocked
like cradles in the hut, dishes rolled and danced on the shelves and
tables, and were dashed to fragments on the floor. Shells wailed and
screamed overhead; and our guns began, until it seemed that all the sounds
of the universe had broken forth. In the midst of it all the gas alarm
sounded, the great electric horns screeching wildly above the babel of
sound. The women hurried into their gas masks, a bit flustered perhaps,
but bearing their excitement quietly and helping each other until all were
safely breathing behind their masks.

The next day several times officers came to the hut and begged the women
to leave and go to a place of greater safety, but they decided not to go
unless they were ordered away. On June 19th one of them wrote in her
diary: "Shells are still flying all about us, but our work is here and we
must stay. God will protect us." Once when things grew quiet for a little
while she went to the edge of the village and watched the shells falling
on Boucq, where one of her friends was stationed, and declared: "It looks
awfully bad, almost as bad as it sounds."

The next morning as the firing gradually died away, Salvation Army people
hurried up to Raulecourt from near-by huts to find out how these brave
women were, and rejoiced unspeakably that every one was safe and well.

That night there was another wonderful meeting with the boys who were
going to the front, and after it the weary workers slept soundly the whole
night through, quietly and undisturbed, the first time for a week.

It was a bright, beautiful Sunday morning, June 23, 1918, when a little
party of Salvationists from Raulecourt started down into the trenches. The
muddy, dirty, unpleasant trenches! Sometimes with their two feet firmly
planted on the duck-board, sometimes in the mud! Such mud! If you got both
feet on it at once you were sure you were planted and would soon begin to
grow!

As soon as they reached the trenches they were told: "Keep your heads
down, ladies, the snipers are all around!" It was an intense moment as
they crept into the narrow housings where the men had to spend so much
time. But it was wonderful to watch the glad light that came into the
men's eyes as they saw the women.

"Here's a real, honest-to-goodness American woman in the trenches!"
exclaimed a homesick lad as they came around a turn.

"Yes, your mother couldn't come to-day," said the motherly Salvationist,
smiling a greeting, "so I've come in her place."

"All right!" said he, entering into the game. "This is Broadway and that's
Forty-second Street. Sit down."

Of course there was nothing to sit down on in the trenches. But he hunted
about till he found a chow can and turned it up for a seat, and they had a
pleasant talk.

"Just wait," he said. "I'll show you a picture of the dearest little girl
a fellow ever married and the darlingest little kid ever a man was father
to!" He fumbled in his breast pocket right over his heart and brought out
two photographs.

"I'd give my right arm to see them this minute, but for all that," he went
on, "I wouldn't leave till we've fought this thing through to Berlin and
given them a dose of what they gave little Belgium!"

They went up and down the trenches, pausing at the entrances to dugouts to
smile and talk with the men. Once, where a grassy ridge hid the trench
from the enemy snipers, they were permitted to peep over, but there was no
look of war in the grassy, placid meadow full of flowers that men called
"No Man's Land." It seemed hard to believe, that sunny, flower-starred
morning, that Sin and Hate had the upper hand and Death was abroad
stalking near in the sunlight.

It was a twelve-mile walk through the trenches and back to the hut, and
when they returned they found the men were already gathering for the
evening meeting.

That night, at the close of a heart-searching talk, eighty-five men arose
to their feet in token that they would turn from the ways of sin and
accept Christ as their Saviour, and many more raised their hands for
prayers. One of the women of this party in her three months in France saw
more than five hundred men give themselves to Christ and promise to serve
Him the rest of their lives.

A little Adjutant lassie who was stationed at Boucq went away from the
town for a few hours on Saturday, and when she returned the next day she
found the whole place deserted. A big barrage had been put over in the
little, quiet village while she was away and the entire inhabitants had
taken refuge in the General's dugout. Her husband, who had brought her
back, insisted that she should return to the Zone Headquarters at Ligny-
en-Barrios, where he was in charge, and persuaded her to start with him,
but when they reached Menil-la-Tour and found that the division Chaplain
was returning to Boucq she persuaded her husband that she must return with
the Chaplain to her post of duty.

That night she and the other girls slept outside the dugout in little
tents to leave more room in the dugout for the French women with their
little babies. At half-past three in the morning the Germans started their
shelling once more. After two hours, things quieted down somewhat and the
girls went to the hut and prepared a large urn of coffee and two big
batches of hot biscuits. While they were in the midst of breakfast there
was another barrage. All day they were thus moving backward and forward
between the hut and the dugout, not knowing when another barrage would
arrive. The Germans were continually trying to get the chateau where the
General had his headquarters. One shell struck a house where seven boys
were quartered, wounding them all and killing one of them. Things got so
bad that the Divisional Headquarters had to leave; the General sent his
car and transferred the girls with all their things to Trondes. This was
back of a hill near Boucq. They arrived at three in the afternoon, put up
their stove and began to bake. By five they were serving cake they had
baked. The boys said: "What! Cake already?" The soldiers put up the hut
and had it finished in six hours.

While all this was going on the Salvation Army friends over at Raulecourt
had been watching the shells falling on Boueq, and been much troubled
about them.

These were stirring times. No one had leisure to wonder what had become of
his brother, for all were working with all their might to the one great
end.

Up north of Beaumont two aviators were caught by the enemy's fire and
forced to land close to the enemy nests. Instead of surrendering the
Americans used the guns on their planes and held off the Germans until
darkness fell, when they managed to escape and reach the American lines.
This was only one of many individual feats of heroism that helped to turn
the tide of battle. The courage and determination, one might say the
enthusiasm, of the Americans knew no bounds. It awed and overpowered the
enemy by its very eagerness. The Americans were having all they could do
to keep up with the enemy. The artillerymen captured great numbers of
enemy cannon, ammunition, food and other supplies, which the trucks
gathered up and carried far to the front, where they were ready for the
doughboys when they arrived. One of the greatest feats of engineering ever
accomplished by the American Army was the bridging of the Meuse, in the
region of Stenay, under terrible shell fire, using in the work of building
the pontoons the Boche boats and materials captured during the fighting at
Chateau-Thierry and which had been brought from Germany for the Kaiser's
Paris offensive in July. The Meuse had been flooded until it was a mile
wide, yet there was more than enough material to bridge it.

As the Americans advanced, village after village was set free which had
been robbed and pillaged by the Germans while under their domination. The
Yankee trucks as they returned brought the women and children back from
out of the range of shell fire, and they were filled with wonder as they
heard the strange language on the tongues of their rescuers. They knew it
was not the German, but they had many of them never seen an American
before. The Germans had told them that Americans were wild and barbarous
people. Yet these men gathered the little hungry children into their arms
and shared their rations with them. There were three dirty, hungry little
children, all under ten years of age, Yvonne, Louisette and Jeane, whose
father was a sailor stationed at Marseilles. Yvonne was only four years of
age, and she told the soldiers she had never seen her father. They climbed
into the big truck and sat looking with wonder at the kindly men who
filled their hands with food and asked them many questions. By and by,
they comprehended that these big, smiling, cheerful men were going to take
the whole family to their father. What wonder, what joy shone in their
eager young eyes!

Strange and sad and wonderful sights there were to see as the soldiers
went forward.

A pioneer unit was rushed ahead with orders to conduct its own campaign
and choose its own front, only so that contact was established with the
enemy, and to this unit was attached a certain little group of Salvation
Army people. Three lassies, doing their best to keep pace with their own
people, reached a battered little town about four o'clock in the morning,
after a hard, exciting ride.

The supply train had already put up the tent for them, and they were
ordered to unfold their cots and get to sleep as soon as possible. But
instead of obeying orders these indomitable girls set to work making
doughnuts and before nine o'clock in the morning they had made and were
serving two thousand doughnuts, with the accompanying hot chocolate.

The shells were whistling overhead, and the doughboys dropped into nearby
shell holes when they heard them coming, but the lassies paid no heed and
made doughnuts all the morning, under constant bombardment.

Bouconville was a little village between Raulecourt and the trenches. In
it there was left no civilian nor any whole house. Nothing but shot-down
houses, dugouts and camouflages, Y.M.C.A., Salvation Army and enlisted
men.

Dead Man's Curve was between Mandres and Beaumont. The enemy's eye was
always upon it and had its range.

Before the St. Mihiel drive one could go to Bouconville or Raulecourt only
at night. As soon as it was dark the supply outfits on the trucks would be
lined up awaiting the word from the Military Police to go.

Everyone had to travel a hundred yards apart. Only three men would be
allowed to go at once, so dangerous was the trip.

Out of the night would come a voice:

"Halt! Who goes there? Advance and give the countersign."

Every man was regarded as an enemy and spy until he was proven otherwise.
And the countersign had to be given mighty quick, too. So the men were
warned when they were sent out to be ready with the countersign and not to
hesitate, for some had been slow to respond and had been promptly shot.
The ride through the night in the dark without lights, without sound, over
rough, shell-plowed roads had plenty of excitement.

Bouconville for seven months could never be entered by day. The dugout
wall of the hut was filled with sandbags to keep it up. It was at
Bouconville, in the Salvation Army hut, that the raids on the enemy were
organized, the men were gathered together and instructed, and trench
knives given out; and here was where they weeded out any who were afraid
they might sneeze or cough and so give warning to the enemy.

Not until after the St. Mihiel drive when Montsec was behind the line
instead of in front did they dare enter Bouconville by day.

Passing through Mandres, it was necessary to go to Beaumont, around Dead
Man's Curve and then to Rambucourt, and proceed to Bouconville. Here the
Salvation Army had an outpost in a partially destroyed residence. The hut
consisted of the three ground floor rooms, the canteen being placed in the
middle. The sleeping quarters were in a dugout just at the rear of these
buildings. It was in the building adjoining this hut that three men were
killed one day by an exploding shell, and gas alarms were so frequent in
the night that it was very difficult for the Salvation Army people to
secure sufficient rest as on the sounding of every gas alarm it was
necessary to rise and put on the gas mask and keep it on until the
"alerte" was removed. This always occurred several times during the night.

[Illustration: Map]

It was just outside of Bouconville that the famous doughnut truck
experience occurred. The supply truck, driven by two young Salvation Army
men, one a mere boy, was making its rounds of the huts with supplies and
in order to reach Raulecourt, the boy who was driving decided to take the
shortest road, which, by the way, was under complete observation of the
Germans located at Montsec. The truck had already been shelled on its way
to Bouconville, several shells landing at the edge of the road within a
few feet of it. They had not noticed the first shell, for shells were a
somewhat common thing, and the old truck made so much noise that they had
not heard it coming, but when the second one fell so close one of the boys
said: "Say, they must be shooting at _us!_" as though that were
something unexpected.

They stepped on the accelerator and the truck shot forward madly and tore
into the town with shells breaking about it. Having escaped thus far they
were ready to take another chance on the short cut to Raulecourt.

They proceeded without mishaps for some distance. Just outside of
Bouconville was a large shell hole in the road and in trying to avoid this
the wheels of the truck slipped into the ditch, and the driver found he
was stuck. It was impossible to get out under his own power. While working
with the truck, the Germans began to shell him again. At first the two
boys paid little heed to it, but when more began to come they knew it was
time to leave. They threw themselves into a communicating trench, which
was really no more than a ditch, and wiggled their way up the bank until
they were able to drop into the main trenches, where they found safety in
a dugout.

The Germans meantime were shelling the truck furiously, the shells
dropping all around on either side, but not actually hitting it. This was
about two o'clock in the afternoon.

[Illustration: "It was just outside of Bouconville that the famous
doughnut truck experience occurred"---and this is the Salvation Army boy
who drove it]

[Illustration: Bullionville, promptly dubbed by the American boys
"Souptown"]

At Headquarters they were becoming anxious about the non-appearance of the
truck and started out in the touring car to locate it. Commencing at
Jouey-les-Cotes they went from there to Boucq and Raulecourt, which were
the last places the truck was to visit. Not hearing of it at Raulecourt,
the search was continued out to Bouconville, again, by a short road.
Montsec was in full view. There were fresh shell holes all along the road
since the night before. Things began to look serious.

A short distance ahead was an army truck, and even as they got abreast of
it a shell went over it exploding about twenty-five feet away, and one hit
the side of the road just behind them. It seemed wise to put on all speed.

But when they reached Bouconville and found that the truck they had passed
was the Salvation Army truck, they were unwilling to leave it to the
tender mercies of the enemy as everybody advised. That truck cost fifty-
five hundred dollars, and they did not want to lose it.

As soon as it was dark a detail of soldiers volunteered to go with the
Salvation Army officers to attempt to get it out, but the Germans heard
them and started their shelling furiously once more, so that they had to
retreat for a time; but later, they returned and worked all night trying
to jack it up and get a foundation that would permit of hauling it out.
Every little while all night the Germans shelled them. About half-past
four in the morning it grew light enough for the enemy to see, and the top
was taken off the truck so that it would not be so good a mark.

That day they went back to Headquarters and secured permission for an
ammunition truck to come down and give them a tow, as no driver was
permitted out on that road without a special permit from Headquarters. The
journey back was filled with perils from gas shells, especially around
Dead Man's Curve, but they escaped unhurt. That night they attached a tow
line to the front of the truck, started the engine quietly, and waited
until the assisting truck came along out of the darkness. They then
attached their line without stopping the other truck and with the aid of
its own power the old doughnut truck was jerked out of the ditch at last
and sent on its way. In spite of the many shells for which it had been a
target it was uninjured save that it needed a new top. The knowledge that
the truck was stuck in the ditch and was being shelled aroused great
excitement among all the troops in the Toul Sector and it was thereafter
an object of considerable interest. Newspaper correspondents telegraphed
reports of it around the world.

In most of the huts and dugouts Salvation Army workers subsist entirely
upon Army chow. At Bouconville the chow was frequently supplemented by
fresh fish. The dugout here was very close to the trenches, less than five
minutes' walk. Just behind the trenches to the left was a small lake. When
there was sufficient artillery fire to mask their attack, soldiers would
toss a hand grenade into this lake, thus stunning hundreds of fish which
would float to the surface, where they were gathered in by the sackful.
The Salvation Army dugout was never without its share of the spoils.

Before the soldiers began to think, as they do now, that being detailed to
the Salvation Army hut was a privilege, an Army officer sent one of his
soldiers, who seemed to be in danger of developing a yellow streak, to
sweep the hut and light the fires for the lassies. "You are only fit to
wash dishes, and hang on to a woman's skirts," he told the soldier in
informing him that he was detailed. That night the village was bombed. The
boy, who was really frightened, watched the two girls, being too proud to
run for shelter while they were so calm. He trembled and shook while they
sat quietly listening to the swish of falling bombs and the crash of anti-
aircraft guns. In spite of his fright, he was so ashamed of his fears that
he forced himself to stand in the street and watch the progress of the
raid. The next day he reported to his Captain that he had vanquished his
yellow streak and wanted a chance to demonstrate what he said. The
demonstration was ample. The example of these brave lassies had somehow
strengthened his spirit.

Back of Raulecourt the woods were full of heavy artillery. Raulecourt was
the first town back of the front lines. The men were relieved every eight
days and passed through here to other places to rest.

The military authorities sent word to the Salvation Army hut one day that
fifty Frenchmen would be going through from the trenches at five o'clock
in the morning who would have had no opportunity to get anything to eat.

The Salvation Army people went to work and baked up a lot of biscuits and
doughnuts and cakes, and got hot coffee ready. The Red Cross canteen was
better situated to serve the men and had more conveniences, so they took
the things over there, and the Red Cross supplied hot chocolate, and when
the men came they were well served. This is a sample of the spirit of
cooperation which prevailed. One Sunday night they were just starting the
evening service when word came from the military authorities that there
were a hundred men coming through the town who were hungry and ought to be
fed. They must be out of the town by nine-thirty as they were going over
the top that night. Could the Salvation Army do anything?

The woman officer who was in charge was perplexed. She had nothing cooked
ready to eat, the fire was out, her detailed helpers all gone, and she was
just beginning a meeting and hated to disappoint the men already gathered,
but she told the messenger that if she might have a couple of soldiers to
help her she would do what she could. The soldiers were supplied and the
fire was started. At ten minutes to nine the meeting was closed and the
earnest young preacher went to work making biscuits and chocolate with the
help of her two soldier boys. By ten o'clock all the men were fed and
gone. That is the way the Salvation Army does things. They never say "I
can't." They always CAN.

In Raulecourt there were several pro-Germans. The authorities allowed them
to stay there to save the town. The Salvation Army people were warned that
there were spies in the town and that they must on no account give out
information. Just before the St. Mihiel drive a special warning was given,
all civilians were ordered to leave town, and a Military Police knocked at
the door and informed the woman in the hut that she must be careful what
she said to anybody with the rank of a second lieutenant, as word had gone
out there was a spy dressed in the uniform of an American second
lieutenant.

That night at eleven o'clock the young woman was just about to retire when
there came a knock at the canteen door. She happened to be alone in the
building at the time and when she opened the door and found several
strange officers standing outside she was a little frightened. Nor did it
dispel her fears to have them begin to ask questions:

"Madam, how many troops are in this town? Where are they? Where can we get
any billets?"

To all these questions she replied that she could not tell or did not know
and advised them to get in touch with the town Major. The visitors grew
impatient. Then three more men knocked at the door, also in uniform, and
began to ask questions. When they could get no information one of them
exclaimed indignantly:

"Well, I should like to know what kind of a town this is, anyway? I tried
to find out something from a Military Police outside and he took me for a
SPY! Madam, we are from Field Hospital Number 12, and we want to find a
place to rest."

Then the frightened young woman became convinced that her visitors were
not spies; all the same, they were not going to leave her any the wiser
for any information she would give.

Several times men would come to the town and find no place to sleep. On
such occasions the Salvation Army hut was turned over to them and they
would sleep on the floor.

The St. Mihiel drive came on and the hut was turned over to the hospital.
The supplies were taken to a dugout and the canteen kept up there. Then
the military authorities insisted that the girls should leave town, but
the girls refused to go, begging, "Don't drive us away. We know we shall
be needed!" The Staff-Captain came down and took some of the girls away,
but left two in the canteen, and others in the hospital.

It rained for two weeks in Roulecourt. The soldiers slept in little dog
tents in the woods.

The meetings held the boys at the throne of God each night, they were the
power behind the doughnut, and the boys recognized it.

"One hesitated to ask them if they wanted prayers because we knew they
did," said one sweet woman back from the front, speaking about the time of
the St. Mihiel drive. "We couldn't say how many knelt at the altar because
they all knelt. Some of them would walk five miles to attend a meeting."

It poured torrents the night of the drive and nearly drowned out the
soldiers in their little tents.

They came into the hut to shake hands and say goodbye to the girls; to
leave their little trinklets and ask for prayers; and they had their
meeting as always before a drive.

But this was an even more solemn time than usual, for the boys were going
up to a point where the French had suffered the fearful loss of thirty
thousand men trying to hold Mt. Sec for fifteen minutes. They did not
expect to come back. They left sealed packages to be forwarded if they did
not return.

One boy came to one of the Salvation Army men Officers and said: "Pray for
me. I have given my heart to Jesus."

Another, a Sergeant, who had lived a hard life, came to the Salvation Army
Adjutant and said: "When I go back, if I ever go, I'm going to serve the
Lord."

After the meeting the girls closed the canteen and on the way to their
room they passed a little sort of shed or barn. The door was standing open
and a light streaming out, and there on a little straw pallet lay a
soldier boy rolled up in his blanket reading his Testament. The girls
breathed a prayer for the lad as they passed by and their hearts were
lifted up with gladness to think how many of the American boys, fully two-
thirds of them, carried their Testaments in the pockets over their hearts;
yes, and read them, too, quite openly.

Two young Captains came one night to say good-bye to the girls before
going up the line. The girls told them they would be praying for them and
the elder of the two, a doctor, said how much he appreciated that, and
then told them how he had promised his wife he would read a chapter in his
Testament every day, and how he had never failed to keep his promise since
he left home.

Then up spoke the other man:

"Well, I got converted one night on the road. The shells were falling
pretty thick and I thought I would never reach my destination and I just
promised the Lord if He would let me get safely there I would never fail
to read a chapter, and I never have failed yet!" This young man seemed to
think that--the whole plan of redemption was comprised in reading his
Bible, but if he kept his promise the Spirit would guide him.

On the way back to the hut one morning the girls picked marguerites and
forget-me-nots and put them in a vase on the table in the hut, making it
look like a little oasis in a desert, and no doubt, many a soldier looked
long at those blossoms who never thought he cared about flowers before.

Within thirty-six hours after the first gun was fired in the St. Mihiel
drive seven Salvation Army huts were established on the territory.

Three days before the drive opened twenty Salvation Army girls reached
Raulecourt, which was a little village half a mile from Montsec. They had
been travelling for hours and hours and were very weary.

The Salvation Army hut had been turned over to the hospital, so they found
another old building.

That night there was a gas alarm sounded and everybody came running out
with their gas masks on. The officer who had them in charge was much
worried about his lassies because some of them had a great deal of hair,
and he was afraid that the heavy coils at the back of their heads would
prevent the masks from fitting tightly and let in the deadly gas, but the
lassies were level-headed girls, and they came calmly out with their masks
on tight and their hair in long braids down their backs, much to the
relief of their officer.

It had been raining for days and the men were wet to the skin, and many of
them had no way to get dry except to roll up in their blankets and let the
heat of their body dry their clothes while they slept. It was a great
comfort to have the Salvation Army hut where they could go and get warm
and dry once in awhile.

The night of the St. Mihiel drive was the blackest night ever seen. It was
so dark that one could positively see nothing a foot ahead of him. The
Salvation Army lassies stood in the door of the canteen and listened. All
day long the heavy artillery had been going by, and now that night had
come there was a sound of feet, tramping, tramping, thousands of feet,
through the mud and slush as the soldiers went to the front. In groups
they were singing softly as they went by. The first bunch were singing
"Mother Machree."

  There's a spot in me heart that no colleen may own,
  There's a depth in me soul never sounded or known;
  There's a place in me memory, me life, that you fill,
  No other can take it, no one ever will;
  Sure, I love the dear silver that shines in your hair,
  And the brow that's all furrowed and wrinkled with care.
  I kiss the dear fingers, so toil-worn for me;
    O, God bless you and keep you!
      Mother Machree!

The simple pathos of the voices, many of them tramping forward to their
death, and thinking of mother, brought the tears to the eyes of the girls
who had been mothers and sisters, as well as they could, to these boys
during the days of their waiting.

Then the song would die slowly away and another group would come by
singing: "Tell mother I'll be there!" Always the thought of mother. A
little interval and the jolly swing of "Pack up your troubles in your old
kit bag and smile, smile, smile!" came floating by, and then sweetly,
solemnly, through the chill of the darkness, with a thrill in the words,
came another group of voices:

  Abide with me; fast falls the eventide,
  The darkness deepens; Lord, with me abide!'

There had been rumors that Montsec was mined and that as soon as a foot
was set upon it it would blow up.

The girls went and lay down on their cots and tried to sleep, praying in
their hearts for the boys who had gone forth to fight. But they could not
sleep. It was as though they had all the burden of all the mothers and
wives and sisters of those boys upon them, as they lay there, the only
women within miles, the only women so close to the lines.

About half-past one a big naval gun went off. It was as though all the
noises of the earth were let loose about them. They could lie still no
longer. They got up, put on their rain-coats, rubber boots, steel helmets,
took their gas masks and went out in the fields where they could see. Soon
the barrage was started. Darkness took on a rosy hue from shells bursting.
First a shell fell on Montsec. Then one landed in the ammunition dump just
back of it and blew it up, making it look like a huge crater of a volcano.
It seemed as if the universe were on fire. The noise was terrific. The
whole heavens were lit up from end to end. The beauty and the horror of it
were indescribable.

At five o'clock they went sadly back to the hut.

The hospital tents had been put up in the dark and now stood ready for the
wounded who were expected momentarily. The girls took off their rain-coats
and reported for duty. It was expected there would be many wounded. The
minutes passed and still no wounded arrived. Day broke and only a few
wounded men had been brought in. It was reported that the roads were so
bad that the ambulances were slow in getting there. With sad hearts the
workers waited, but the hours passed and still only a straggling few
arrived, and most of those were merely sick from explosives. There were
almost no wounded! Only ninety in all.

Then at last there came one bearing a message. There _were_ no
wounded! The Germans had been taken so by surprise, the victory had been
so complete at that point, that the boys had simply leaped over all
barriers and gone on to pursue the enemy. Quickly packing up seven outfits
a little company of workers started after their divisions on trucks over
ground that twenty-four hours before had been occupied by the Germans, on
roads that were checkered with many shell holes which American road makers
were busily filling up and bridging as they passed.

One of the Salvation Army truck drivers asked a negro road mender what he
thought of his job. He looked up with a pearly smile and a gleam of his
eyes and replied: "Boss, I'se doin' mah best to make de world safe foh
Democrats!"

They had to stop frequently to remove the bodies of dead horses from the
way so recently had that place been shelled. They passed through grim
skeletons of villages shattered and torn by shell fire; between tangles of
rusty barbed wire that marked the front line trenches. Then on into
territory that had long been held by the Huns. More than half of the
villages they passed were partially burned by the retreating enemy. All
along the way the pitiful villagers, free at last, came out to greet them
with shouts of welcome, calling "Bonnes Americaines! Bonnes Americaines!"
Some flung their arms about the Salvation Army lassies in their joy. Some
of the villagers had not even known that the Americans were in the war
until they saw them.

In the village of Nonsard a little way beyond Mt. Sec they found a
building that twenty-four hours before had been a German canteen. Above
the entrance was the sign "KAMERAD, tritt' ein."

The Salvation Army people stepped in and took possession, finding
everything ready for their use. They even found a lard can full of lard
and after a chemist had analyzed it to make sure it was not poisoned they
fried doughnuts with it. In one wall was a great shell hole, and the
village was still under shell fire as they unloaded their truck and got to
work. One lassie set the water to heat for hot chocolate, while another
requisitioned a soldier to knock the head off a barrel of flour and was
soon up to her elbows mixing the dough for doughnuts. Before the first
doughnut was out of the hot fat several hundred soldiers were waiting in
long, patient, ever-growing lines for free doughnuts and chocolate. These
things were always served free after the men had been over the top.

The lassies had had no sleep for thirty-six hours, but they never thought
of stopping until everybody was served. In that one day their three tons
of supplies entirely gave out.

The Red Cross was there with their rolling kitchen. They had plenty of
bread but nothing to put on it. The Salvation Army had no stove on which
to cook anything, but they had quantities of jam and potted meats. They
turned over ten cases of jam, some of the cases containing as many as four
hundred small jars, to the Red Cross, who served it on hot biscuits. Some
one put up a sign: "THIS JAM FURNISHED BY THE SALVATION ARMY!" and the
soldiers passed the word along the line: "The finest sandwich in the
world, Red Cross and Salvation Army!" The first day two Salvation Army
girls served more than ten thousand soldiers in their canteen. They did
not even stop to eat. The Red Cross brought them over hot chocolate as
they worked.

Evening brought enemy airplanes, but the lassies did not stop for that and
soon their own aerial forces drove the enemy back.

That night the girls slept in a dirty German dugout, and they did not dare
to clean up the place, or even so much as to move any of the _dbris_
of papers and old tin and pasteboard cracker boxes, or cans that were
strewn around the place until the engineer experts came to examine things,
lest it might be mined and everything be blown up. The girls set up their
cots in the clearest place they could find, and went to sleep. One of the
women, however, who had just arrived, had lost her cot, and being very
weary crawled into a sort of berth dug by the Germans in the wall, where
some German had slept. She found out from bitter experience what cooties
are like.

The next morning they were hard at work again as early as seven o'clock.
Two long lines of soldiers were already patiently waiting to be served.
The girls wondered whether they might not have been there all night. This
continued all day long.

"We had to keep on a perpetual grin," said one of the lassies, "so that
each soldier would think he had a smile all his own. We always gave
everything with a smile." Yet they were not smiles of coquetry. One had
but to see the beautiful earnest faces of those girls to know that nothing
unholy or selfish entered into their service. It was more like the smile
that an angel might give.

Here is one of the many popular songs that have been written on the
subject which shows how the soldiers felt:

  SALVATION LASSIE OF MINE.

  "They say it's in Heaven that all angels dwell,
    But I've come to learn they're on earth just as well;
  And how would I know that the like could be so,
    If I hadn't found one down here below?

  CHORUS.

  A sweet little Angel that went o'er the sea,
    With the emblem of God in her hand;
  A wonderful Angel who brought there to me
    The sweet of a war-furrowed land.
  The crown on her head was a ribbon of red,
    A symbol of all that's divine;
  Though she called each a brother she's more like a mother,
    Salvation Lassie of Mine.

  Perhaps in the future I'll meet her again,
    In that world where no one knows sorrow or pain;
  And when that time comes and the last word is said,
    Then place on my bosom her band of red."

                        _By "Jack" Caddigan and "Chick" Stoy._

That day a shell fell on the dugout where they had slept the night before,
and a little later one dropped next door to the canteen; another took
seven men from the signal corps right in the street near by, and the girls
were ordered out of the village because it was no longer safe for them.

One of the boys had been up on a pole putting up wires for the signal
corps. These boys often had to work as now under shell fire in daytime
because it was necessary to have telephone connections complete at once. A
shell struck him as he worked and he fell in front of the canteen. They
had just carried him away to the ambulance when his chum and comrade came
running up. A pool of blood lay on the floor in front of the canteen, and
he stood and gazed with anguish in his face. Suddenly he stooped and
patted the blood tenderly murmuring, "My Buddy! My Buddy!" Then like a
flash he was off, up the pole where his comrade had been killed to finish
his work. That is the kind of brave boys these girls were serving.




IX.

The Argonne Drive



That night they slept in the woods on litters, and the next day they went
on farther into the woods, twelve kilometres beyond what had been German
front.

Here they found a whole little village of German dugouts in the form of
log cabin bungalows in the woods. It was a beautifully laid out little
village, each bungalow complete, with running water and electric lights
and all conveniences. There were a dance hall, a billiard room, and
several pianos in the woods. There were also fine vegetable gardens and
rabbit hutches full of rabbits, for the Germans had been obliged to leave
too hastily to take anything with them.

The boys were hungry, some of them half starved for something different
from the hard fare they could take with them over the top, and they made
rabbit stews and cooked the vegetables and had a fine time.

The girls up at the front had no time for making doughnuts, so the girls
back of the lines made 8000 doughnuts and sent them up by trucks for
distribution. They also distributed oranges to the soldiers.

News came to the girls after they had been for a week in Nonsard that they
were to make a long move.

Back to Verdun they went and stopped just long enough to look at the city.
They were much impressed with St. Margaret's school for young ladies, and
a wonderful old cathedral standing on the hill with a wall surrounding it.
Just the face of the building was left, all the rest shot away, and
through the concrete walls were holes, with guns bristling from every one.

[Illustration: The girls who came down to help in the St. Mihiel drive]

[Illustration: Here they found a whole little village of German dugouts]

They did not linger long for duty called them forward on their journey. At
dusk they stopped in a little village, bought some stuff, and asked a
French woman to cook it for them. They inquired for a place in which to
wash and were given a bar of soap and directed to the village pump up the
street. After supper they went on their way to Benoitvaux. Here they found
difficulty in getting quarters, but at last an old French woman agreed to
let them sleep in her kitchen and for a couple of days they were quartered
with her. The word went forth that there were two American girls there and
people were most curious to see them. One afternoon two French soldiers
came to the kitchen to visit them. It was raining, as usual, and the girls
had stayed in because there was really nothing to call them out. The
soldiers sat for some time talking. They had heard that America was a wild
place with _beaucoup_ Indians who wore scalps in their belts, and
they wanted to know if the girls were not afraid. It was a bit difficult
conversing, but the girls got out their French dictionary and managed to
convey a little idea of the true America to the strangers. At last one of
the soldiers in quite a matter of fact tone informed one of the girls that
he was pleased with her and loved her very much. This put a hasty close to
the conversation, the lassie informing him with much dignity that men did
not talk in that way to girls they had just met in America and that she
did not like it. Whereupon the girls withdrew to the other end of the
kitchen and turned their backs on their callers, busying themselves with
some reading, and the crest-fallen gallants presently left.

They only had a canteen here one day when they were called to go on to
Neuvilly.

When the offensive was extended to the Argonne the Salvation Army followed
along, keeping in touch with the troops so that they felt that the
Salvation Army was ever with them, sharing their hardships and dangers,
and always ready to serve them.

Just before a drive, close to the front, there are always blockades of
trucks going either way.

The Salvation Army truck filled with the workers on their way to Neuvilly
one dark night was caught in such a blockade. They crawled along making
only about a mile an hour and stopping every few minutes until there was a
chance to go on again. At last the wait grew longer and longer, the mud
grew deeper, and the truck was having such a hard time that the little
company of travellers decided to abandon it to the side of the road till
morning and get out and walk to Neuvilly. There was a field hospital there
and they felt sure they could be of use; and anyway, it was better than
sitting in the truck all night. They were then about eight kilometers from
the front. So they all got off and walked. But when they reached the
place, found the hospital, and essayed to go in, the mud was so deep that
they were stuck and unable to move forward. Some soldiers had to rescue
them and carry them to the hospital on litters.

Their help was accepted gladly, and they went to work at once. There were
many shell-shocked boys coming in who needed soothing and comforting, and
a woman's hand so near the front was gratefully appreciated.

When at last there was a lull in the stream of wounded men the girls went
to find a place to sleep for a little while. It was early morning, and sad
sights met their eyes as they hurried down what had once been a pleasant
village street. Destruction and desolation everywhere. The house that had
been selected for a Salvation Army canteen was nearly all gone. One end
was comparatively intact, with the floor still remaining, and this was to
be for the canteen. The rest of the building was a series of shell holes
surrounding a cellar from which the floor had been shot away.

The women reconnoitred and finally decided to unfold their cots and try to
get a wink of sleep down in that cellar. It did not take them long to get
settled. The cots were brought down and placed quickly among the fallen
rafters, stone and tiling. Part of the walls that were standing leaned in
at a perilous slant, threatening to fall at the slightest wind, but the
lassies took off their shoes, rolled up in their blankets, and were at
once oblivious to all about them, for they had been travelling all the day
before and had worked hard all night.

One hour later, still early in the morning, they were awakened by the
arrival of the truck and the thumping of boxes, tables and supplies as the
Salvation Army truck drivers unloaded and set up the paraphernalia of the
canteen. The girls opened their eyes and looked about them, and there all
around the building were American soldiers, a head in every shell hole,
watching them sleep. There was something thrilling in the silent audience
looking down with holy eyes--yes, I said holy eyes!--for whatever the
American soldier may be in his daily life he had nothing in his eyes but
holy reverence for these women of God who were working night and day for
him. There was something touching, too, in their attitude, for perhaps
each one was thinking of his mother or sister at home as he looked down on
these weary girls, rolled up in the brown blankets, with their neat little
brown shoes in couples under their cots, nothing visible above the
blankets but their pretty rumpled brown hair.

The women did not waste much more time in sleeping. They arose at once and
got busy. There were five tables in the canteen above and already from
each one there stretched a long line of men waiting silently, patiently
for the time to arrive when there would be something good to eat. The
girls had no more sleep that day, and there simply was no seclusion to be
had anywhere. Everything was shell-riddled.

When night came on the question of beds arose again. The cellar seemed
hardly possible, and the military officers considered the question.

Across the road from the most ruined end of the canteen building stood an
old church. All of its north wall was gone save a supporting column in the
middle, all the north roof gone. There were holes in all the other walls,
and all the windows were gone. The floor was covered with _dbris_
and wreckage. It had been used all day for an evacuation hospital.

Just over the altar was a wonderful picture of the Christ ascending to
heaven. It was still uninjured save for a shot through the heart.

The military officer stood on the steps of this ruined church, and,
looking around in perplexity, remarked:

"Well, I guess this is the wholest place in town." Then stepping inside he
glanced about and pointed:

"And this is the most secluded spot here!"

The seclusion was a pillar! But the girls were glad to get even that for
there was no other place, and they were very weary. So they set up their
little cots, and prepared to roll themselves in their blankets for a well-
earned rest.

The boys had built a small bonfire on the stone floor against a piece of
one wall that was still standing, and now they sent a deputation to know
if the girls would bring their guitars over and have a little music. The
boys, of course, had no idea that the girls had not slept for more than
twenty-four hours, and the girls never told them. They never even cast one
wistful glance toward their waiting cots, but smilingly assented, and went
and got their instruments.

[Illustration: The wrecked house in Neuvilly where the lassies went to
sleep in the cellar and woke up to find the soldiers watching]

[Illustration: The wrecked church in Neuvilly where the memorable meeting
was held]

Beneath the picture of the Christ, in front of the altar a few men were at
work in an improvised office with four candles burning around them. In the
rear of the church Lt.-Col. Frederick R. Fitzpatrick of the One Hundred
and Tenth Ammunition Train had his office, and there another candle was
burning. Some wounded men lay on stretchers in the shadowed northwest
corner, and around the little fire the five Salvation Army lassies sat
among two hundred soldiers. They sang at first the popular songs that
everybody knew: "The Long, Long Trail," "Keep the Home Fires Burning,"
"Pack Up Your Troubles in Your Old Kit Bag and Smile! Smile! Smile!" and
"Keep Your Head Down, Fritzie Boy!"

By and by some one called for a hymn, and then other hymns followed:
"Jesus Lover of My Soul," "When the Roll Is Called Up Yonder," and, as
always, the old favorite, "Tell Mother I'll Be There!"

They sang for at least an hour and a half, and then they did not want to
stop. Oh, but it was a great sound that rolled through the old broken
walls of the church and floated out into the night! One of the lassies
said she would not change crowds with the biggest choir in New York.

Then they asked the girls to sing and the room was very still as two sweet
voices thrilled out in a tender melody, speaking every word distinctly:

  Beautiful Jesus, Bright Star of earth!
  Loving and tender from moment of birth,
  Beautiful Jesus, though lowly Thy lot,
  Born in a manger, so rude was Thy cot!

  Beautiful Jesus, gentle and mild,
  Light for the sinner in ways dark and wild,
  Beautiful Jesus, O save such just now,
  As at Thy feet they in penitence bow!

  Beautiful Christ! Beautiful Christ!
  Fairest of thousands and Pearl of great price!
  Beautiful Christ! Beautiful Christ!
  Gladly we welcome Thee, Beautiful Christ!

Before they had finished many eyes had turned instinctively toward the
picture in the weirdly flickering light.

Then the young Captain-lassie asked her sister to read the Ninety-first
Psalm, "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide
under the shadow of the Almighty," and she told them that was a promise
for those who trusted in God, and she wished they would think about it
while they were going to sleep.

"This evening has made me think so much of home," she said thoughtfully,
drooping her lashes and then raising them with a sweeping glance that
included the whole group, while the firelight flickered up and lit her
lovely serious face, and touched her hair with lights of gold, "I suppose
it has made every one else feel that way," she went on; "I mean especially
the evenings at home when the family gathered in the parlor, with one at
the piano and brothers with their horns, and the rest with some kind of
instrument, and we had a good 'sing;' and afterward father took the Bible
and read the evening chapter, and then we had family prayers and kissed
Mamma and Papa good night and went to bed. I shouldn't wonder if many of
you used to have homes like that?"

The lassie raised her eyes again and looked on them. Many of the men
nodded. It was beautiful to see the look that came into their faces at
these recollections.

"And you used to have family prayers, too, didn't you?" she asked eagerly.

They nodded once more but some of them turned their faces away from the
light quickly and brushed the back of their hands across their eyes.

"To-night has been a family gathering," she went on, "We girls are little
sisters to all you big brothers, and we have had a delightful time with
just the family, and the evening chapter has been read, and now I think it
would not be complete if we did not have the family prayers before we
separate and go to sleep."

Down went the heads in response, with reverent mien, and the place was
very still while the lassie prayed. Afterward the boys joined their gruff
voices, husky now with emotion, into the universal prayer with which she
closed: "Our Father which are in heaven----"

They were all sorts and conditions of men gathered around the little fire
in that old shell-torn church in Neuvilly that night. To quote from a
letter written by a military officer, Lt-Col. Frederick R. Fitzpatrick, to
his wife:

 "There was the lad who was willing but not strong enough for field work,
who was in the rear with the office; the walking wounded who had stopped
for something to eat; the big, strong mule skinner who could throw a mule
down or lift a case of ammunition, who was rough in appearance and speech
and who would deny that the moisture in his eye was anything but the
effects of the cold. There were the men who had been facing death a
thousand times an hour for the last three days, who had not had a wash or
a chance to take off their shoes and had been lying in mud in shell holes
--men who looked as though they were chilled through and through; men on
their way to the front, well knowing all the hardships and dangers which
were ahead of them, but who were worried only about the delay in the
traffic; doctors who had been working for three days without rest; men off
ammunition and ration trucks, who had been at the wheel so long that they
had forgotten whether it was three or four days and nights; wounded on
their stretchers enjoying a smoke. And as I stepped in the door there were
the feminine voices singing the good old tunes we all know so well, and
not a sound in the church but as an accompaniment the distant booming of
big guns, the rattle of small arms, the whirl of air craft, the passing of
the ever-present column of trucks with rations and ammunition going up,
and the wounded coming back; the shouted directions of the traffic police,
the sound of the ammunition dump just outside the door and the rattle of
the kitchens which surround the church, and which are working twenty-four
hours a day.

There was the crowd of men, each uncovered, giving absolute undivided
attention to the good, brave girls who were not making a meeting of it; it
was just a meeting which grew--men who in their minds were back with
mother and sister. The girls sang the good old songs, and then one of them
offered a short prayer, in which all the men joined in spirit, and as I
tip-toed out of the church it seemed to me that the four candles at the
altar did not give all the light that was shown on the picture of Christ
our Saviour. Every man in the building that night was in the very presence
of God. It was not a religious meeting; it was a meeting full of religion.
And it was a picture that will ever stand fresh in my memory and which
will be an inspiration in time of doubt. There was nothing there but the
real things, absolutely no sham of any kind. Oh, it was wonderful! I hope
you can get just a little idea of what it was. I wish you would keep this
letter. I want to be able to read it in future years."

In what remained of another village not far distant from Neuvilly, the
lassies had a tent erected. The rain was endless--a driving drizzle which
quickly soaked through everything but the staunchest raincoats in a very
few moments. The ground was so thickly covered by shell craters that they
could find no clear space wide enough for the tent. It so happened that
almost in the centre of the tent there was a big shell crater. In this the
girls lighted a fire. All through the night, and through nights to follow,
wounded men limping back through the rain and mud to the dressing stations
came in to warm themselves around the fire in the shell hole, and to drink
of the coffee prepared by the girls. As they sat around the blazing wood,
the fire cast strange shadows on the bleached brown canvas of the tent. In
spite of their wounds, they were very cheerful,  singing as lightly as
though they were safe at home.

Everybody had worked hard at Neuvilly, but they felt they must get to
their own outfit as soon as possible at the Field Hospital up in Cheppy
where the wounded were coming in droves and the boys were pouring in from
the front half-starved, having been fighting all night with nothing to eat
except reserve rations. Some had been longer with only such rations as
they took from their dead comrades. The need was most urgent, but the
puzzle was how to get there. The roads had been shelled and ploughed by
explosives until there was no possible semblance of a way, and there were
no conveyances to be had. The Zone Major had gone back for supplies,
telling the girls to get the first conveyance possible going up the road.
That was enough for the girls. "We've _got_ to get there" they said,
and when they said that one knew they would. They searched diligently and
at last found a way. One girl rode on a reel cart, one on a mule team and
one went with an old wagon. They went over roads that had to be made ahead
of them by the engineers, and late in the night, bruised and sore from
head to foot, they arrived at their destination.

The next morning they reported at the hospital for work and the Major in
charge said: "I never was so glad to see anybody in my life!"

They went straight to work and served coffee and sandwiches to the poor
half-starved men. The Red Cross men were there, also, with sandwiches, hot
chocolate and candy.

The wounded men continued to pour in, later to be evacuated to the base
hospital; they kept coming and coming, a thousand men where two hundred
had been expected. There was plenty to be done. The girls were put in
charge of different wards. They were under shell fire continually, but
they were too busy to think of that as they hurried about ministering to
the brave soldiers, who gave never a groan from their white lips no matter
what they suffered.

The girls worked about eighteen hours a day, and slept from about one or
two at night to five or six in the morning. The hospital was in front of
the artillery and every shell that went over to Germany passed over their
heads. When they had been there five days under continual shell fire from
the enemy the General gave orders that they _must_ leave, that it was
no fit place for women so near to the front.

When the Salvation Army Zone Major brought this order to the girls
rebellion shone in their eyes and they declared they would not leave! They
knew they were needed there, and there they would stay! The Zone Major
surveyed them with intense satisfaction. He turned on his heel and went
back to the General:

"General," he said, with a twinkle, "my girls say they won't go."

The General's face softened, and the twinkle flashed across to his eyes,
with something like a tear behind its fire. Somehow he didn't look like a
Commanding Officer who had just been defied. A wonderful light broke over
his face and he said:

"Well, if the Salvation Army wants to stay let them stay!" And so they
stayed.

It was in a German-dug cave that they had their headquarters, cut out of
the side of a hill and opening into the hospital yard. It was a work of
art, that cave. There was a passage-way a hundred feet long with avenues
each side and places for cots, room enough to accommodate a hundred men.

The German airplanes came in droves. When the bugle sounded every one must
get under cover. There must be nobody in sight for the Germans were out to
get individuals, and even one person was not too insignificant for them to
waste their ammunition upon. They had a mistaken idea, perhaps, that this
sort of thing destroyed our morale. The tents, of course, were no
protection against shells and bombs, and presently the Boche began to
shell the town in good earnest, especially at night. Gas alarms, also,
would sound out in the middle of the night and everybody would have to
rush out and put on their gas masks. They would not last long at a time,
of course, but it broke up any rest that might have been had, and it was
only too evident that the enemy was trying to get the range on the
hospital.

One morning, standing by the window making cocoa for the boys, one of the
lassies saw an eight-inch shell land between the hospital tents, ten feet
in front of the window, and only five feet from the door of the place
where the severely wounded were lying. These shells always kill at two
hundred feet. All that saved them was that the shell buried itself deep in
the soft earth and was a dud.

The shells were coming every twenty minutes and there was no time to lose
for now the enemy had their range. At once all hands got busy and began to
evacuate the wounded men into the Salvation Army cave. The cave would
accommodate seventy men, but they managed to get a hundred men inside,
most of them on litters. They were all safe and the girls heard the
whistle of the next shell and made haste toward safety themselves. But
someone had carelessly dropped a whole outfit of blankets and things
across the passageway of the dugout and the first woman to enter fell
across it, shutting out the other two. Before anything could be done the
next shell struck the doorway, partly burying the fallen young woman.
Inside the dugout rocks came down on some of the men on litters, and
anxious hands extricated the lassie from the _dbris_ that had fallen
upon her, and lifted her tenderly. She was pretty badly bruised and lamed,
besides being wounded on her leg, but the brave young woman would not
claim her wound, nor let it become known to the military authorities lest
they would forbid the girls to stay at the front any longer. So for three
weeks she patiently limped about and worked with the rest, quietly bearing
her pain, and would not go to the hospital. One lassie outside was struck
on the helmet by a piece of falling rock. If she had not had on her helmet
she would have been killed.

The shelling continued for six hours.

The hospital was all the time filled with wounded men and there was plenty
to be done twenty-four hours out of every day. The women moved about among
the men as if they were their own brothers.

A poor shell-shocked boy lay on his cot talking wildly in delirium, living
over the battle again, charging his men, ordering them to advance.

"Company H. Advance! See that hill over there? It's full of Germans, but
_we've got to take it_!"

Then he turned over and began to sob and cry, "Oh God! Oh God!"

A lassie went to him and soothed him, talking to him gently about home,
asking him questions about his mother, until he grew calm and began to
answer her, and rested back quite rationally. The stretcher-bearers came
to take him to another hospital, and he started up, put out his hand and
cried: "Oh, nurse! I've got to get back to my men! _I'm the only one
left_!"

Thus the heart-breaking scenes were multiplied.

One boy came back to the hospital in the Argonne badly wounded. He called
the lassie to him one day as she passed through the ward, and motioned her
to lean down so he could talk to her. He said he knew he was hard hit and
he wanted to tell her something.

"I was wounded, lying on the ground over there in No Man's Land," he went
on. "It was all dark and I was waiting for someone to come along and help
me. I thought it was all up with me and while I was lying there I felt
something. I can't explain it, but I knew it was there and I saw my mother
and I prayed. Then my Buddy came along and I asked him if he could baptize
me. He said he wasn't very good himself but he guessed the heavenly Father
would understand. So he stooped down and got some muddy water out of a
shell hole close by and put it on my forehead, and prayed; and now I know
it's all right. I wanted you to know."

Often the boys, just before they went over the top, would come to these
girls and say:

"We're going up there, now. You pray for us, won't you?"

One day some boys came to the hut when there were not many about and asked
the girls if they might talk with them. These boys were going over the top
that night.

"We fellows want to ask you something," they said. "Some of the chaplains
have been telling us that if we go over there and die for liberty that
it'll be all right with us afterward. But we don't believe that dope and
we want to know the truth. Do you mean to tell me that if a man has lived
like the devil he's going to be saved just because he got killed fighting?
Why, some of us fellows didn't even go of our own accord. We were drafted.
And do you mean to tell me that counts just the same? We want to know the
truth!"

And then the girls had their opportunity to point the way to Jesus and
speak of repentance, salvation from sin, and faith in the Saviour of the
world.

A lassie was stooping over one young boy lying on a cot, washing his face
and trying to make him more comfortable, and she noticed a hole in his
breast pocket. Stooping closer she examined it and found it was a piece of
high explosive shell that had gone through the cloth of his pocket and was
embedded in his Testament, which he, like many of the boys, always kept in
his breast pocket.

Another boy lay on a cot biting his lips to bear the agony of pain, and
she asked him what was the matter, was the wound in his leg so bad? He
nodded without opening his eyes. She went to ask the doctor if the boy
couldn't have some morphine to dull the pain. The Sergeant in charge came
over and looked at him, examined the bandage on the boy's leg and then
exclaimed: "Who bandaged this leg?"

"I did" said the boy weakly, "I did the best I could."

The poor fellow had bandaged his own leg and then walked to the hospital.
The bandage had looked all right and no one had examined it until then,
but the Sergeant found that it was so tight that it had stopped the
circulation. He took off the bandage and made him comfortable, and the
agony left him. In a little while the Salvation Army lassie passed that
way again and found the boy with a little book open, reading.

"What is it?" she asked, looking at the book.

"My Testament," he answered with a smile.

"Are you a Christian?"

"Oh, yes," he said with another smile that meant volumes.

It grew dark in the tent for they dared not have lights on account of the
enemy always watching, but stooping near a little later she could see that
his lips were murmuring in prayer. There was an angelic smile on his
white, dead face in the morning when they came to take him away.

There was a funeral every day in that place. A hundred boys were buried
that week. Always the girls sang at the graves, and prayed. There would be
just the grave digger, a few people, and some of the boys. Off to one side
the Germans were buried. When the simple services over our own dead were
complete one of the girls would say: "Now, friends, let us go and say a
prayer beside our enemy's graves. They are some mother's boys, and some
woman is waiting for them to come home!"

And then the prayers would be said once more, and another song sung.

Those were solemn, sorrowful times, death and destruction on every side.
The fighting was everywhere. United States anti-aircraft guns firing at
German planes; Germans firing at us; air fights in the sky above.

And in the midst of it all the boys had meetings every night on log piles
out in the open. These meetings would begin with popular songs, but the
boys would soon ask for the hymns and the meetings would work themselves
out without any apparent leading up to it. The boys wanted it. They wanted
to hear about religious things. They hungered for it. So they were held at
the throne of God each night by the wonderful men and girls who had
learned to know human hearts, and had attained such skill in leading them
to the Christ for whom they lived.

It was not alone the doughnut that bound the hearts of the boys to the
Salvation Army in France, it was what was behind the doughnut; and here,
in these wonderful God-led meetings they found the secret of it all. Many
of them came and told the girls they did not believe in the so-called
"trench religion" and wanted to know the truth from them. And those girls
told them the way of eternal life in a simple, beautiful way, not mincing
matters, nor ignoring their sins and unworthiness, but pointing the way to
the Christ who died to save them from sin, and who even now was waiting in
silent Presence to offer them Himself. Great numbers of the men accepted
Christ, and pledged themselves to live or die for Him whatever came to
them.

How close the Salvation Army people had grown to the hearts and lives of
the men was shown by the fact that when they came back from the fight they
would always come to them as if they had come to report at home:

"We've escaped!" they would say. "We don't know how it is, but we think
it's because you girls were praying for us, and the folks at home were
praying, too!"

There were three cardinal principles which were deemed necessary to
success in this work. The first and most important depended upon winning
the confidence of the boys. This was a prime requisite in any work with
the boys, especially by a religious organization.

_The first quality_ looked for in a person professing religion is
always consistency. It was felt that if the boys saw that the Salvation
Army was consistent, that it stood only for those things in France which
it was known to stand for in the United States, that the first step would
be established in winning the confidence of the boy. It was therefore
determined that the Salvation Army would not, under any circumstances,
compromise, and that it should stand out in its religious work and adhere
to its teachings as firmly and as vigorously as it was known to do at
home.

A stand upon the tobacco question was, therefore, highly important. Other
organizations were encouraging the use of tobacco but those who had come
in contact with the Salvation Army at home knew that it had always
discouraged its use, and although the officers had to go against the
judgment of many high military authorities who thought they should handle
it, they decided that the Salvation Army would not handle tobacco and that
no one wearing its uniform should use it. The consistency of the Salvation
Army and the careful conduct of its workers won the esteem of the boys.

_The second requisite_ was that the Salvation Army should be willing
to share their hardships. To accomplish this, it was made a rule that
Salvation Army workers should not mess with the officers but should draw
their rations at the soldiers' mess, also that they should not associate
with the officers more than was absolutely necessary and that in the huts.
It was neither possible nor desirable that officers should be kept out of
the huts, but as far as possible soldiers were made to feel that the
Salvation Army was in France to serve them and not for its own pleasure or
convenience.

_The third requisite_ was that the Salvation Army should be willing
to share their dangers and this was proved to them when they went to the
trenches--the Salvation Army moved to the trenches with them and
established huts and outposts as close to the front line as was permitted.



X.

The Armistice



After the Armistice was signed, on November 11th, it was a great question
what disposition would be made of the troops. It was concluded that they
would be sent home as rapidly as possible and that the three ports--Brest,
St. Nazaire and Bordeaux--would be used for that purpose. Immediately
arrangements were made for the opening of Salvation Army work at the base
ports with a view to letting the boys have a last sight of the Salvation
Army as they left the shores of France. The Salvation Army had served them
in the training area and at the front and were still serving them as they
left the shores of the old world and it would meet them again when they
arrived on the shores of the home-land. In this way the contact of the
Salvation Army would be continuous, so that when they returned, it would
be able to reach their hearts and affect their lives with the Gospel of
Christ.

The problem of buildings was, of course, the first one and a very
difficult one. To secure buildings of adequate size, which could be
constructed in a short space of time, was almost out of the question, but
it occurred to the officers that the aviation section would be
demobilizing and that they had brought over portable steel buildings, for
use as hangars. The matter was taken up at once with the military
authorities and twenty of these steel buildings were secured--each of them
sixty-six feet wide by one hundred feet long. It was planned to place
eight of them at Bordeaux, six at St. Nazaire and six at Brest. By placing
two of them end to end it was possible to secure one auditorium sixty-six
feet wide by two hundred feet long--capable of seating three thousand men.
Adjoining that could be another building sixty-six feet by one hundred
feet, to be used for canteen and rest room.

It was planned to proceed with a religious campaign at these Base Ports,
holding Salvation meetings in these extensive departments.

When the Army of Occupation was started for Germany, two Salvation Army
trucks were assigned to go along with the Army. Whenever the Army of
Occupation stopped for a space of two or three days, places were secured
where doughnuts could be fried, pies made, and at all times hot coffee and
chocolate were available for the men.

When the American soldiers marched through the villages of Alsace-Lorraine
the Salvationists marched with them. At Esch and Luxemburg they were in
all the rejoicing and triumph of the parade, bringing succor and comfort
wherever they could find an opportunity.

When the men arrived at Coblenz the Salvation Army was there before them,
and on their crossing the Rhine, arrangements had been made for the
location of the Salvation Army work at the principal points in the Rhine-
head. They are now conducting Salvation Army operations with the Army of
Occupation.

One of the occasions when President Wilson clapped for the Salvation Army
was at the inauguration of the Soldiers' Association in Paris. The Y had
invited all the other organizations to be present. The meeting was held in
the Palais de Glace, which seats about ten thousand people.

President and Mrs. Wilson were present, accompanied by many prominent
American officials. Representatives of the various War Work Organizations
spoke.

The Salvationist who had been selected to represent the Army at this
meeting had been in the United States Navy for twelve years and was a
chaplain.

When he was called upon to speak the boys with one accord as if by
preconcerted action arose to their feet and gave him an ovation. Of
course, it was not given to the man but to the uniform.

A soldier of the Rainbow Division sitting next to one of the Salvation
Army workers over there, kept telling him what the boys thought of the
Salvation Army, and when the cheering began he poked the Salvationist in
the ribs and whispered joyously:

"I told you! I told you! We've just been waiting for eight months to pull
this off! Now, you see!"

The speaker when given opportunity did not attempt to make a great speech.
He told in simple, vivid sentences of the services of the Salvation Army
just back of the trenches under fire; and President Wilson sat listening
and applauding with the rest.

The chaplain paid a tribute to President Wilson, finishing with these
words:

"President Wilson was not man-elected, but God-selected!"



CHAPLAINS.

 For some little time after the War started it was a question as to
whether the Salvation Army was entitled to any representation in the realm
of Chaplaincies of the United States forces. During the progress of the
consideration Adjutant Harry Kline secured an appointment with the
Nebraska National Guard, and his regiment being made a part of the
National Army, he was received as an officer of the same and thus became
our first Army Chaplain.

The War Office decided favorably with regard to the question of our
general representation, and shortly thereafter Adjutant John Allan, of
Bowery fame, was given a first lieutenancy and then followed, in the order
given, Captain Ernest Holz, Adjutant Ryan and Captain Norman Marshall.

The exceptional service that these men have rendered is of sufficient
importance to have a much wider notice than where only the barest of
reference is possible. Shortly after arrival in France Chaplain Allan was
being very favorably noticed because of the character of the work which he
was doing, and it was gratifying to learn that this confidence was
reflected in his appointment as Senior Chaplain of his regiment and his
assignment to special service where probity and wisdom were essential.
Shortly thereafter he was taken to the Army Headquarters, where up to the
present time he is most highly esteemed as a co-laborer with Bishop Brent,
the Chaplain-General of the overseas forces.

Typical of the enthusiasm of each of the five men appointed as Chaplains,
the following story is told of First Lieutenant Ernest Holz, who was
inducted into his office as Senior Chaplain of his regiment right at the
commencement of his career.

At the beginning of the year, when Chaplain Holz knew his Salvation Army
comrades would, as usual, be engaged in special revival work, he thought
it would be a worthy thing to time a similar effort among the men of his
regiment. Approaching the Colonel, he found him in hearty agreement
concerning the effort, and so securing the assistance of his fellow
chaplains they arranged for a series of meetings nightly for one week,
with the result that two hundred of the men of the regiment confessed
Christ and practically all of them were deeply interested.

The effort was wholly directed to the uplift of the men and God commanded
His blessing in a most gratifying manner.




XI.

Homecoming



The boat docked that morning, and one soldier at least, as he stood on the
deck and watched the shores of his native land draw nearer, felt mingling
with the thrill of joy at his return a vague uneasiness. He was coming
back, it is true, but it had been a long time and a lot of things had
happened. For one thing he had lost his foot. That in itself was a pretty
stiff proposition. For another thing he was not wearing any decorations
save the wound stripes on his sleeve. Those would have been enough, and
more than enough, for his mother if she were alive, but she had gone away
from earth during his absence, and the girl he had kissed good-bye and
promised great things was peculiar. The question was, would she stand for
that amputated foot? He didn't like to think it of her, but he found he
wasn't sure. Perhaps, if there had been a croix de guerre! He had promised
her to win that and no end of other honors, when he went away so buoyant
and hopeful; but almost on his first day of real battle he had been hurt
and tossed aside like a derelict, to languish in a hospital, with no more
hope of winning anything. And now he had come home with one foot gone, and
no distinction!

He hadn't told the girl yet about the foot. He didn't know as he should.
He felt lonely and desolate in spite of his joy at getting back to "God's
Country." He frowned at the hazy outline of the great city from which tall
buildings were beginning to differentiate themselves as they drew nearer.
There was New York. He meant to see New York, of course. He was a
Westerner and had never had an opportunity to go about the metropolis of
his own country. Of course, he would see it all. Perhaps, after he was
demobilized he would stay there. Maybe he wouldn't send word he had come
back. Let them think he was killed or taken prisoner, or missing, or
anything they liked. There were things to do in New York. There were
places where he would be welcome even with one foot gone and no cross of
war. Thus he mused as the boat drew nearer the shore and the great city
loomed close at hand. Then, suddenly, just as the boat was touching the
pier and a long murmur of joy went up from the wanderers on board, his
eyes dropped idly to the dock and there in her trim little overseas
uniform, with the sunlight glancing from the silver letters on the scarlet
shield of her trench cap and the smile radiating from her sweet face,
stood the very same Salvation Army lassie who had bent over him as he lay
on the ground just back of the trenches waiting to be put in the ambulance
and taken to the hospital after he had been wounded. He could feel again
the throbbing pain in his leg, the sickening pain of his head as he lay in
the hot sun, with the flies swarming everywhere, the horrible din of
battle all about, and his tongue parched and swollen with fever from lying
all night in pain on the wet ground of No Man's Land. She had laid a soft
little hand on his hot forehead, bathed his face, and brought him a cold
drink of lemonade. If he lived to be a hundred years old he would never
taste anything so good as that lemonade had been. Afterward the doctor
said it was the good cold drink that day that saved the lives of those
fever patients who had lain so long without attention. Oh, he would never
forget the Salvation lassie! And there she was alive and at home! She
hadn't been killed as the fellows had been afraid she would. She had come
through it all and here she was always ahead and waiting to welcome a
fellow home. It brought the tears smarting to his eyes to think about it,
and he leaned over the rail of the ship and yelled himself hoarse with the
rest over her, forgetting all about his lost foot. It was hours before
they were off the ship. All the red tape necessary for the movement of
such a company of men had to be unwound and wound up again smoothly, and
the time stretched out interminably; but somehow it did not seem so hard
to wait now, for there was someone down there on the dock that he could
speak to, and perhaps--just perhaps--he would tell her of his dilemma
about his girl. Somehow he felt that she would understand.

He watched eagerly when he was finally lined up on the wharf waiting for
roll-call, for he was sure she would come; and she did, swinging down the
line with her arms full of chocolate, handing out telegraph blanks and
postal cards, real postal cards with a stamp on them that could be mailed
anywhere. He gripped one in his big, rough hand as if it were a life
preserver. A real, honest-to-goodness postal card! My it was good to see
the old red and white stamp again! And he spoke impulsively:

"You're the girl that saved my life out there in the field, don't you
remember? With the lemonade!" Her face lit up. She had recognized him and
somehow cleared one hand of chocolate and telegrams to grasp his with a
hearty welcome: "I'm so glad you came through all right!" her cheery voice
said.

All right! _All right!_ Did she call it all right? He looked down at
his one foot with a dubious frown. She was quick to see. She understood.

"Oh, but that's nothing!" she said, and somehow her voice put new heart
into him. "Your folks will be so glad to have you home you'll forget all
about it. Come, aren't you going to send them a telegram?" And she held
out the yellow blank.

But still he hesitated.

"I don't know," he said, looking down at his foot again. "Mother's gone,
and------"

Instantly her quick sympathy enveloped his sore soul, and he felt that
just the inflection of her voice was like balm when she said: "I'm so
sorry!" Then she added:

"But isn't there somebody else? I'm sure there was. I'm sure you told me
about a girl I was to write to if you didn't come through. Aren't you
going to let her know? Of course you are."

"I don't know," said the boy. "I don't think I am. Maybe I'll never go
back now. You see, I'm not what I was when I went away."

"Nonsense!" said the lassie with that cheerful assurance that had carried
her through shell fire and made her merit the pet name of "Sunshine" that
the boys had given her in the trenches. "Why, that wouldn't be fair to
her. Of course, you're going to let her know right away. Leave it to me.
Here, give me her address!"

Quick as a flash she had the address and was off to a telephone booth.
This was no message that could wait to go back to headquarters. It must go
at once.

He saw her again before he left the wharf. She gave him a card with two
addresses written on it:

"This first is where you can drop in and rest when you are tired," she
explained. "It's just one of our huts; the other is where you can find a
good bed when you are in the city."

Then she was off with a smile down the line, giving out more telegraph
blanks and scattering sunshine wherever she went. He glanced back as he
left the pier and saw her still floating eagerly here and there like a
little sister looking after more real brothers.

The next day, when he was free and on a few days leave from camp, he
started out with his crutch to see the city, but the thought of her kept
him from some of the places where his feet might have strayed. Yet she had
not said a word of warning. Her smile and the look in her eyes had placed
perfect confidence in him, and he could remember the prayer she had
uttered in a low tone back there at the dressing station behind the
trenches in the ear of a companion who was not going to live to get to the
Base Hospital, and who had begged her to pray with him before he went.
Somehow it lingered with him all day and changed his ideas of what he
wanted to see in New York.

But it was a long hard tramp he had set for himself to see the town with
that one foot. He hadn't much money for cars, even if he had known which
cars to take, so he hobbled along and saw what he could. He was all alone,
for the fellows he started with went so fast and wanted to do so many
things that he could not do, that he had made an excuse to shake them off.
They were kind. They would not have left him if they had known; but he
wasn't going to begin his new life having everybody put out on his
account, so he was alone. And it was toward evening. He was very tired. It
seemed to him that he couldn't go another block. If only there were a
place somewhere where he could sit down a little while and rest; even a
doorstep would do if there were only one near at hand. Of course, there
were saloons, and there would always be soldiers in them. He would likely
be treated, and there would be good cheer, and a chance to forget for a
little while; but somehow the thought of that Salvation lassie and the
cheery way she had made him send that telegram kept him back. When a girl
with painted cheeks stopped and smiled in his face he passed her by, and
half wondered why he did it. He must go somewhere presently and get a bite
to eat, but it couldn't be much for he wanted to save money enough and
hunt up that lodging house where there were nice beds. How much he wanted
that bed!

[Illustration: Right in the midst of the busy hurrying throng of Union
Square]

[Illustration: "Smiling Billy" "One Game Little Guy"]

It was quite dark now. The lights were lit everywhere. He was coming to a
great thoroughfare. He judged by his slight knowledge of the city that it
might be Broadway. There would likely be a restaurant somewhere near. He
hurried on and turned into the crowded street. How cold it was! The wind
cut him like a knife. He had been a fool to come off alone like this! Just
out of the hospital, too. Perhaps he would get sick and have to go to
another hospital. He shivered and stopped to pull his collar up closer
around his neck. Then suddenly he stood still and stared with a dazed,
bewildered expression, straight ahead of him. Was he getting a bit leary?
He passed his hand over his eyes and looked again. Yes, there it was!
Right in the midst of the busy, hurrying throng of Union Square! He made
sure it was Union Square, for he looked up at the street sign to be
certain it wasn't Willow Vale--or Heaven--right there where streets met
and crossed, and cars and trolleys and trucks whirled, and people passed
in throngs all day, just across the narrow road, stood the loveliest, most
perfect little white clapboard cottage that ever was built on this earth,
with porches all around and a big tree growing up through the roof of one
porch. It stood out against the night like a wonderful mirage, like a
heavenly dove descended into the turmoil of the pit, like home and mother
in the midst of a rushing pitiless world. He could have cried real tears
of wonder and joy as he stood there, gazing. He felt as though he were one
of those motion pictures in which a lone Klondiker sits by his campfire
cooking a can of salmon or baked beans, and up above him on the screen in
one corner appears the Christmas tree where his wife and baby at home are
celebrating and missing him. It seemed just as unreal as that to see that
little beautiful home cottage set down in the midst of the city.

The windows were all lit up with a warm, rosy light and there were
curtains at the windows, rosy pink curtains like the ones they used to
have at the house where his girl lived, long ago before the War spoiled
him. He stood and continued to gaze until a lot of cash-boys, let loose
from the toil of the day, rushed by and almost knocked his crutch from
under him. Then he determined to get nearer this wonder. Carefully
watching his opportunity he hobbled across the street and went slowly
around the building. Yes, it was real. Some public building, of course,
but how wonderful to have it look so like a home! Why had they done it?

Then he came around toward the side, and there in plain letters was a
sign: "SOLDIERS AND SAILORS IN UNIFORM WELCOME." What? Was it possible?
Then he might go in? What kind of a place could it be?

He raised his eyes a little and there, slung out above the neatly shingled
porch, like any sign, swung an immense fat brown doughnut a foot and a
half in diameter, with the sugar apparently still sticking to it, and
inside the rough hole sat a big white coffee cup. His heart leaped up and
something suddenly gave him an idea. He fumbled in his pocket, brought out
a card, saw that this was the Salvation Army hut, and almost shouted with
joy. He lost no time in hurrying around to the door and stepping inside.

There revealed before him was a great cozy room, with many easy-chairs and
tables, a piano at which a young soldier sat playing ragtime, and at the
farther end a long white counter on which shone two bright steaming urns
that sent forth a delicious odor of coffee. Through an open door behind
the counter he caught a glimpse of two Salvation Army lassies busy with
some cups and plates, and a third enveloped in a white apron was up to her
elbows in flour, mixing something in a yellow bowl. By one of the little
tables two soldier boys were eating doughnuts and coffee, and at another
table a sailor sat writing a letter. It was all so cozy and homelike that
it took his breath away and he stood there blinking at the lights that
flooded the rooms from graceful white bowl-like globes that hung suspended
from the ceiling by brass chains. He saw that the rosy light outside had
come from soft pink silk sash curtains that covered the lower part of the
windows, and there were inner draperies of some heavier flowered material
that made the whole thing look real and substantial. The willow chairs had
cushions of the same flowered stuff. The walls were a soft pearly gray
below and creamy white above, set off by bands of dark wood, and a dark
floor with rush mats strewn about. He looked around slowly, taking in
every detail almost painfully. It was such a contrast to the noisy,
rushing street, a contrast to the hospital, and the trenches and all the
life with which he had been familiar during the past few dreadful months.
It made him think of home and mother. He began to be afraid he was going
to cry like a great big baby, and he looked around nervously for a place
to get out of sight. He saw a fellow going upstairs and at a distance he
followed him. Up there was another bright, quiet room, curtained and
cushioned like the other, with more easy willow chairs, round willow
tables, and desks over by the wall where one might write. The soldier who
had come up ahead of him was already settled writing now at a desk in the
far corner. There were bookcases between the windows with new beautifully
bound books in them, and there were magazines scattered around, and no
rules that one must not spit on the floor, or put their feet in the
chairs, or anything of the sort. Only, of course, no one would ever dream
of doing anything like that in such a place. How beautiful it was, and how
quiet and peaceful! He sank into a chair and looked about him. What rest!

And now there were real tears in his eyes which he hastened to brush
roughly away, for someone was coming toward him and a hand was on his
shoulder. A man's voice, kindly, pleasant, brotherly, spoke:

"All in, are you, my boy? Well, you just sit and rest yourself awhile.
What do you think of our hut? Good place to rest? Well, that's what we
want it to be to you, Home. Just drop in here whenever you're in town and
want a place to rest or write, or a bite of something homelike to eat."

He looked up to the broad shoulders in their well-fitting dark blue
uniform, and into the kindly face of the gray-haired Colonel of the
Salvation Army who happened to step in for a minute on business and had
read the look on the lonesome boy's face just in time to give a word of
cheer. He could have thrown his arms around the man's neck and kissed him
if he only hadn't been too shy. But in spite of the shyness he found
himself talking with this fine strong man and telling him some of his
disappointments and perplexities, and when the older man left him he was
strengthened in spirit from the brief conversation. Somehow it didn't look
quite so black a prospect to have but one foot.

He read a magazine for a little while and then, drawn by the delicious
odors, he went downstairs and had some coffee and doughnuts. He saw while
he was eating that the front porch opened out of the big lower room and
was all enclosed in glass and heated with radiators. A lot of fellows were
sitting around there in easy-chairs, smoking, talking, one or two sleeping
in their chairs or reading papers. It had a dim, quiet light, a good place
to rest and think. He was more and more filled with wonder. Why did they
do it? Not for money, for they charged hardly enough to pay for the
materials in the food they sold, and he knew by experience that when one
had no money one could buy of them just the same if one were in need.

Later in the evening he took out the little card again and looked up the
other address. He wanted one of those clean, sweet beds that he had been
hearing about, that one could get for only a quarter a night, with all the
shower-bath you wanted thrown in. So he went out again and found his way
down to Forty-first Street.

There was something homelike about the very atmosphere as he entered the
little office room and looked about him. Beyond, through an open door he
could see a great red brick fireplace with a fire blazing cheerfully and a
few fellows sitting about reading and playing checkers. Everybody looked
as if they felt at home.

When he signed his name in the big register book the young woman behind
the desk who wore an overseas uniform glanced at his signature and then
looked up as if she were welcoming an old friend:

"There's a telegram here for you," she said pleasantly. "It came last
night and we tried to locate you at the camp but did not succeed. One of
our girls went over to camp this afternoon, but they said you were gone on
a furlough, so we hoped you would turn up."

She handed over the telegram and he took it in wonder. Who would send him
a telegram? And here of all places! Why, how would anybody know he would
be here? He was so excited his crutch trembled under his arm as he tore
open the envelope and read:

 "Dear Billy (It was a regular letter!):

"I am leaving to-night for New York. Will meet you at Salvation Hostel day
after to-morrow morning. What is a foot more or less? Can't I be hands and
feet for you the rest of your life? I'm proud, proud, proud of you!

                                              Signed "Jean"

 He found great tears coming into his eyes and his throat was full of
them, too. It didn't matter if that Salvation Army lassie behind the
counter did see them roll down his cheeks. He didn't care. She would
understand anyway, and he laughed out loud in his joy and relief, the
first joy, the first relief since he was hurt!

Some one else was coming in the door, another fellow maybe, but the lassie
opened a door in the desk and drew him behind the counter in a shaded
corner where no one would notice and brought him a cup of tea, which she
said was all they had around to eat just then. She didn't pay any
attention to him till he got his equilibrium again.

She was the kind of woman one feels is a natural-born mother. In fact, the
fellows were always asking her wistfully: "May we call you Mother?" Young
enough to understand and enter into their joys and sorrows, yet old enough
to be wise and sweet and true. She mothered every boy that came.

A sailor boy once asked if he might bring his girl to see her. He said he
wanted her to see her so she could tell his mother about her.

"But can't you tell her about your girl?" she asked.

"Oh, yes, but I want you to tell her." he said. "You see, whatever you say
mother'll know is true."

So presently she turned to this lonely boy and took him upstairs through
the pleasant upper room with its piano and games, its sun parlor over the
street, lined with trailing ferns, with cheery canaries in swinging
tasseled cages, who looked fully as happy and at home as did the soldier
boys who were sitting about comfortably reading. She found him a room with
only one other bunk in it. Nice white beds with springs like air and
mattresses like down. She showed him where the shower-baths were, and with
a kindly good-night left him. He almost wanted to ask her to kiss him
good-night, so much like his own mother she seemed.

Before he got into that white bed he knelt beside it, all clean and
comfortable and happy like a little child that had wandered a long way
from home and got back again, and he told God he was sorry and ashamed for
all the way he had doubted, and sinned, and he wanted to live a new life
and be good. Then he lay down to sleep. To-morrow morning Jean would be
there. And she didn't mind about the foot! She didn't mind! How wonderful!

And then he had a belated memory of the little Salvation Army lassie on
the wharf who had brought all this about, and he closed his eyes and
murmured out loud to the clean, white walls: "God bless her! Oh, God bless
her!"

This is only one of the many stories that might be told about the boys who
have been helped by the various activities of the Salvation Army, both at
home and abroad.

It would be well worth one's while to visit their Brooklyn Hospital and
their New York Hospital and all their other wonderful institutions. In
several of them are many little children, some mere infants, belonging to
soldiers and sailors away in the war. In some instances the mother is
dead, or has to work. If she so desires she is given work in the
institution, which is like a real home, and allowed to be with her child
and care for it. Where both mother and father are dead the child remains
for six years or until a home elsewhere is provided for it. Here the
little ones are well cared for, not in the ordinary sense of an
institution, but as a child would be cared for in a home, with beauty and
love, and pleasure mingling with the food and shelter and raiment that is
usually supplied in an institution. These children are prettily, though
simply, dressed and not in uniform; with dainty bits of color in hair
ribbon, collar, necktie or frock; the babies have wee pink and blue wool
caps and sacks like any beloved little mites, they ride around on Kiddie
Cars, play with doll houses and have a fine Kindergarten teacher to guide
their young minds, and the best of hospital service when they are ailing.
But that is another story, and there are yet many of them. If everybody
could see the beautiful life-size painting of Christ blessing the little
children which is painted right on the very wall and blended into the
tinting, they could better comprehend the spirit which pervades this
lovely home.

The New York Hospital, which has just been rebuilt and refurnished with
all the latest appliances, is in charge of a devoted woman physician, who
has given her life to healing, and has at the head of its Board one of the
most noted surgeons in the city, who gives his services free, and boasts
that he enjoys it best of all his work. Here those of small means or of no
means at all, especially those belonging to soldiers and sailors, may find
healing of the wisest and most expert kind, in cheery, airy, sanitary and
beautiful rooms. But here, too, to understand, one must see. Just a peep
into one of those dainty white rooms would rest a poor sick soul; just a
glance at the room full of tiny white basket cribs with dainty blue satin-
bound blankets--real wool blankets--and white spreads, would convince
one.

And what one sees in New York in the line of such activities is duplicated
in most of the other large cities of the United States.

Not the least of the Salvation Army service for the returning soldiers is
the work that is done on the docks by the lassies meeting returning troop
ships. They send telegrams free, not C.O.D., for them, give the men
stamped postal cards, hunt up relatives, answer questions, and give them
chocolate while they wait for the inevitable roll call before they can
entrain. Often these girls will sit up half the night after having met
boats nearly all day, to get the telegrams all off that night. It is
interesting to note that on one single day, April 20th, 1919, the
Salvation Army Headquarters in New York sent 2900 such free telegrams for
returning soldiers.

The other day the father of a soldier came to Headquarters with an anxious
face, after a certain unit from overseas had returned. It was the unit in
which his boy had gone to France, but he had written saying he was in the
hospital without stating what was the matter or how serious his wound. No
further word had been received and the father and mother were frenzied
with grief. They had tried in every way to get information but could find
out nothing. The Salvation Army went to work on the telephone and in a
short time were able to locate the missing boy in a Casual Company soon to
return, and to report to his anxious father that he was recovering
rapidly.

Another soldier arrived in New York and sent a Salvation Army telegram to
his father and mother in California who had previously received
notification that he was dead. A telegram came back to the Salvation Army
almost at once from the West stating this fact and begging some one to go
to the camp where the boy's Casual Company was located and find out if he
were really living. One of the girls from the office went over to the
Debarkation Hospital immediately and saw the boy, and was able to
telegraph to his parents that he was perfectly recovered and only awaiting
transportation to California. He was overjoyed to see someone who had
heard from his parents.

A portion of one troop ship had been reserved for soldiers having
influenza. These men were kept on board long after all the others had left
the ship. A Salvation Army worker seeing them with the white masks over
their faces went on board and served them with chocolate, distributing
post cards and telegraph blanks. When she was leaving the ship a Captain
said to her rather brusquely: "Don't you realize that you have done a
foolish thing? Those men have influenza and your serving them might mean
your death!"

Looking up into the man's eyes the Salvationist said: "I am ready to die
if God sees fit to call me."

The officer laughed and told her that was the first time in his life he
had known anyone to say they were ready to die and would willingly expose
themselves to such a contagious disease.

"Aren't you ready to die?" asked the girl. "Certainly not," replied the
Captain. "Sometimes I think I am hardly fit to live, much less die."

"Don't you realize that there is a Power which can enable you to live in
such a way as to make you ready to die?"

"Oh, well, I don't bother about going to church, in fact, I don't bother
about religion at all, although I must say once or twice when I was up the
line over there I wished I did know something about religion, that is, the
kind that makes a fellow feel good about dying; but I don't want to go to
church and go through all that business."

"It is possible to accept Christ here and now on this very spot--on this
ship--if you'll only believe," said the girl wistfully.

The Captain could not help being interested and thoughtful. When she left,
after a little more talk he put out his hand and said:

"Thank you. You've done me more good than any sermon could have done me,
and believe me, I am going to pray and trust God to help me live a
different life."

Sad things are seen on the docks at times when the ships come into port,
and the boys are coming home.

A soldier in a basket, with both arms and both legs gone and only one eye,
was being carried tenderly along.

"Why do you let him live?" asked one pityingly of the Commanding Officer.

The gruff, kindly voice replied:

"You don't know what life is. We don't live through our arms and legs. We
live through our hearts."

Some of our boys have learned out there amid shell fire to live through
their hearts.

One of these lying on a litter greeted the lassie from Indiana, just come
back to New York from France to meet the boys when they landed:

"Hello, Sister! _You here?_"

Her eyes filled with tears as she recognized one of her old friends of the
trenches, and noticed how helpless he was now, he who had been the
strongest of the strong. She murmured sympathetically some words of
attempted cheer:

"Oh, that's all right, Sister," he said, "I know they got me pretty hard,
but I don't mind that. I'm not going to feel bad about it. I got something
better than arms and legs over in one of your little huts in France. I
found Jesus, and I'm going to live for Him. I wanted you to know."

A few days later she was talking with another boy just landed. She asked
him how it seemed to be home again, and to her surprise he turned a
sorrowful face to her:

"It's the greatest disappointment of my life," he said sadly, "the folks
here don't understand. They all want to make me forget, and I don't want
to forget what I learned out there. I saw life in a different way and I
knew I had wasted all the years. I want to live differently now, and
mother and her friends are just getting up dances and theatre parties for
me to help me to forget. They don't understand."

Forty miles west of Chicago is Camp Grant and there the Salvation Army has
put up a hut just outside of the camp.

During the days when the boys were being sent to France, and were under
quarantine, unable to go out, no one was allowed to come in and there was
great distress. Mothers and sisters and friends could get no opportunity
to see them for farewells.

The Salvation officer in charge suggested to the military authorities that
the Salvation Army hut be the clearing place for relatives, and that he
would come in his machine and bring the boys to the hut, taking them back
again afterwards, that they might have a few hours with their friends
before leaving for France.

This offer was readily accepted by the authorities, and so it was made
possible for hundreds and hundreds of mothers to get a last talk with
their boys before they left, some of them forever.

One day a young man came to the Salvation Army officer and told him that
his regiment was to depart that night and that he was in great distress
about his wife who on her way to see him had been caught in a railroad
wreck, and later taken on her way by a rescue train. "I think she is in
Rockford somewhere," he said anxiously, "but I don't know where, and I
have to leave in three hours!"

The Ensign was ready with his help at once. He took the young soldier in
his car to Rockford, seven miles away, and they went from hotel to hotel
seeking in vain for any trace of the wife. Then suddenly as they were
driving along the street wondering what to try next the young soldier
exclaimed: "There she is!" And there she was, walking along the street!

The two had a blessed two hours together before the soldier had to leave.
But it was all in the day's work for the Salvation Army man, for his main
object in life is to help someone, and he never minds how much he puts
himself out. It is always reward enough for him to have succeeded in
bringing comfort to another.

One of the Salvation Army Ensigns who was assigned to work at Camp Grant
hut had been an all-round athlete before he joined the Salvation Army, a
boxer and wrestler of no mean order.

The fame of the Ensign went abroad and the doctor at the Base Hospital
asked him to take charge of athletics in the hospital. He was also
appointed regularly as chaplain in the hospital. Every day he drilled the
five hundred women nurses in gymnastics, and put the men attendants and as
many of the patients as were able through a set of exercises. Thus
mingling his religion with his athletics he became a great power among the
men in the hospital.

The Salvation Army asked the hospital if there was anything they could do
for the wounded men. The reply was, that there were eighty wards and not a
graphophone in one of them, nothing to amuse the boys. The need was
promptly filled by the Salvation Army which supplied a number of
graphophones and a piano. Then, discovering that the nurses who were
getting only a very small cash allowance out of which they had to furnish
their uniforms, were short of shoes, the indefatigable good Samaritan
produced a thousand dollars to buy new shoes for them. The Salvation Army
has always been doing things like that.

The Salvation Army built many huts, locating them wherever there was need
among the camps. They have a hut at Camp Grant, one at Camp Funston, one
at Camp Travis, San Antonio, one at Camp Logan, Houston, Texas, one at
Camp Bowie, Fort Worth, one at Camp Cody, Deming, New Mexico, one at Camp
Lewis, Tacoma, a Soldiers' Club at Des Moines, a Soldiers' Club with
Sitting Room, Dining Room, and rooms for a hundred soldiers just opened at
Chicago. There is a charge of twenty-five cents a night and twenty-five
cents a meal for such as have money. No charge for those who have no
money. There is such a Soldiers' Club at St. Louis, Kansas City, St. Paul
and Minneapolis. All of these places at the camps have accommodations for
women relatives to visit the soldiers, and all of the rooms are always
full to the limit.

In Des Moines the Army has an interesting institution which grew out of a
great need.

The Federal authorities have placed a Woman's Protective Agency in all
Camp towns. At Des Moines the woman representative of the Federal
Government sent word to the Salvation Army that she wished they would help
her. She said she had found so many young girls between the ages of
fourteen and sixteen who were being led into an immoral life through the
soldiers, and she wished the Salvation Army would open a home to take care
of such girls.

With their usual swiftness to come to the rescue the Salvation Army opened
such a home. The Brigadier up in Chicago gave up his valued private
secretary, a lovely young girl only twenty-four years old, to be at the
head of this home. It may seem a pretty big undertaking for so young a
girl, but these Salvation Army girls are brought up to be wonderfully wise
and sweet beyond others, and if you could look into her beautiful eyes you
would have an understanding of the consecration and strength of character
that has made it possible for her to do this work with marvellous success,
and reach the hearts and turn the lives of these many young girls who have
come under her influence in this way. In her work she deals with the
individual, always giving immediate relief for any need, always pointing
the way straight and direct to a better life. The young girls are kept in
the home for a week or more until some near relative can be sent for, or
longer, until a home and work can be found for them. Every case is dealt
with on its own merits; and many young girls have had their feet set upon
the right road, and a new purpose in life given to them with new ideals,
from the young Christian girl whom they easily love and trust.

So great has been the success of the Salvation Army hut and women's hostel
at Camp Lewis that the United States Government has asked the Salvation
Army to put up a hundred thousand dollar hotel at that camp which is
located twenty miles out of Tacoma. The Salvation Army hut at this place
was recently inspected by Secretary of War Baker and Chief of Staff who
highly complimented the Salvationists on the good work being done.

A Christmas box was sent by the Salvation Army to each soldier in every
camp and hospital throughout the West. Each box contained an orange, an
apple, two pounds of nuts, one pound of raisins, one pound of salted
peanuts, one package of figs, two handkerchiefs in sealed packets, one
book of stamps, a package of writing paper, a New Testament, and a
Christmas letter from the Commissioner at Headquarters in Chicago.

No Officer in the Salvation Army has been more successful in ingenious
efforts to further all activities connected with the work than
Commissioner Estill in command of the Western forces. He is an
indefatigable and tireless worker, is greatly beloved, and his efforts
have met with exceptional success.

It was a new manager who had taken hold of the affairs of the Salvation
Army Hostel in a certain city that morning and was establishing family
prayers. A visitor, waiting to see someone, sat in an alcove listening.

There in the long beautiful living-room of the Hostel sat a little
audience, two black women-the cooks-several women in neat aprons and caps
as if they had come in from their work, a soldier who had been reading the
morning paper and who quietly laid it aside when the Bible reading began,
a sailor who tiptoed up the two low steps from the caf beyond the living-
room where he had been having his morning coffee and doughnuts--the young
clerk from behind the office desk. They all sat quiet, respectful, as if
accorded a sudden, unexpected privilege.

[Illustration: Thomas Estill Commissioner of the Western Forces]

[Illustration: The hut at Camp Lewis]

The reading was a few well-chosen verses about Moses in the mount of
vision and somehow seemed to have a strange quieting influence and carried
a weight of reality read thus in the beginning of a busy day's work.

The reader closed the book and quite familiarly, not at all pompously, he
said with a pleasant smile that this was a lesson for all of them. Each
one should have his vision for the day. The cook should have a vision as
she made the doughnuts--and he called her by her name--to make them just
as well as they could be made; and the women who made the beds should have
a vision of how they could make the beds smooth and soft and fine to rest
weary comers; and those who cleaned must have a vision to make the house
quite pure and sweet so that it would be a home for the boys who came
there; the clerk at the desk should have a vision to make the boys
comfortable and give them a welcome; and everyone should have a vision of
how to do his work in the best way, so that all who came there for a day
or a night or longer should have a vision when they left that God was
ruling in that place and that everything was being done for His praise.

Just a few simple words bringing the little family of workers into touch
with the Divine and giving them a glimpse of the great plan of laboring
with God where no work is menial, and nothing too small to be worth doing
for the love of Christ. Then the little company dropped upon their knees,
and the earnest voice took up a prayer which was more an intimate word
with a trusted beloved Companion; and they all arose to go about that work
of theirs with new zest and--a vision!

In her alcove out of sight the visitor found refreshment for her own soul,
and a vision also.

This is the secret of this wonderful work that these people do in France,
in the cities, everywhere; they have a vision! They have been upon the
Mountain with God and they have not forgotten the injunction:

"See that thou do all things according to the pattern given thee in the
Mount"

But the stories multiply and my space is drawing to a close. I am minded
to say reverently in words of old:

"And there are also many other things which these disciples of Jesus did,
the which if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the
world itself could not contain the books that should be written;" but are
they not graven in the hearts of men who found the Christ on the
battlefield or the hospital cot, or in the dim candle-lit hut, through
these dear followers of His?



XII.

Letters of Appreciation



MY DEAR MISS BOOTH:

You may be sure that your telegram of November fifteenth warmed my heart
and brought me very real cheer and encouragement. It is a message of just
the sort that one needs in these trying times, and I hope that you will
express to your associates my profound appreciation and my entire
confidence in their loyalty, their patriotism, and their enthusiasm for
the great work they are doing.

Cordially and sincerely yours,
Woodrow Wilson.
Nov. 30,1917.


MY DEAR MISS BOOTH:

I am very much interested to hear of the campaign the Salvation Army has
undertaken for money to sustain its war activities, and want to take the
opportunity to express my admiration for the work that it has done and my
sincere hope that it may be fully sustained.

(Signed) WOODROW WILSON.
The President of the United States of America.


Commander Evangeline Booth,
Paris, 7 April, 1919.
122 W. 14th Street, New York, U.S.A.

I am very much interested to know that the Salvation Army is about to
enter into a campaign for a sustaining fund.

I feel that the Salvation Army needs no commendation from me. The love and
gratitude it has elicited from the troops is a sufficient evidence of the
work it has done and I feel that I should not so much commend as
congratulate it.

Cordially and sincerely yours,
Woodrow Wilson.


British Delegation, Paris, 8th April, 1919.

DEAR MADAM:

I have very great pleasure in sending you this letter to say how highly I
think of the great work which has been done by the Salvation Army amongst
the Allied Armies in France and the other theatres of war. From all sides
I hear the most glowing accounts of the way in which your people have
added to the comfort and welfare of our soldiers. To me it has always been
a great joy to think how much the sufferings and hardships endured by our
troops in all parts of the world have been lessened by the self-sacrifice
and devotion shown to them by that excellent organization, the Salvation
Army.

Yours faithfully,
W. Lloyd George.


General J. J. Pershing, France.

The Salvation Army of America will never cease to hail you with devoted
affection and admiration for your valiant leadership of your valiant army.
You have rushed the advent of the world's greatest peace, and all men
honor you. To God be all the glory!

Commander Evangeline Booth.



Commander Evangeline Booth, New York City.

"Many thanks for your cordial cable. The American Expeditionary Forces
thank you for all your noble work that the Salvation Army has done for
them from the beginning."

General Pershing.


With deep feeling of gratitude for the enormous contribution which the
Salvation Army has made to the moral and physical welfare of this
expedition all ranks join me in sending heartiest Christmas greetings and
cordial best wishes for the New Year.

(Signed) Pershing.


Salvation, New York.
Paris, April 22, 1919.

The following cable received, Colonel William S. Barker, Director of the
Salvation Army, Paris: My dear Colonel Barker--I wish to express to you my
sincere appreciation, and that of all members of the American
Expeditionary Forces, for the splendid services rendered by the Salvation
Army to the American Army in France. You first submitted your plans to me
in the summer of 1917, and before the end of that year you had a number of
Huts in operation in the Training Area of the First Division, and a group
of devoted men and women who laid the foundation for the affectionate
regard in which the workers of your organization have always been held by
the American soldiers. The outstanding features of the work of the
Salvation Army have been its disposition to push its activities as far as
possible to the Front, and the trained and experienced character of its
workers whose one thought was the well-being of its soldiers they came to
serve. While the maintenance of these standards has necessarily kept your
work within narrow bounds as compared to some of the other welfare
agencies, it has resulted in a degree of excellence and self-sacrifice in
the work performed which has been second to none. It has endeared your
organization and its individual men and women workers to all those
Divisions and other units to which they have been attached and has
published their good name to every part of the American Expeditionary
forces. Please accept this letter as a personal message to each one of
your workers. Very sincerely,

John J. Pershing.


Marshal Foch, Paris, France:

Your brilliant armies, under blessing of God, have triumphed. The
Salvation Army of America exults with war-worn but invincible France. We
must consolidate for God of Peace all the good your valor has secured.
Commander Evangeline Booth.


[Illustration: Western Union cablegram (transcription below)]

WESTERN UNION
ANGLO-AMERICAN DIRECT UNITED STATES
CABLEGRAM
34 Broadway N.Y.
Received at 16 BROAD STREET, NEW YORK

193 F8 PZ
FRANCE 31

EVANGELINE BOOTH
COMMANDER SALVATION ARMY
IN AMERICA NEW YORK

TRS TOUCH DU SENTIMENT LEV QUI A INSPIR VOTRE
TLGRAMME JE VOUS ADRESSE AINSI QU' VOS ADHRENTS MES
SINCRES REMERCIEMENTS

        MARECHAL FOCH


I am deeply touched by the high sentiment which inspired
your cablegram, and I tender you and your adherents sincere
thanks.

        MARSHAL FOCH



Letter from Sir Douglas Haig


Just before leaving London on Thursday for his provincial campaigns,
General Booth received the following letter from Field Marshal Sir Douglas
Haig. The generous tribute will be read with intense satisfaction by
Salvationists the world over:


General Headquarters, British Armies in France.
March 27, 1918.

I am glad to have the opportunity of congratulating the Salvation Army on
the service which its representatives have rendered during the past year
to the British Armies in France.

The Salvation Army workers have shown themselves to be of the right sort
and I value their presence here as being one of the best influences on the
moral and spiritual welfare of the troops at the bases. The inestimable
value of these influences is realized when the morale of the troops is
afterwards put to the test at the front.

The huts which the Salvation Army has staffed have besides been an
addition to the comfort of the soldiers which has been greatly
appreciated.

I shall be glad if you will convey the thanks of all ranks of the British
Expeditionary Forces in France to the Salvation Army for its continued
good work.

D. Haig, Field Marshal,
Commanding British Armies in France.


The Following Message from Marshal Joffre:

Miss Evangeline Booth,
Apr. 9, 1919.
New York City.

"President Wilson has said that the work of the Salvation Army on the
Franco-American front needs no praise in view of the magnificent results
obtained and remains only to be admired and congratulated. I cannot do
better than to use the same words which I am sure express the sentiments
of all French soldiers.     "J. Joffre."


From Field Marshal Viscount French.

"Of all the organizations that have come into existence during the past
fifty years none has done finer work or achieved better results in all
parts of the Empire than the Salvation Army. In particular, its activities
have been of the very greatest benefit to the soldiers in this war."


June 16, 1918.

Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, writing from Oyster Bay, Long Island, under
date of April 11, 1918, has the following to say to the War Work Executive
of the Salvation Army:

"I was greatly interested in your letter quoting the letter from my son
now with Pershing in France. His testimony as to the admirable work done
by the Salvation Army agrees with all my own observations as to what the
Salvation Army has done in war and in peace. You have had to enlarge
enormously your program and readjust your work in order to meet the need
of the vast number of soldiers and sailors serving our country overseas;
and you must have funds to help you. I am informed that over 40,000
Salvationists are in the ranks of the Allied armies. I can myself bear
testimony to the fact that you have a practical social service, combined
with practical religion, that appeals to multitudes of men who are not
reached by the regular churches; and I know that you were able to put your
organization to work in France before the end of the first month of the
World War. I am glad to learn that you do not duplicate or parallel the
work done by any other organization, and that you are in constant touch
with the War Work Councils of such organizations as the Y. M. C. A. and
the Bed Cross. I happen to know that you are now maintaining and operating
168 huts behind the lines in France, together with 70 hostels, and that
you have furnished 46 ambulances, manned and officered by Salvationists. I
am particularly interested to learn that 6000 women are knitting under the
direction of the Salvation Army, and with materials furnished by this
organization here in America, in order to turn out garments and useful
articles for the soldiers at the Front.

"Faithfully yours,

"(Signed) Theodore Roosevelt."



April 21st, 1919.

Commander Evangeline Booth,
120 West 14th Street, New York, N. Y.

Dear Commander Booth:

I have known the Salvation Army from its beginning.

The mother of the Salvation Army was Mrs. Catherine Booth, and her common
sense and Christian spirit laid the foundations; while her husband,
General William Booth, in his impressive frame, fertility of ideas, and
invincible spirit of evangelism always seemed to me as if he were closely
related to St. Peter, the fisherman--the man of ideas and many questions,
of the Lord's family.

General William Booth was of a discipleship that kept him always on the
"long, long trail" with a self-sacrificing spirit, but with a cheerfulness
that heard the nightingales in the early mornings that awakened him to
duty and service. He was never tired. The Salvation Army under the present
leadership of your brother, Bramwell Booth, has "carried on" along the
same roads, and with the same methods, as the great General who has passed
into the Beyond.

The Salvation Army has been itself true to the spirit of its mighty
originator during the present war. No work was too hard; no day was long
enough; no duty too simple, no self-denial was too great.

Prom my personal knowledge, the Salvation Army workers were consecrated to
their work. Just as the brave boys who carried the Flag, they were
soldiers fighting a battle, to find comforts, and a song to put music into
the hearts of the noble fellows that now lie sleeping on the ridges of the
Marne, with their graves unmarked save with a cross.

The sleepless vigilance of the Salvation Army extended from their kitchens
where they cooked for the boys, to the hospitals where they prayed with
them to the last hour when life ended in a silence, the stillest of all
slumbers.

The Armies of every country in which they labored have a record of their
faithfulness and devotion which will be sealed in the hearts of the many
thousands they helped in the days of the struggle for peace.

The question is, what can we do now to perpetuate the Salvation Army and
its work, and my reply is, that there is nothing they ask or want that
should be refused to them. They are worthy; they are competent; they can
be trusted with responsibility; and their splendid leader seems to have
almost a miraculous power for management in the work which her father
committed to her so far as America is concerned.

Very sincerely yours,

(Signed) John Wanamaker.



Cardinal's Residence, 408 Charles Street, Baltimore.
April 16, 1919.

Hon. Charles S. Whitman, New York City.

Honorable and Dear Sir:

I have been asked by the local Commander of the Salvation Army to address
a word to you as the National Chairman of the Campaign about to be
launched in behalf of the above named organization. This I am happy to do,
and for the reason that, along with my fellow American citizens, I rejoice
in the splendid service which the Salvation Army rendered our Soldier and
Sailor Boys during the war. Every returning trooper is a willing witness
to the efficient and generous work of the Salvation Army both at the
Front, and in the camps at home. I am also the more happy to commend this
organization because it is free from sectarian bias. The man in need of
help is the object of their effort, with never a question of his creed or
color.

I trust, therefore, your efforts to raise $13,000,000 for the Salvation
Army will meet with a hearty response from our generous American public.

Faithfully yours,
James, Cardinal, Gibbons.



Commissioner Plenipotentiary of the United States of America.

Paris, April 7th, 1919.

My Dear Commander Booth:

Those of us who have been fortunate enough to see something of the work of
the Salvation Army with the American troops have been made proud by the
devotion and self-sacrifice of the workers connected with your
organization.

I congratulate you and, through you, your associates, and I wish you the
best of fortune in the continuance of your splendid work.

Very sincerely yours,
L. M. House.



Commander Evangeline Booth, Salvation Army.

Evangeline Booth,
Salvation Army Headquarters, New York.

I have seen the work of the Salvation Army in France and consider it very
helpful and valuable. I trust you will be able to secure the means not
only for its maintenance but for the enlargement of its scope. It is a
good work and should be encouraged.

Leonard Wood.
Camp Funston, Kansas.



Brigadier-General Duncan wrote to Colonel Barker the
following letter:

December 7, 1917.

The Salvation Army in this its first experience with our troops has
stepped very closely into the hearts of the men. Your huts have been open
to them at all times. They have been cordially received in a homelike
atmosphere and many needs provided in religious teachings. Your efforts
have the honest support of our chaplains. I have talked with many of our
soldiers who are warm in their praise and satisfaction in what is being
done for them. For myself I feel that the Salvation Army has a real place
for its activities with our Army in France and I offer you and your
workers, men and women, good wishes and thanks for what you have done and
are doing for our men.

G. B. Duncan, Brigadier-General.



The Salvation Army is doing a great work in France and every soldier bears
testimony to the fact.

Omar Bundy, Major-General.



Headquarters First Division,
American Expeditionary Forces.

France, September 15, 1918.

From: Chief of Staff.

To: Major L. Allison Coe, Salvation Army.

Subject: Service in Operation against St. Mihiel Salient.

1. The Division Commander desires me to express to you his appreciation of
the particularly valuable service that the Salvation Army, through you and
your assistants, has rendered the Division during the recent operation
against the St. Mihiel salient.

2. You have furnished aid and comfort to the American soldier throughout
the trying experiences of the last few days, and in accomplishing this
worthy mission have spared yourself in nothing.

3. The Division Commander wishes me to thank you for the Division and for
himself.

CK/T.        Campbell King, Chief of Staff.



CABLEGRAM.

Paris, December 17,1917.

Commander Miss E, Booth, 120 W. 14th St., New York.

I am glad to be able to express my appreciation of the work done by the
Salvation Army in the way of providing for the comfort and welfare of the
Command. I think the efforts of the Salvation Army are admirable and
deserving of appreciation and commendation, and I consider the effort is
made without advertisement and that it reaches and is appreciated by those
for whom it is most needed.

L. P. MURPHY, Lieut.-Colonel of Cavalry.



CABLEGRAM.

Paris, December 17,1917.

Commander Miss E. Booth,
120 W. 14th Street, New York City.

I wish to express my most sincere appreciation of the work of your
organization with my regiment. Your Officer has done everything that could
be expected of any organization in carrying on his work with the soldiers
of this command, and has surpassed any such expectations. He has assisted
the soldiers in every way possible and has gained their hearty good will.
He has also shown himself willing and anxious to carry out regulations and
orders affecting his organization. As a matter of fact, all the officers
and soldiers of this command are most enthusiastic about the help of the
Salvation Army, and you can hear nothing but praise for its work. The work
of your organization, both religious and material, has been wholesome and
dignified, and I desire you to know that it is appreciated.

J. L. HINES,
Colonel, Sixteenth Infantry.



In sending a contribution toward the expenses of the War Work, Colonel
George B. McClellan wrote:

Treasurer, Salvation Army,       July 24, 1918.
120 West 14th Street, New York City.

DEAR SIR:

All the Officers I have talked with who have been in the trenches have
enthusiastically praised the work the Salvation Army is doing at the
front. They are agreed that for coolness under fire, cheerfulness under
the most adverse conditions, kindness, helpfulness and real efficiency,
your workers are unsurpassed.

Will you accept the enclosed check as my modest contribution to your War
Fund, and believe me to be

Yours very truly,
GEO. B. MCCLELLAND Lt.-Col. Ord. Dept., N. A.



CABLEGRAM.

Paris, December 17,1917.

Commander Miss B. Booth,
120 West 14th Street, New York City, N. Y.

I have carefully observed the work of the Salvation Army from their first
arrival in Training Area First Division American Expeditionary Force to
date. The work they have done for the enlisted men of the Division and the
places of amusement and recreation that they have provided for them, are
of the highest order. I unhesitatingly state that, in my opinion, the
Salvation Army has done more for the enlisted men of the First Division
than any other organization or society operating in France.

F. G. LAWTON,
Colonel, Infantry, National Army.



To WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

The work of the Salvation Army as illustrated by the work of Major S. H.
Atkins is duplicated by no one. He has been Chaplain and more besides. He
has the confidence of officers and men. Major Atkins, as typifying the
Salvation Army, has been forward at the very front with what is even more
important than the rear area work.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.



The following letter was sent to Major Atkins of the Salvation Army:

Headquarters, 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry,
France, December 26, 1917.

I wish to thank you for the great work you have been
doing here among the men of this battalion. You have
added greatly to the happiness and contentment of us all; giving, as you
have, an opportunity for good, clean entertainment and pleasure.

In religious work you have done much. As you know, this regiment has no
chaplain, and you have to a large extent taken the place of one here.

For myself, and on behalf of the officers stationed here, I wish to
express my appreciation of the work that you have been doing here, and the
hope that you can accompany the battalion wherever the fortune of war may
lead us.

Wishing you a very happy and successful New Year, I am

Yours sincerely,
(Signed) THEODORE ROOSEVELT, JR.,
Major (U.S.R.), 26th Infantry.



When Captain Archibald Roosevelt was lying wounded
in Red Cross Hospital No. 1 he wrote the following letter
to the same officer:

Red Cross Hospital No. 1.

July 10, 1918.

"You have, by your example, helped the men morally and physically. By your
continued presence in the most dangerous and uncomfortable periods, you
have made yourself the comrade and friend of every officer and man in our
battalion. It is in this way that you have filled a position which the
other charitable organizations had left vacant.

"Let me also mention that, perfect Democrat that you are, you have
realized the necessity of discipline, and have helped make the discipline
understood by these men and officers.

"If all the Salvation Army workers are like you, I sincerely hope to see
the time when there is a Salvation Army officer with each battalion in the
camp."



Before leaving France for the United States, two Salvation
Army lassies received the following letter:

I was very sorry to hear that you had been taken from this division, and
desire to express my appreciation of the excellent assistance you have
been to us.

In all of our "shows" you have been with us, and I wish that I knew of the
many sufferers you have cheered and made more comfortable. They are many
and, I am positive, will always have grateful thoughts of you.

I have seen you enduring hardships--going without food and sleep, working
day and night, sometimes under fire, both shell and avion--and never have
you been anything but cheerful and willing.

I thank you and your organization for all of this, and assure you of the
respect and gratitude of the entire division.

J. I. MABEE, Colonel, Medical Corps,
Division Surgeon.



CABLE.

January 17, 1918.

The Salvation Army, New York:

As Inspector General of the First Division I have inspected all the
Salvation Army huts in this Division area and I am glad to inform you that
your work here is a well-earned success. Your huts are warm, dry, light,
and, I believe, much appreciated by all the men in this Division. To make
these huts at all homelike under present conditions requires energy and
ability. I know that the Salvation Army men in this Division have it and
am very willing to so testify.

CONRAD S. BABCOCK, Lieut.-Colonel,
Inspector General, First Division.



"The Salvation Army keeps open house, and any time that a body of men come
back from the front lines, in from a convoy, there is hot coffee and
sometimes home-made doughnuts (all free to the men). I was in command of a
town where the hut never closed till 3 or 4 in the morning, and their
girls baked pies and made doughnuts up to the front, under shell fire, for
our infantrymen. A Salvation Army lassie is safe without an escort
anywhere in France where there is an American soldier. That speaks for
itself. I am for any organization that is out to do something for my men,
and I think that it is the idea of the American people when they give
their money. What we want is someone who is willing to come over here and
do something for the boys, regardless of the fact that it may not net any
gain--in fact, may not help them to gather enough facts for a lecture tour
when they return home."



Headquarters, Third Division,
September 5,1918.

MY DEAR MR. LEFFINGWELL:

Your letter of July 22d just received. It has, perhaps, been somewhat
delayed in reaching me, owing to the fact that I have recently been
transferred to another division. I only wish things had been so that I
might have granted you or a representative of the Salvation Army an
interview when I was in the States recently, but, being under orders, I
could wait for nothing. Whatever I may have said, in a casual way, of the
work of the Salvation Army in France, I assure you was all deserved. Your
organization has been doing a splendid work for the men of my former
division and other troops who have come in contact with it. I have often
remarked, as have many of the officers, that after the war the Salvation
Army is going to receive such a boom from the boys who have come in touch
with it over here that it will seem like a veritable propaganda! Why
shouldn't it? For your work has been conducted in such a quiet,
unostentatious, unselfish way that only a man whose sensibilities are dead
can fail to appreciate it. I have found several of your workers, whose
names at this moment I am unable to recall, putting up with all sorts of
hardships and inconveniences, working from daylight until well into the
night that the boys might be cheered in one way or another. Your shacks
have always been at the disposal of the chaplains for their regimental
services. Whether Mass for the Catholic chaplains or Holy Communion for an
Episcopalian chaplain, they always found a place to set up their altars in
the Salvation Army huts; and the Protestant chaplains, also the Jewish,
always, to my knowledge, were given its use for their services. I have
found your own services have been very acceptable to the boys, in general,
but perhaps your doughnut program, with hot coffee or chocolate, means as
much as anything. Not that, like those of old, we follow the Salvation
Army because we can get filled up, but we all like their spirit. More than
on one occasion do I know of troops moving at night--and pretty wet and
hungry--that have been warmed and fed and sent on their way with new
courage because of what some Salvation Army worker and hut furnished. And
as they went their way many fine things were said about the Salvation
Army. I am sure, as a result of this work, you have won the favor and
confidence of hundreds of these soldier lads, and, if I am not terribly
mistaken, when we get home the Salvation tambourine will receive greater
consideration than heretofore.

I am glad to express my feelings for your work. God bless you in it, and
always!

Sincerely yours,

LYMAN BOLLINS, Division Chaplain,
Headquarters, Third Division, A. E. F., via New York.



At the Front in France, June 12, 1918.

Commissioner Thomas Estill,
Salvation Army, Chicago.

MY DEAR COMMISSIONER:

We are engaged in a great battle. My time is all taken with our wounded
and dead. Still I cannot resist the temptation to take a few moments in
which to express our appreciation of the splendid aid given our soldiers
by the Salvation Army.

The work of the Salvation Army is not in duplication of that of any other
organization. It is entirely original and unique. It fills a long-felt
want. Some day the world will know the aid that you have rendered our
soldiers. Then you will receive every dollar you need.

Your work is also greatly appreciated by the French people. I have never
heard a single unfavorable comment on the Salvation Army. They are
respected everywhere. Their unselfish devotion to our well, sick, wounded
and dead is above any praise that I can bestow. God will surely greatly
reward them.

I heartily congratulate you on the class of workers you have sent over
here. I pray that your invaluable aid may be extended to our troops
everywhere. God bless you and yours,

In His name,
(Signed) THOMAS J. DICKSON,
Chaplain with rank of Major,
Sixth Field Artillery, First Division, U. S. Army.



An appreciation written concerning the first Salvation
Army chaplain that was appointed after the war started:

Camp Cody, New Mexico,

January 16, 1918.

Major E. C. Clemans,
136th Infantry, Camp Cody, N. M.

Commissioner Thomas Estill, Chicago, Ill.

I have been associated with the chaplain now for nearly four months. I
have found him a Christian soldier and gentleman. He is "on the job" all
the time and no Chaplain in this Division is doing more faithful and
effective work. He is thoroughly evangelistic, is burdened for the souls
of his men and is working for their salvation not in but from their sins.
He is a "man's man," knows how to approach men and knows how and does get
hold of their affections in such a way that he is a help and a comfort to
them. He brings things to pass.

The Salvation Army may be well pleased that it is so well represented in
the Army as it is by Chaplain Kline.

Sincerely yours,

(Signed) EZRA C. CLEMANS,
Senior Chaplain, 34th Division.



July 11, 1918.

I have been familiar with the work of the Salvation Army for years, and
the organization from the beginning of the war has been doing a wonderful
work with the Allied forces and since the entering of the United States
into the struggle has given splendid aid and coperation not only in
connection with the war activities at home but also with our forces
abroad. Their work is entitled to the sincere admiration of every American
citizen.

MAJOR EDWIN F. GLENN.



TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

It gives me the greatest pleasure to testify to the very excellent work of
the Salvation Army as I have seen it in this division. I have seen the
work done by this organization for ten months, under all sorts of
conditions, and it has always been of the highest character. At the start,
the Salvation Army was handicapped by lack of funds, but even under
adverse conditions, it did most valuable work in maintaining cheerful
recreation centres for the men, often in places exposed to hostile shell-
fire. The doughnut and pie supply has been maintained. This seems a little
thing, but it has gone a long way to keep the men cheerful. All the
Salvation Army force has been untiring in its work under very trying
conditions, and as a result, I believe it has gained the respect and
affection of officers and men more than any similar organization.

ALBERT J. MYERS, JR., Major, National Army.
1st Div., A. E. F. (Captain, Cavalry, U.S.A.)



Extract from letter from Captain Charles W. Albright:
Q. M., R. C., France.

"As to the Salvation Army, well, if they wanted our boys to lie down for
them to walk on, to keep their feet from getting muddy, the boys would
gladly do so.

"From everyone, officers and men alike, nothing but the highest praise is
given the Salvation Army. They are right in the thick of danger,
comforting and helping the men in the front line, heedless of shot, shell
or gas, the U. S. Army in France, as a unit, swears by the Salvation Army.

"I am proud to have a sister in their ranks."



An old regular army officer who returned to Paris last week said:

"I wish every American who has stood on street corners in America and
sneered at the work of the Salvation Army could see what they are doing
for the boys in France.

"They do not proclaim that they are here for investigation or for getting
atmosphere for War romances. They have not come to furnish material for
Broadway press agents. They do not wear, 'Oh, such becoming uniforms,'
white shoes, dainty blue capes and bonnets, nor do they frequent Paris tea
rooms where the swanky British and American officers put up.

"Take it from me, these women are doing almighty fine work. There are
twenty-two of them here in France. We army men have given them shell-
shattered and cast-off field kitchens to work with, and oh, man, the
doughnuts, the pancakes and the pies they turn out!

"I'm an old army officer, but what I like about the Salvation Army is that
it doesn't cater to officers. It is for the doughboys first, last and all
the time. The Salvation Army men do not wear Sam Browne belts; they do as
little handshaking with officers as possible.

"They cash the boys' checks without question, and during the month of
April in a certain division the Salvation Army sent home $20,000 for the
soldiers. The Rockefeller Foundation hasn't as yet given the Salvation
Army a million-dollar donation to carry on its work. Fact is, I don't know
just how the Salvation Army chaplains and lassies do get along. But get
along they do.

"Perhaps some of the boys and officers give them a lift now and then when
the sledding is rough. They don't aim to make a slight profit as do some
other organizations.

"Ever since Cornelius Hickey put up 'Hickey's Hut,' the first Salvation
Army hut in France, they have been working at a loss. I saw an American
officer give a Salvation Army chaplain 500 francs out of his pay at a
certain small town in France recently.

"The work done in 'Hickey's Hut' did much to endear the Salvation folks to
the doughboys. When a letter arrived in France some months ago addressed
only to 'Hickey's Hut, France,' it reached its destination _toute de
suite_, forty-eight hours after it arrived.

"The French climate has hit our boys hard. It is wet and penetratingly
cold. Goes right to the marrow, and three suits of underwear are no
protection against it. When the lads returned from training camp or the
trenches, wet, cold, hungry and despondent, they found a welcome in
'Hickey's Hut.'

"Not a patronizing, holier-than-thou, we-know-we-are-doing-a-good-work-
and-hope-you-doughboys-appreciate-it sort of a welcome, but a good old
Salvation Army, Bowery Mission welcome, such as Tim Sullivan knew how to
hand out in the old days.

"Around a warm fire with men who spoke their own language and who did not
pretend to be above them in the social scale the doughboys forgot that
they were four thousand miles from home and that they couldn't 'sling the
lingo.'

"I saw a group of lads on the Montdidier front who had not been paid in
three months, standing cursing their luck. They had no money, therefore,
they could not buy anything.

"The Salvation Army had been apprised by telegraph that the doughboys were
playing in hard luck. Presto! Out from Paris came a truck loaded with
everything to eat. The truck was unloaded and the boys paid for whatever
they wanted with slips of paper signed with their John Hancocks. The
Salvation Army lassies asked no questions, but accepted the slips of paper
as if they were Uncle Sam's gold.

"And one of the most useful institutions in Europe where war rages is one
that has no publicity bureau and has no horns to toot. This is the
Salvation Army. In the estimation of many, the Salvation Army goes way
ahead of the work of many of the other war organizations working here. I
see brave women and young women of the Salvation Army every day in places
that are really hazardous."



First Lieutenant Marion M. Marcus, Jr., Field Artillery,
wrote to one of our leading officers:

October 9, 1918.

"If the people at home could see the untiring and absolute devotion of the
workers of the Salvation Army, in serving and caring for our men, they
would more than give you the support you ask. The way the men and women
expose themselves to the dangers of the front lines and hardships has more
than endeared them to every member of the American Expeditionary Forces,
and they are always in the right spot with cheer of hot food and drink
when it is most appreciated."



EXTRACT FROM LETTER.

"Away up front where things break hard and rough for us, and we are hungry
and want something hot, we can usually find it in some old partly
destroyed building, which has been organized into a shack by--well, guess
--the Salvation Army.

"They are the soldier's friend. They make no display or show of any kind,
but they are fast winning a warm corner in the heart of everyone."



"I feel it is my duty to drop you a few lines to let you know how the boys
over here appreciate what the Salvation Army is doing for them. It is a
second home to us. There is always a cheerful welcome awaiting us there
and _I have yet to meet a sour-faced cleric behind the counter_. One
Salvation Army worker has his home in a cellar, located close to the
front-line trenches. He cheerfully carries on his wonderful work amid the
flying of shells and in danger of gas. He is one fine fellow, always
greeting you with a smile. He serves the boys with hot coffee every day,
free of charge, and many times he has divided his own bread with the tired
and hungry boys returning from the trenches. In the evening he serves
coffee and doughnuts at a small price. Say, who wouldn't be willing to
fight after feasting on that?

"In the many rest camps you will find the Salvation Army girls. They are
located so close to the front-line trenches that they have to wear their
gas masks in the slung position, and they also have their tin hats ready
to put on. The girls certainly are a fine, jolly bunch, and when it comes
to baking pies and doughnuts they are hard to beat. The boys line up a
half hour before time so as to be sure they get their share. I had the
pleasure of talking to a mother and her daughter and they told me they had
sold out everything they had to the boys with the exception of some salmon
and sardines on which they were living--salmon for dinner and sardines for
supper. They stood it all with big smiles and those smiles made me smile
when I thought of my troubles.

"In the trenches the boys become affected with body lice, known as
cooties. A good hot bath is the only real cure for them. While on the way
to a bath-house a Salvation Army worker overtook us. He was riding in a
Ford which had seen better days. The springs on it were about all in and
it made a noise like someone calling for mercy. The Salvation Army worker
pulled up in front of us and with a broad smile on his face said: "Room
for half a ton!" We did not need a second invitation and we soon had poor
Henry loaded down. I thought sure it would give out, but the worker only
laughed about it and kept on feeding the machine more gas as we cheered
until it started away with us.

"I want to tell you what the Salvation Army does for the moral side of the
soldier. The American soldier needs the guidance of God over here more
than he ever did in his whole life. Away from home and in a foreign land
in every corner, one must have Divine guidance to keep him on the narrow
path of life. If it was not for the _workers of God over here the boys
would gradually break away and then I'm afraid we would not have the right
kind of fighters to hold up our end_. Of course, prayers alone won't
satisfy the appetite of the American soldier, and the Salvation Army girls
get around that by baking for the boys. They believe in satisfying the
cravings of the stomach as well as the craving of the soul and mind. I
always enjoy the sermons at the Salvation Army. A good, every-day sermon
is always appreciated. The Salvation Army helps you along in their good
old way, and they don't believe in preaching all day on what you should do
and what you shouldn't do. The girls are a fine bunch of singers and their
singing is enjoyed very much by all of the boys. It is a treat to see an
American girl so close to the front and a still better treat to listen to
one sing.

"The Salvation Army does much good work in keeping the boys in the right
spirit so that they are glad to go back to the trenches when their turn
comes. There is no Salvation Army hut on this front. I often wish there
was one on every front. I believe the Salvation Army does not get its full
credit over in the States. Perhaps the people over there do not understand
the full meaning of the work it is doing over here. I want the Salvation
Army to know that it has all of the boys over here back of it and we want
to keep up the good work. We will go through hell, if necessary, because
we know the folks back home are back of us. We want the Salvation Army to
feel the same way. The _boys over here are really back of it and we want
you to continue your good work_."



"There is just one thing more I wish to speak of, and that is the little
old Salvation Army. You will never see me, nor any of the other boys over
here, laugh at their street services in the future, and if I see anyone
else doing that little thing that person is due for a busted head! I
haven't seen where they are raising a tenth the money some of the other
societies are, but they are the topnotchers of them all as the soldiers'
friend, and their handouts always come at the right time. Some of those
girls work as hard as we do."

"The Salvation Army over here is doing wonderful work. _They haven't any
shows or music, but they certainly know what pleases the boys most_,
and feed us with homemade apple pie or crullers, with lemonade--a great
big piece of pie or three crullers, with a large cup of lemonade, for a
franc (18-1/2 cents).

"These people are working like beavers, and the people in the States ought
to give them plenty of credit and appreciate their wonderful help to the
men over here."  "We were in a bomb-proof semi-dugout, in the heart of a
dense forest, within range of enemy guns, my Hebrew comrade and I. We were
talking of the fate that brought us here--of the conditions as we left
them at home. There was the thought of what 'might' happen if we were to
return to America minus a limb or an eye; we were discussing the great
economic and moral reform which is a certainty after the war, when through
the air came the harmonious strumming of a guitar accompanying a sweet,
feminine voice, and we heard:

  Lead, Kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom;
    Lead Thou me on;
  The night is dark and I am far from home,
    Lead Thou me on.
  Keep Thou my feet; I do not ask to see
    The distant scene--
  One step enough for me.

"It was the Salvation Army! In a desert of human hearts, many of them
wounded with heartache, these brave, brave servants of the Son of David
came to cheer us up and make life more bearable.

"In our outfit are Greeks, Italians, Bohemians, Irish, Jews--all of them
loyal Americans--and the Salvation Army serves each with an impartial
self-sacrifice which should forever still the voices of critics who
condemn sending Army lassies over here.

"Those in the ranks are men. The Salvation Army women are admired--almost
worshipped--but respected and safe. Men by the thousands would lay down
their lives for the Salvationists, and not till after the war will the
full results of this sacrifice by Salvation Army workers bear fruit. But
now, with so many strong temptations to go the wrong way, here are noble
girls roughing it, smiling at the hardships, singing songs, making
doughnuts for the doughboys, and always reminding us, even in danger, that
it is not all of 'life to live,' bringing to us recollections of our
mothers, sisters, and sweethearts, and if anyone questions, 'Is it worth
while?' the answer is: 'A thousand times yes!' and I cannot refrain from
sending my hearty thanks for all this service means to us.

"A few miles in back of us now, a half dozen Connecticut girls
representing the Salvation Army are doing their bit to make things
brighter for us, and say, maybe those girls cannot bake. Every day they
furnish us with real homemade crullers and pies at a small cost, and their
coffee, holy smoke! it makes me homesick to even write about it. The girls
have their headquarters in an old tumble-down building and they must have
some nerve, for the Boche keeps dropping shells all around them day and
night, and it would only take one of those shells to blow the whole outfit
into kingdom come."



In a letter from a private to his mother while he was lying wounded in the
hospital, he says of the Salvation Army and Red Cross:

"Most emphatically let me say that they both are giving real service to
the men here and both are worthy of any praise or help that can be given
them. This is especially so of the Salvation Army, because it is not fully
understood just what they are doing over here. They are the only ones
that, regardless of shells or gas, feed the boys in the trenches and bear
home to them the realization of what God really is at the very moment when
our brave lads are facing death. Their timely phrases about the Christ,
handed out with their doughnuts and coffee, have turned many faltering
souls back to the path and they will never forget it. 'Man's extremity is
God's opportunity' surely holds good here. You may not realize or think it
possible, but a large majority of the boys carry Bibles and there are
often heated arguments over the different phrases.

"I have just turned my pockets inside out and the tambourine could hold no
more, but it was all I had and I am still in debt to the Salvation Army.

"For hot coffee and cookies when I was shivering like an aspen, for
buttons and patches on my tattered uniform, for steering me clear of the
camp followers; but more than all for the cheery words of solace for those
'gone West,' for the blessed face of a woman from the homeland in the
midst of withering blight and desolation--for these I am indebted to the
Salvation Army."



CABLEGRAM.

Paris, December 17, 1917.

Commander Miss E. Booth,
120 W. 14th Street, New York, N. Y.

Being a Private, I am one of the many thousands who enjoy the kindnesses
and thoughtful recreation in the Salvation hut. The huts are always
crowded when the boys are off duty, for 'tis there we find warmth of body
and comradeship, pleasures in games and music, delight in the palatable
refreshments, knowledge in reading periodicals, convenience in the writing
material at our disposal, and other home-like touches for enjoyment. The
courtesy and good-will of the hut workers, combined with these good
things, makes the huts a resort of real comfort with the big thought of
salvation in Christ predominating over all. Appreciation of these huts,
and all they mean to the soldier in this terrible war, rises full in all
our hearts.

CLINTON SPENCER,
Private, Motor Action.

"I just used to love to listen to the Salvation Army at 6th and Penn
Streets, but I never dreamed of seeing them over here. And when I first
saw four girls cooking and baking all day I wondered what it was all
about.

"But I didn't have long to find out, for that night I saw these same girls
put on their gas masks at the alert and start for the trenches. Then I
started to ask about them. I never spoke to the girls, but fellows who had
been in the trenches told me that they came up under shell fire to give
the boys pies or doughnuts or little cakes or cocoa or whatever they had
made that day. I thought that great of the Salvation Army. And many a boy
who got help through them has a warm spot in his heart for them.

"You can see by the paper I write on who gave it to us. It is Salvation
Army paper. Altogether I say give three hearty cheers for the Salvation
Army and the girls who risk their own lives to give our boys a little
treat."



"I am going to crow about our real friends here--and it is the verdict of
all the boys--it is the Salvation Army, Joe. _That is the boys' mother
and father here. It is our home_. They have a treat for us boys every
night--that is, cookies, doughnuts or pie--about 9 o'clock. But that is
only a little of them. The big thing is the spirit--the feeling a boy gets
of being home when he enters the hut and meets the lassies and lads who
call themselves the soldiers of Christ, and we are proud to call them
brother soldiers. We think the world of them! So, Joe, whenever you get a
chance to do the Salvation Army a good turn, by word or deed, do so, as
thereby you will help us. When we get back we are going to be the
Salvation Army's big friend, and you will see it become one of the United
States' great organizations."

"My life as a soldier is not quite as easy as it was in Rochester, but
still I am not going to give up my religion, and I am not ashamed to let
the other fellows know that I belong to the Salvation Army. Sometimes they
try to get me to smoke or go and have a glass of beer with them, but I
tell them that I am a Salvationist. There are twenty fellows in a hut, so
they used to make fun at me when I used to say my prayers. Once in awhile
I used to have a _pair of shoes_ or a coat or something, thrown at
me. I used to think what I could do to stop them throwing things at me, so
I thought of a plan and waited. It was two or three nights before they
threw anything again. One night, as I was saying my prayers, someone threw
his shoes at me. After I got through I picked up the shoes and took out my
shoe brushes and polished and cleaned the shoes thrown at me, and from
that night to now I have never had a thing thrown at me. The fellow came
to me in a little while and said he was sorry he had thrown them. There
are four or five Salvationists in our company--one was a Captain in the
States. The Salvation Army has three big huts here among the soldier boys.
We have some nice meetings here, and they have reading-rooms and writing
and lunch-rooms, so I spend most of my time there."



LETTER OF COMMENDATION RE SALVATION ARMY.

U.S.S. Point Bonita,       15 October, 1918.

Miss Evangeline Booth, Commander,
Care of Salvation Army Headquarters,
14th Street, New York City.

DEAR MISS BOOTH:--

We want to thank you for presenting our crew with an elegant phonograph
and 25 records. We are all going to take up a collection and buy a lot of
records and I guess we will be able to pass the time away when we are not
on watch.

We have a few men in the crew who have made trips across on transports and
they say that every soldier and sailor has praised the Salvation Army way-
up-to-the-sky for all the many kindnesses shown them.

We also want to thank you for the kindness shown to one of our crew. The
Major who gave us the present was the best yet and so was the gentleman
who drove the auto about ten miles to our ship. That is the Salvation Army
all over. During the war or in times of peace, your organization reaches
the hearts of all.

We all would like to thank Mr. Leffingwell for his great kindness in
helping us.

The undersigned all have the warmest sort of feeling for you and the
Salvation Army.

Many, many thanks, from the ship's crew.



"I was down to the Salvation Army the other day helping them cook
doughnuts and they sure did taste good, and the fellows fairly go crazy to
get them, too. Anything that is homemade don't last long around here, and
when they get candy or anything sweet there is a line about a block long.

"Notice the paper this is written on? Well, I can't say enough about them.
They sure are a treat to us boys, and almost every night they have good
eats for us. One night it is lemonade, pies and coffee, and the next it is
doughnuts and coffee, and they are just like mother makes. There are two
girls here that run the place, and they are real American girls, too. The
first I have seen since I have been in France, and I'll say they are a
treat!

"Hogan and I have been helping them, and now I cook pies and doughnuts as
well as anyone. We sure do have a picnic with them and enjoy helping out
once in awhile. One thing I want you to do is to help the Salvation Army
all you can and whenever you get a chance to lend a helping hand to them
do it, for they sure have done a whole lot for your boy, and if you can
get them a write-up in the papers, why do it and I will be happy."



FROM LORD DERBY.

"The splendid work which the Salvation Army has done among the soldiers
during the war is one for which I, as Secretary of State for War, should
like to thank them most sincerely; it is a work which is deserving of all
support."



STATE OF NEW JERSEY
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT
TRENTON.

MY DEAR MR. BATTLE:      December 27, 1917.

I have learned of the campaign of the Salvation Army to raise money for
its war activities. The work of the Salvation Army is at all times
commendable and deserving, but particularly so in its relation to the war.

I sincerely hope that the campaign will be very successful.
Cordially yours,

(Signed) WALTER B. EDGE,

Mr. George Gordon Battle, Governor.
General Chairman, 37 Wall Street, New York City.



GOVERNOR CHARLES S. WHITMAN'S ADDRESS AT LUNCHEON
AT HOTEL TEN EYCK, ALBANY, NEW YORK, DECEMBER 8, 1917.

"I take especial pleasure in offering my tribute of respect and
appreciation to the Salvation Army. I have known of its work as intimately
as any man who is not directly connected with the organization. In my
position as a judge and a district attorney of New York City for many
years, I always found the Salvation Army a great help in solving the
various problems of the poor, the criminal and distressed.

"Frequently while other agencies, though good, hesitated, there was never
a case where there was a possibility that relief might be brought--never
was a case of misery or violence so low, that the Salvation Army would not
undertake it.

"The Salvation Army lends its manhood and womanhood to go 'Over There'
from our States, and our State, to labor with those who fight and die.
There is very little we can do, but we can help with our funds."



"The Salvation Army is worthy of the support of all right-thinking people.
Its main purpose is to reclaim men and women to decency and good
citizenship. This purpose is being prosecuted not only with energy and
enthusiasm but with rare tact and judgment.

"The sphere of the Army's operations has now been extended to the
battlefields of Europe, where its consecrated workers will coperate with
the Y.M.C.A., K. of C., and kindred organizations.

"It gives me pleasure to commend the work of this beneficent organization,
and to urge our people to remember its splendid service to humanity.

"Very truly yours,
"ALBERT E. SLEEPER,
"Governor."



Endorsement of January 25, 1918.
Governor Hugh M. Dorsey, of Georgia.

The Salvation Army has been a potent force for good everywhere, so far as
I know. They are rendering to our soldiers "somewhere in France" the most
invaluable aid, ministering not only to their spiritual needs, but caring
for them in a material way. This they have done without the blare of
trumpets.

Many commanding officers certify to the fact that the Salvation Army is
not only rendering most effective work, but that this work is of a
distinctive character and of a nature not covered by the activities of
other organizations ministering to the needs of the soldier boys. In other
words, they are filling that gap in the army life which they have always
so well filled in the civil life of our people.



STATE OF UTAH
EXECUTIVE OFFICE

Salt Lake City, January 21, 1918.

"I have learned with a great deal of interest of the splendid work being
done by the Salvation Army for the moral uplift of the soldiers, both in
the training camps and in the field. I am very glad to endorse this work
and to express the hope that the Salvation Army may find a way to continue
and extend its work among the soldiers."

(Signed) SIMON BAMBERG,
Governor.



FROM A PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR BRUMBAUGH.

To the People of Pennsylvania:

I have long since learned to believe in the great, good work of the
Salvation Army and have given it my approval and support through the
years. This mighty body of consecrated workers are like gleaners in the
fields of humanity. They seek and succor and save those that most need and
least receive aid.  Now, THEREFORE, I, Martin G. Brumbaugh, Governor of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, do cordially commend the work of the
Salvation Army and call upon our people to give earnest heed to their call
for assistance, making liberal donations to their praiseworthy work and
manifesting thus our continued and resolute purpose to give our men in
arms unstinted aid and to support gladly all these noble and sacrificing
agencies that under God give hope and help to our soldiers.

[SEAL]

GIVEN under my hand and the great seal of the State, at the City of
Harrisburg, this seventh day of February, in the year of our Lord one
thousand nine hundred and eighteen, and of the Commonwealth the one
hundred and forty-second.

By the Governor:
Secretary of the Commonwealth.
copy/h



The Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
Executive Department,
State House, Boston, February 15, 1918.

It gives me pleasure to add my word of approval to the very noble work
that is being done by the Salvation Army for the men now serving the
country. The Salvation Army has for many years been doing very valuable
work, and the extension of its labors into the ranks of the soldiers has
not lessened in any degree its power of accomplishment. The Salvation Army
can render most efficient service. It should be the aim of every one of us
in Massachusetts to assist in every way the work that is being done for
the soldiers. We cannot do too much of this kind of work for them--they
deserve and need it all. I urge everybody in Massachusetts to assist the
Salvation Army in every way possible, to the end that Massachusetts may
maintain her place in the forefront of the States of the Union who are
assisting the work of the Army.

(Signed) SAMUEL W. McCALL,
Governor.


PROCLAMATION.

To the People of the State of Maryland:

I have been very much impressed with the good work which is being done in
this country by the Salvation Army, and I am not at all surprised at the
great work which it is doing at the front, upon or near the battlefields
of Europe. It is doing not only the same kind of work being done by the
Y.M.C.A. and the Knights of Columbus, but work in fields decidedly their
own.

It is now undertaking to raise $1,000,000 for the National War
Service and it is preparing a hutment equipped with libraries, daily
newspapers, games, light refreshments, etc., in every camp in
France.

Now, THEREFORE, I, Emerson C. Harrington, Governor of Maryland,
believing that the effect and purposes for which the Salvation Army is
asking this money, are deserving of our warmest support, do hereby call
upon the people of Maryland to respond as liberally as they can in this
war drive being made by the Salvation Army to enable them more efficiently
to render service which is so much needed.

[The Great Seal of the State of Maryland]

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused to be hereto
affixed the Great Seal of Maryland at Annapolis, Maryland, this fourteenth
day of February, in the year one thousand nine hundred and eighteen.

EMERSON C. HARRINGTON.


By the Governor,
THOS. W. SIMMONS, Secretary of State.

"The Salvation Army is peculiarly equipped for this kind of service. I
have watched the career of this organization for many years, and I know
its leaders to be devoted and capable men and women.

"Of course, any agency which can in any way ameliorate the condition of
the boys at the front should receive encouragement."

(Signed) FRANK C. LOWDEN,
Governor of Illinois.



"I join with thousands of my fellow citizens in having a great admiration
for the splendid work which has already been accomplished by the Salvation
Army in the alleviation of suffering, the spiritual uplift of the masses,
and its substantial and prayerful ministrations.

"The Salvation Army does its work quietly, carefully, persistently and
effectively. Our patriotic citizenry will quickly place the stamp of
approval upon the great work being done by the Salvation Army among the
private soldiers at home and abroad."

(Signed) Governor BROUGH of Arkansas.

Lansing, Michigan, June 13, 1918.



TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

Among the various organizations doing war work in connection with the
American Army, none are found more worthy of support than the Salvation
Army. Entering into its work with the whole-hearted zeal which has
characterized its movement in times of peace, it has won the highest
praise of both officers and soldiers alike.

It is an essential pleasure to commend the work of the Salvation Army to
the people of Michigan with the urgent request that its war activities be
given your generous support.

ALBERT E. SLEEPER,
Governor of the State of Michigan.

MARK E. McKEE,
Secretary, Counties Division, Michigan War Board.



STATE OF KANSAS
ARTHUR CAPPER, GOVERNOR,
TOPEKA

August 8, 1917.

I have been greatly pleased with the war activities of the Salvation Army
and want to express my appreciation of the splendid service rendered by
that organization on the battlefield of Europe ever since the war began.
It is a most commendable and a most patriotic thing to do and I hope the
people of Kansas will give the enterprise their generous support.

Very respectfully,
(Signed) ARTHUR CAPPER, Governor.



"Best wishes for the success of your work. As the Salvation Army has done
so much good in time of peace, it has multiplied opportunities to do good
in the horrors of war, if given the necessary means."

(Signed) MILES POINDEXTER,
Senator from Washington.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WASHINGTON, D. C.


January 8, 1918.

Colonel Adam Gifford, Salvation Army,
8 East Brookline Street, Boston, Mass.

MY DEAR COLONEL GIFFORD:

I desire to write you in highest commendation of the work the Salvation
Army is doing in France. During last November I was behind the French and
English fronts, and unless one has been there they cannot realize the
assistance to spirit and courage given to the soldiers by the "hut"
service of the Salvation Army.

The only particular in which the Salvation Army fell short was that there
were not sufficient huts for the demands of the troops. The huts I saw
were crowded and not commodious.

Behind the British front I heard several officers state that the service
of the Salvation Army was somewhat different from other services of the
same kind, but most effective.

With kindest regards, I remain,
Very sincerely yours,

(Signed) GEOEGE HOLDEN TINKHAM,
Congressman.



This Condolence Card conveyed the sympathy of the Commander to the friends
of the fallen. Forethought had prepared this some time before the first
American had made the supreme sacrifice.

[Illustration (Condolence Card):
GREATER LOVE HATH NO MAN THAN THIS, THAT

122 W. 14th Street New York

My dear Friend:

I must on behalf of The Salvation Army, take this opportunity to say how
deeply and truly we share your grief at this time of your bereavement. It
will be hard for you to understand how anything can soothe the pain made
by your great loss, but let me point you to the one Jesus Christ, who
acquainted Himself with all our griefs so that He might heal the heart's
wounds made by our sorrows and whose love for us was so vast that He bled
and died to save us.

It may be some solace to think that your loved one poured out his life in
a War in which high and holy principles are involved, and also that he was
quick to answer the call for men.

Believe me when I say that we are praying and will pray for you.

Yours in sympathy.

(Signed) Evangeline Booth
COMMANDER

A MAN LAY DOWN HIS LIFE FOR HIS FRIENDS]



"COMMANDER EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"The comfort and solace contained in the beautiful card of sympathy I
recently received from you is more than you can ever know. With all my
heart I am very grateful to you and can only assure you feebly of my deep
appreciation.

"It has made me realize more than ever before the fundamental principles
of Christianity upon which your Army is built and organized, for how truly
does it comfort the widow and fatherless in their affliction.

"Tucked away as my two babies and I are in a tiny Wisconsin town, we felt
that our grief, while shared in by our good friends, was just a passing
emotion to the rest of the world. But when a card such as yours comes,
extending a heart of sympathy and prayer and ferrets us out in our sorrow
in our little town, you must know how much less lonely we are because of
it. It surely shows us that a sacrifice such as my dear husband made is
acknowledged and lauded by the entire world.

"I am, oh! so proud of him, so comforted to know I was wife to a man so
imbued with the principles of right and justice that he counted no
sacrifice, not even his life, too great to offer in the cause. Not for
anything would I ask him back or rob him of the glory of such a death. Yet
our little home is sad indeed, with its light and life taken away.

"The good you have done before and during the war must be a very great
source of gratification for you, and I trust you may be spared for many
years to stretch out your helping hand to the sorrowing and make us better
for having known you.

With deepest gratitude,"



"COMMANDER EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"I have just seen your picture in the November _Pictorial Review_ and
I do so greatly admire your splendid character and the great work you are
doing.

"I want to thank you for the message of Christian love and sympathy you
sent to me upon the death of my son in July, aeroplane accident in
England.

"Without the Christian's faith and the blessed hope of the Gospel we would
despair indeed. A long time ago I learned to pray Thy will be done for my
son--and I have tested the promises and I have found them true.

"May the Lord bless you abundantly in your own heart and in your world
wide influence and the splendid Salvation Army."



"DEAR FRIENDS:

"Words fall far short in expressing our deep appreciation of your
comforting words of condolence and sympathy. Will you accept as a small
token of love the enclosed appreciation written by Professor --------- of
the Oberlin College, and a quotation from a letter written August 25th by
our soldier boy, and found among his effects to be opened only in case of
his death, and forwarded to his mother?

I am
Yours truly,"


Enclosure:

"November 16, 1918.

"If by any chance this letter should be given to you, as something coming
directly from my heart; you, who are my mother, need have no fear or
regret for the personality destined not to come back to you.

"A mother and father, whose noble ideals they firmly fixed in two sons
should rather experience a deep sense of pride that the young chap of
nearly twenty-one years does not come back to them; for, though he was
fond of living, he was also prepared to die with a faith as sound and
steadfast as that of the little children whom the Master took in His arms.

"And more than that, the body you gave to me so sweet and pure and strong,
though misused at times, has been returned to God as pure and undefiled as
when you gave it to me. I think there is nothing that should please you
more than that.

  "In My Father's House are many mansions,
  I go to prepare a place for you;
  If it were not so, I would have told you.

"Your Baby boy,"
(Signed) PAUL.
Chatereaux, France.
August, 1918.

N. B.--Written on back of the envelope:
"To be opened only in case of accident."


"COMMANDER EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"Permit me to express through you my deep appreciation of the consoling
message from the Salvation Army on the loss of my brother, Clement, in
France. I am indeed grateful for this last thought from an organization
which did so much to meet his living needs and to lessen the hardships of
his service in France. I shall always feel a personal debt to those of you
who seemed so near to him at the end."



"Miss EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"I was greatly touched by the card of sympathy sent me in your name on the
occasion of my great sorrow--and my equally great glory. The death of a
husband for the great cause of humanity is a martyrdom that any soldier's
wife, even in her deep grief, is proud to share.

"Thanking you for your helpful message,"



"Miss EVANGELINE BOOTH:

"Of the many cards of condolence received by our family upon the death of
my dear brother, none touched us more deeply than the one sent by you.

"We do indeed appreciate your thoughtfulness in sending words of comfort
to people who are utter strangers to you.

"Accept again, the gratitude of my parents as well as the other members of
our family, including myself.

"May our Heavenly Father bless you all and glorify your good works."

Miss Evangeline Booth,

Commander of the Salvation Army, New York City,
N. Y.

DEAR MISS BOOTH:

I beg of you to pardon me for writing you this letter, but I feel that I
must. On the 17th day of March I received a letter from my boy in France,
and it reads as follows:

"Somewhere in France, Jan. 15, 1918.
"MY DEAR MOTHER:

"I must write you a few lines to tell you that you must not worry about me
even though it is some time since I wrote you. We don't have much time to
ourselves out here. I have just come out of the trenches, and now it is
mud, mud, mud, up to one's knees. I often think of the fireplace at home
these cold nights, but, mother, I must tell you that I don't know what we
boys would do if it was not for the Salvation Army. The women, they are
just like mothers to the boys. God help the ones that say anything but
good about the Army! Those women certainly have courage, to come right out
in the trenches with coffee and cocoa, etc., and they are so kind and
good. Mother, I want you to write to Miss Booth and thank her for me for
her splendid work out here. When I come home I shall exchange the U. S.
uniform for the S.A. uniform, and I know, ma, that you will not object.
Well, the Germans have been raining shells to-day, but we were unharmed. I
passed by an old shack of a building--a poor woman sat there with a baby,
lulling it to sleep, when a shell came down and the poor souls had passed
from this earthly hell to their heavenly reward. Only God knows the
conditions out here; it is horrible. Well, I must close now, and don't
worry, mother, I will be home some day.

"Your loving son,"

Well, Miss Booth, I got word three weeks ago that Joseph had been killed
in action. I am heart-broken, but I suppose it was God's will. Poor boy!
He has his uniform exchanged for a white robe. I am all alone now, as he
was my only boy and only child. Again I beg of you to pardon me for
sending you this letter.



December 10, 1917.

Commander Evangeline C. Booth, New York City.

MY DEAR COMMANDER:

I have just read in the New York papers of your purpose and plan to raise
a million dollars for your Salvation Army work carried on in the interests
of the soldiers at home and abroad, and I cannot refrain from writing to
you to express my deep interest, and also the hope that you may be
successful in raising this fund, because I know that it will be so well
administered.

From all that I have heard of the Salvation Army work in connection with
the soldiers carried on under your direction, I think it is simply
wonderful, and if there is any service that I can render you or the Army,
I should be exceedingly pleased.

I have read "Souls in Khaki," and I wish that everyone might read it, for
could they do so, your million-dollar fund would be easily raised.

With ever-increasing interest in the Salvation Army, I am,     Cordially
yours,

(Signed) J. WILBUR CHAPMAN.
Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church in the U.S.A.


SALVATION ARMY IS THE MOST POPULAR ORGANIZATION
IN FRANCE.

Raymond B. Fosdick, chairman of the War Recreation Commission, on his
return from a tour of investigation into activities of the relief
organizations in France, gave out the following:

"Somewhat to my surprise I found the Salvation Army probably the most
popular organization in France with the troops. It has not undertaken the
comprehensive program which the Y.M.C.A. has laid out for itself; that is,
it is operating in three or four divisions, while the Y. M. C. A. is
aiming to cover every unit of troops.

"But its simple, homely, unadorned service seems to have touched the
hearts of our men. The aim of the organization is, if possible, to put a
worker and his wife in a canteen or a centre. The women spend their time
making doughnuts and pies, and sew on buttons. The men make themselves
generally useful in any way which their service can be applied.

"I saw such placed in dugouts way up at the front, where the German shells
screamed over our heads with a sound not unlike a freight train crossing a
bridge. Down in their dugouts the Salvation Army folks imperturbably
handed out doughnuts and dished out the 'drink.'"



WAR DEPARTMENT
COMMISSION ON TRAINING CAMP ACTIVITIES, WASHINGTON

45, Avenue Montaigne, Paris.

Commander Evangeline Booth, Apr. 8, 1919.
Salvation Army, New York City.

MY DEAR COMMANDER BOOTH:

The work of the Salvation Army with the armed forces of the United States
does not need any word of commendation from me. Perhaps I may be permitted
to say, however, that as a representative of the War and Navy Departments
I have been closely in touch with it from its inception, both in Europe
and in the United States. I do not believe there is a doughboy anywhere
who does not speak of it with enthusiasm and affection. Its remarkable
success has been due solely to the unselfish spirit of service which has
underlain it. Nothing has been too humble or too lowly for the Salvation
Army representative to do for the soldier. Without ostentation, without
advertising, without any emphasis upon auspices or organization, your
people have met the men of the Army as friends and companions-in-arms, and
the soldiers, particularly those of the American Expeditionary Force, will
never forget what you have done.

Faithfully yours,
(Signed) RAYMOND B. FOSDICK.



From Honorable Arthur Stanley,
Chairman British Red Cross Society.

BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY
JOINT WAR COMMITTEE

83 Pall Mall, London, S. W.,

December 22, 1917.

General Bramwell Booth.

DEAR GENERAL BOOTH:

I enclose formal receipt for the cheque, value 2000, which was handed to
me by your representative. I note that it is a contribution from the
Salvation Army to the Joint Funds to provide a new Salvation Army Motor
Ambulance Unit on the same conditions as before.

I cannot sufficiently thank you and the Salvation Army for this very
generous donation.

I am indeed glad to know that you are providing another twenty drivers for
service with our Ambulance Fleet in France. This is most welcome news, as
whenever Salvation Army men are helping we hear nothing but good reports
of their work. Sir Ernest Clarke tells me that your Ambulance Sections are
quite the best of any in our service, and the more Salvation Army men you
can send him, the better he will be pleased. I would again take this
opportunity of congratulating you, which I do with all my heart, upon the
splendid record of your Army.

Yours sincerely,

(Signed) ARTHUR STANLEY.



Extract from Judge Ben Lindsey's picture of the Salvation Army at the
Front:

"A good expression for American enthusiasm is: 'I am crazy about'--this,
or that, or the other thing that excites our admiration. Well, 'I am crazy
about the Salvation Army'--the Salvation Army as I saw it and mingled with
it and the doughboys in the trenches. And when I happened to be passing
through Chicago to-day and saw an appeal in the _Tribune_ for the
Salvation Army, I remembered what our boys so often shouted out to me as I
passed them in the trenches and back of the lines: 'Judge, when you get
back home tell the folks not to forget the Salvation Army. They're the
real thing.'

 "And I know they are the real thing. I have shared with the boys the
doughnuts and chocolate and coffee that seemed to be so much better than
any other doughnuts or coffee or chocolate I have ever tasted before. And
when it seemed so wonderful to me after just a mild sort of experience
down a shell-swept road, through the damp and cold of a French winter day,
what must it be to those boys after trench raids or red-hot scraps down
rain-soaked trenches under the wet mists of No Man's Land?... Listen to
some of the stories the boys told me: 'You see, Judge, the good old
Salvation Army is the real thing. They don't put on no airs. There ain't
no flub-dub about them and you don't see their mugs in the fancy magazines
much. Why, you never would see one of them in Paris around the hotels.
You'd never know they existed, Judge, unless you came right up here to the
front lines as near as the Colonel will let you!'

"And one enthusiastic urchin said: 'Why, Judge, after the battle
yesterday, we couldn't get those women out of the village till they'd seen
every fellow had at least a dozen fried cakes and all the coffee or
chocolate he could pile in. We just had to drag 'em out--for the boys love
'em too much to lose 'em--we weren't going to take no chances--not much--
for our Salvation ladies!'"


HARRY LAUDER'S ENDORSEMENT.

In speaking of the Salvation Army's work before the Rotary Club of San
Francisco, Harry Lauder said:

"There is no organization in Europe doing more for the troops than the
Salvation Army, and the devotion of its officers has caused the Salvation
Army to be revered by the soldiers."

Mr. Otto Kahn, one of America's most prominent bankers, upon his return to
this country after a tour through the American lines in France, writes,
among other things:

"I should particularly consider myself remiss if I did not refer with
sincere admiration to the devoted, sympathetic, and most efficient work of
the Salvation Army, which, though limited in its activities to a few
sectors only, has won the warm and affectionate regard of those of our
troops with whom it has been in contact."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. David Lawrence, special Washington correspondent of the _New York
Evening Post_ and other influential papers, in an article in which he
comments on the work of all the relief agencies, says of the Salvation
Army in France:

"Curiously enough the Salvation Army is spoken of in all official reports
as the organization most popular with the troops. Its organization is the
smallest of all four. Its service is simple and unadorned. It specializes
on doughnuts and pie, which it gives away free whenever the ingredients of
the manufacture of those articles are at hand.

"_The policy of the organization_ is to place a worker and his wife,
if possible, with a unit of troops. The woman makes doughnuts and sews on
buttons, while the man helps the soldiers in any way he can.

"_The success of the Salvation Army_ is attributed by commanding
officers to the fact that the workers know how to mix naturally. _In
other cases there had been sometimes an air of condescension not unlike
that of the professional settlement house worker_."

       *       *       *       *       *

In a recent issue of the _Saturday Evening Post_, Mr. Irvin Cobb, who
has just returned from France, has this to say of the Salvation  Army:

"Right here seems a good-enough place for me to slip in a few words of
approbation for the work which another organization has accomplished in
France since we put our men into the field. Nobody asked me to speak in
its favor because, so far as I can find out, it has no publicity
department. I am referring to the Salvation Army. May it live forever for
the service which, without price and without any boasting on the part of
its personnel, it is rendering to our boys in France!

"A good many of us who hadn't enough religion, and a good many more of us
who, mayhap, had too much religion, looked rather contemptuously upon the
methods of the Salvationists. Some have gone so far as to intimate that
the Salvation Army was vulgar in its methods and lacking in dignity and
even in reverence. Some have intimated that converting a sinner to the tap
of a bass drum or the tinkle of a tambourine was an improper process
altogether. Never again, though, shall I hear the blare of the cornet as
it cuts into the chorus of hallelujah whoops, where a ring of blue-
bonneted women and blue-capped men stand exhorting on a city street-corner
under the gaslights, without recalling what some of their enrolled
brethren--and sisters--have done, and are doing, in Europe!

"The American Salvation Army in France is small, but, believe me, it is
powerfully busy! Its war delegation came over without any fanfare of the
trumpets of publicity. It has no paid press agents here and no impressive
headquarters. There are no well-known names, other than the names of its
executive heads, on its rosters or on its advisory boards. None of its
members are housed at an expensive hotel and none of them have handsome
automobiles in which to travel about from place to place. No campaigns to
raise nation-wide millions of dollars for the cost of its ministrations
overseas were ever held at home. I imagine it is the pennies of the poor
that mainly fill its war chest. I imagine, too, that sometimes its
finances are an uncertain quantity. Incidentally, I am assured that not
one of its male workers here is of draft age unless he holds exemption
papers to prove his physical unfitness for military service. The
Salvationists are taking care to purge themselves of any suspicion that
potential slackers have joined their ranks in order to avoid the
possibility of having to perform duties in khaki.

"Among officers, as well as among enlisted men, one occasionally hears
criticism--which may or may not be based on a fair judgment--for certain
branches of certain activities of certain organizations. But I have yet to
meet any soldier, whether a brigadier or a private, who, if he spoke at
all of the Salvation Army, did not speak in terms of fervent gratitude for
the aid that the Salvationists are rendering so unostentatiously and yet
so very effectively. Let a sizable body of troops move from one station to
another, and hard on its heels there came a squad of men and women of the
Salvation Army. An army truck may bring them, or it may be they have a
battered jitney to move them and their scanty outfits. Usually they do not
ask for help from anyone in reaching their destinations. They find
lodgment in a wrecked shell of a house or in the corner of a barn. By main
force and awkwardness they set up their equipment, and very soon the word
has spread among the troops that at such and such a place the Salvation
Army is serving free hot drinks and free doughnuts and free pies. It
specializes in doughnuts--the Salvation Army in the field does--the real
old-fashioned home-made ones that taste of home to a homesick soldier boy!

"I did not see this, but one of my associates did. He saw it last winter
in a dismal place on the Toul sector. A file of our troops were finishing
a long hike through rain and snow over roads knee-deep in half-thawed icy
slush. Cold and wet and miserable they came tramping into a cheerless,
half-empty town within sound and range of the German guns. They found a
reception committee awaiting them there--in the person of two Salvation
Army lassies and a Salvation Army Captain. The women had a fire going in
the dilapidated oven of a vanished villager's kitchen. One of them was
rolling out the batter on a plank, with an old wine-bottle for a rolling
pin, and using the top of a tin can to cut the dough into circular strips;
the other woman was cooking the doughnuts, and as fast as they were cooked
the man served them out, spitting hot, to hungry, wet boys clamoring about
the door, and nobody was asked to pay a cent!

"At the risk of giving mortal affront to ultradoctrinal practitioners of
applied theology, I am firmly committed to the belief that by the grace
and the grease of those doughnuts those three humble benefactors that day
strengthened their right to a place in the Heavenly Kingdom."



MY DEAR COLONEL JENKINS:

I take pleasure in sending you a copy of my report as Commissioner to
France, in which I made reference to the work of the Salvation Army with
our American Expeditionary Forces.

I cannot recall ever hearing the slightest criticism of the work of the
Salvation Army, but I heard many words of enthusiastic appreciation on the
part not only of the Generals and officers but of the soldiers.

I saw many evidences showing that the unselfish, sometimes reckless,
abandon of your workers had a great effect upon our men.

I am sure that the Salvation Army also stands in high respect for its
religious influence upon the men.

It was pleasant still further to hear such words of appreciation as I did
from General Duncan regarding the work of Chaplain Allan, the divisional
chaplain of General Duncan's unit. He has evidently risen to his work in a
splendid way. It is a pleasure to have this opportunity of rendering this
testimony to you.

Faithfully yours,

CHARLES S. MACFARLAND,
General Secretary.



The _New York Globe_ printed the following:

HUNS DON'T STOP SALVATION ARMY. MEETING HELD IN
DEEP DUGOUT UNDER RUINED VILLAGE--MANDOLIN
SUPPLANTS THE ORGAN.

By Herbert Corey.

JUST BEHIND THE SOMME FRONT, May 3l.--Somewhere in the tangle of smashed
walls there was a steely jingle. At first the sound was hard to identify,
so odd are acoustics in this which was once a little town. There were stub
ends of walls here and there--bare, raw snags of walls sticking up--and
now and then a rooftree tilted pathetically against a ruin, or a pile of
dusty masonry that had been a house. A little path ran through this
tangle, and under an arched gateway that by a miracle remained standing
and down the steps of a dugout. The jingling sound became recognizable.
Some one was trying to play on a mandolin:

"Jesus, Lover of My Soul."

It was grotesque and laughable. The grand old hymn refused its cadences to
this instrument of a tune-loving bourgeoise. It seemed to stand aloof and
unconquered. This is a hymn for the swelling notes of an organ or for the
great harmonies of a choir. It was not made to be debased by association
with this caterwauling wood and wire, this sounding board for barbershop
chords, this accomplice of sick lovers leaning on village fences. Then
there came a voice:

"By gollies, brother, you're getting it! I actually believe you're getting
it, brother. We'll have a swell meeting to-night."

I went down the steps into the Salvation Army man's dugout. A large
soldier, cigarette depending from his lower lip, unshaven, tin hat tipped
on the back of his head, was picking away at the wires of the mandolin
with fingers that seemed as thick and yellow as ears of corn. As I came in
he stated profanely, that these dam' things were not made to pick out
condemn' hymn tunes on. The Salvation Army man encouraged him:

"You keep on, brother," said he, "and we'll have a fine meeting for the
Brigadier when he comes in to-night."


TAKING HIS CHANCES.

Another boy was sitting there, his head rather low. The mandolin player
indicated him with a jerk. "He got all roughed up last night," said he.
"We found a bottle of some sweet stuff these Frogs left in the house where
we're billeted. Tasted a good deal like syrup. But it sure put Bull out."

Bull turned a pair of inflamed eyes on the musician.

"You keep on a-talkin', and I'll hang somep'n on your eye," said Bull,
hoarsely.

Then he replaced his head in his hands. The Salvation Army man laughed at
the interlude and then returned to the player.

"See," said he, "it goes like this----" He hummed the wonderful old hymn.

The floor of the dugout was covered with straw. The stairs which led to it
were wide, so that at certain hours the sun shone in and dried out the
walls. There were few slugs crawling slimily on the walls of the Salvation
Army's place. Rats were there, of course, and bugs of sorts, but few
slugs. On the whole it was considered a good dugout, because of these
things. The roof was not a strong one, it seemed to me. A 77-shell would
go through it like a knife through cheese. I said so to the Salvation Army
man.

"Aw, brother," said he. "We've got to take our chances along with the
rest."

At the foot of the stairs was a table on which were the few things the
Salvation Army man had to sell, up here under the guns. There were some
figs and a handful of black licorice drops and a few nuts. Boys kept
coming in and demanding cookies. Cookies there were none, but there was
hope ahead. If the Brigadier managed to get in to-night with the fliv,
there might be cookies.


NO MONEY, BUT GOOD CHEER.

"Just our luck," said some morose doughboy, "if a shell hit the fliv. It's
a hell of a road----"

"No shell has hit it yet, brother," said the Salvation Army man, cheerily.

Fifteen dollars would have bought everything he had in stock. One could
have carried away the whole stock in the pockets of an army overcoat. The
Salvation Army has no money, you know. It is hard to buy supplies for
canteens over here, unless a pocket filled with money is doing the buying.
The Salvation Army must pick up its stuff where it can get it. Yesterday
there had been sardines and shaving soap and tin watches. To-day there
were only figs and licorice drops and nuts.

"But if the Brigadier gets in," said the Salvation Army man, "there will
be something sweet to eat. And we'll have a little meeting of song and
praise, brother--just to thank God for the chance he has given us to
help."

Here there is no one else to serve the boys. Other organizations have more
money and more men, but for some reason they have not seen fit to come to
this which was once a town. Shells fall into it from six directions all
day and all night long. Now and then it is gassed. A few kilometres away
is the German line. One reaches town over a road which is nightly torn to
pieces by high explosives. No one comes here voluntarily, and no one stays
willingly--except the Salvation Army man. He's here for keeps.

Men come down into his little dugout to play checkers and dominoes and buy
sweet things to eat. He is here to help them spiritually as well as
physically and they know it, and yet they do not hear him. He talks to
them just as they talk to each other, except that he does not swear and he
does not tell stories that have too much of a tang. He never obtrudes his
religion on them. Just once in a while--on the nights the Brigadier gets
in--there is a little song and praise meeting. They thank God for the
chance they have to help.

That night the Brigadier got in with his cookies and chocolates and his
message that salvation is free. Perhaps a dozen men sat around
uncomfortably in the little dugout and listened to him. The man of the
mandolin had refused at the last moment. He said he would be dam' if he
could play a hymn tune on that thing. But the old hymn quavered cheerily
out of the little dugout into the shell-torn night. The husky voices of
the Brigadier and the Ensign and Holy Joe carried it on, while the little
audience sat mute.

  While the nearer waters roll,
  While the tempest still is high.

Then there was a little prayer and a few straight, cordial words from the
Brigadier and then, somewhere in that perilous night outside, "taps"
sounded and the men were off to bed. They had no word of thanks as they
shook hands on parting. They did not speak to each other as they picked
their way along the path through the ruins. But when they reached the
street some one said very profanely and very earnestly:

"I can lick any man's son who says THEY ain't all right."



"I have just received your letter of the 30th of July, and it has cheered
my heart to know you take an interest in a poor Belgian prisoner of war.

"Since I wrote to you last we have been changed to another camp; the one
we are now in is quite a nice camp, with lots of flowers, and we are
allowed more freedom, but it is very bad regarding food. We have so very
little to eat, it is a pity we can't eat flowers! We rise up hungry and go
to bed hungry, and all day long we are trying to still the craving for
food. So you will understand the longing there is in our hearts to once
again be free--to be able to go to work and earn our daily bread! But the
one great comfort that I find is since I learned to know Jesus as my
Saviour and Friend I can better endure the trials and even rejoice that I
am called to suffer for His sake, and while around me I see many who are
in despair--some even cursing God for all the misery in which we are
surrounded, some trying to be brave, some giving up altogether--yet to a
number of us has come the Gospel message, brought by the Salvation Army,
and I am so glad that I, for one, listened and surrendered my life to this
Jesus! Now I have real peace, and He walks with me and gives me grace to
conquer the evil.

"When I lived in Belgium I was very worldly and sinful--I lived for
pleasure and drink and sin. I did not then know of One who said, 'Come
unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest.'
I did not know anything about living a Christian life, but now it is all
changed and I am so thankful! Salvation Army officers visit us and bring
words of cheer and blessing and comfort. You will be glad to know that I
have applied to our Commissioner to become a Salvation Army officer when
the war is over. I want to go to my poor little stricken country and tell
my people of this wonderful Saviour that can save from all sin!

"On behalf of my comrades and myself, I want to thank the American nation
for all they have done, and are still doing, for my people. May God bless
you all for it, and may He grant that before long there will be peace on
earth!

"I remain, faithfully yours,

"REMY MEERSMAN."



THE "STARS AND STRIPES" SPEAKS FROM FRANCE FOR THE
SALVATION ARMY.

A copy of the "Stars and Stripes," the official publication of the
American Expeditionary Forces published in Prance by the American soldiers
themselves, just received in Chicago, contains the following:

"Perhaps in the old days when war and your home town seemed as far apart
as Paris, France, and Paris, Ill., you were a superior person who used to
snicker when you passed a street corner where a small Salvation Army band
was holding forth. Perhaps--Heaven forgive you--you even sneered a little
when you heard the bespectacled sister in the poke-bonnet bang her
tambourine and raise a shrill voice to the strains of 'Oh death, where is
thy sting-a-ling.' Probably--unless you yourself had known the bitterness
of one who finds himself alone, hungry and homeless in a big city--you did
not know much about the Salvation Army.

Well, we are all homeless over here and every American soldier will take
back with him a new affection and a new respect for the Salvation Army.
Many will carry with them the memories of a cheering word and a friendly
cruller received in one of the huts nearest of all to the trenches. There
the old slogan of 'Soup and Salvation' has given way to 'Pies and Piety.'
It might be 'Doughnuts and Doughboys.' These huts pitched within the shock
of the German guns, are ramshackle and bare and few, for no organization
can grow rich on the pennies and nickels that are tossed into the
tambourines at the street-corners of the world. But they are doing a work
that the soldiers themselves will never forget, and it is an especial
pleasure to say so here, because the Salvation Army, being much too simple
and old-fashioned to know the uses of advertisement, have never asked us
to. You, however, can testify for them. Perhaps you do in your letters
home. And surely when you are back there and you pass once more a
'meeting' at the curb, you will not snicker. You will tarry awhile--and
take off your hat."



We have received a letter from Mr. Lewis Strauss, Secretary to Mr. Herbert
Hoover, who has just returned from France, and he says that Mr. Hoover's
time while in Europe was spent almost wholly in London and Paris, and that
he had no opportunity for observing our War Relief Work at the front. The
concluding paragraph of the letter, however, is as follows:

"Mr. Hoover has frequently heard the most complimentary reports of the
invaluable work which your organization is performing in invariably the
most perilous localities, and he is filled with admiration for those who
are conducting it at the front."


THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE (MAY 17, 1918), QUOTING FROM THE
ABOVE, ALSO SPEAKS EDITORIALLY.

The acid test of any service done for our soldiers in France is the value
the men themselves place upon it. No matter how excellent our intentions,
we cannot be satisfied with the result if the soldiers are not satisfied.
Without suggesting any invidious distinctions among organizations that are
working at the front, it is nevertheless a pleasure to record that the
Salvation Army stands very high in the regard of American soldiers.

The evidence of the Salvation Army's excellent work comes from many
sources.




APPENDIX.

A Few Facts about the Salvation Army



It has been truly said that within four days after the German Army entered
Belgium, another Army entered also--the Salvation Army! One came to
destroy, the other to relieve distress and minister to the wounded and
dying.

The British Salvation Army furnished a number of Red Cross Ambulances,
manned by Salvationists when the Red Cross was in great need of such. When
these arrived in France and people first saw the big cars with the
"Salvation Army" label it attracted a good deal of attention. The drivers
wore the Red Cross uniform, and were under its military rules, but wore on
their caps the red band with the words, "Salvation Army."

There is a story of a young officer in sportive mood who left a group of
his companions and stepped out into the street to stop one of these
ambulances:

"Hello! Salvation Army!" he cried. "Are you taking those men to heaven?"

Amid the derisive laughter of the officers on the sidewalk the
Salvationist replied pleasantly:

"I cannot say I am taking them to heaven, but I certainly am taking them
away from the other place."

One of the good British Salvationists wrote of meeting our American boys
in England. He said:

"Oh, these American soldiers! One meets them in twos and threes, all over
the city, everlastingly asking questions, by word of mouth and by wide-
open trustful eyes, and they make a bee-line for the Salvation Army
uniform on sight. I passed a company of them on the march across London,
from one railroad station to another, the other, day. They were obviously
interested in the sights of the city streets as they passed through at
noon, but as they drew nearer one of the boys caught sight of the red band
around my cap among the hate crowning the sidewalk crowd. My! but that one
man's interest swept over the hundred odd men! Like the flame of a prairie
fire, it went with a zip! They all knew at once! They had no eyes for the
crowd any more; they did not stare at the faade of the railway terminus
which they were passing; they saw nothing of the famous 'London Stone' set
in the wall behind its grid on their right hand. What they saw was a
Salvation Army man in all his familiar war-paint, and it was a sight for
sore eyes! Here was something they could understand! This was an American
institution, a tried, proved and necessary part of the life of any
community. All this and much more those wide-open eyes told me. It was as
good to them as if I was stuck all over with stars and stripes. I
belonged--that's it--belonged to them, and so they took off the veil and
showed their hearts and smiled their good glad greeting.

"So I smiled and that first file of four beamed seraphic. Two at least
were of Scandinavian stock, but how should that make any difference? Again
and again I noticed their counterpart in the column which followed.... It
was all the same; file upon file those faces spread out in eager
particular greeting; those eyes, one and all, sought mine expecting the
smile I so gladly gave. And then when the last was past and I gazed upon
their swaying forms from the rear I wondered why my eyes were moist and
something had gone wrong with my swallowing apparatus. Great boys! Bonny
boys!"

The Salvation Army was founded July 5, 1865, as a Christian Mission in
East London by the Reverend William Booth, and its first Headquarters
opened in Whitechapel Road, London. Three years later work was begun in
Scotland.

In 1877 the name of the Christian Mission was altered to the Salvation
Army, and the Reverend William Booth assumed the title of General.

December 29, 1879, the first number of the official organ, "The War Cry,"
was issued and the first brass band formed at Consett.

In 1880 the first Training School was opened at Hackney, London, and the
first contingent of the Salvation Army officers landed in the United
States. The next year the Salvation Army entered Australia, and was
extended to France. 1882 saw Switzerland, Sweden, India and Canada
receiving their first contingent of Salvation Army officers. A London
Orphan Asylum was acquired and converted into Congress Hall, which, with
its large Auditorium, with a seating capacity of five thousand, still
remains the Mammoth International Training School for Salvation Army
officers, for missionary and home fields all over the world. The first
Prison-Gate Home was opened in London in this same year.

The Army commenced in South Africa, New Zealand and Iceland in 1883.

In 1886 work was begun in Germany and the late General visited France, the
United States and Canada. The First International Congress was held in
London in that year.

The British Slum work was inaugurated in 1887, and Officers sent to Italy,
Holland, Denmark, Zululand, and among the Kaffirs and Hottentots. The next
year the Army extended to Norway, Argentine Kepublic, Finland and Belgium,
and the next ten years saw work extended in succession to Uruguay, West
Indies, Java, Japan, British Guiana, Panama and Korea, and work commenced
among the Lepers.

The growing confidence of the great of the earth was manifested by the
honors that were conferred upon General Booth from time to time. In 1898
he opened the American Senate with prayer. In 1904 King Edward received
him at Buckingham Palace, the freedom of the City of London and the City
of Kirkcaldy were conferred upon him, as well as the degree of D. C. L. by
Oxford, during 1905. The Kings of Denmark, Norway, the Queen of Sweden,
and the Emperor of Japan were among those who received him in private
audience.

On August 20, 1912, General William Booth laid down his sword.

He lay in state in Congress Hall, London, where the number of visitors who
looked upon his remains ran into the hundreds of thousands.

His son, William Bramwell Booth, the Chief of the Staff, by the
appointment of the late General, succeeded to the office and came to the
position with a wealth of affection and confidence on the part of the
people of the nations such as few men know.


SALVATION ARMY WAR ACTIVITIES.

77 Motor ambulances manned by Salvationists.

87 Hotels for use of Soldiers and Sailors.

107 Buildings in United States placed at disposal of Government for war
relief purposes.

199 Huts at Soldiers' Camps used for religious and social gatherings and
for dispensing comfort to Soldiers and Sailors.

300 Rest-rooms equipped with papers, magazines, books, etc., in charge of
Salvation Army Officers.

1507 Salvation Army officers devote their entire time to religious and
social work among Soldiers and Sailors.

15,000 Beds in hotels close to railway stations and landing points at
seaport cities for protection of Soldiers and Sailors going to and from
the Front.

80,000 Salvation Army officers fighting with Allied Armies.

100,000 Parcels of food and clothing distributed among Soldiers and
Sailors.

100,000 Wounded Soldiers taken from battlefields in Salvation Army
ambulances.

300,000 Soldiers and Sailors daily attend Salvation Army buildings.

$2,000,000 Already spent in war activities.

45 Chaplains serving under Government appointment.

40 Camps, Forts and Navy Yards at which Salvation Army services are
conducted or which are visited by Salvation Army officers.

2184 War Widows assisted (legal and other aid, and visited).

2404 Soldiers' wives cared for (including medical help).

442 War children under our care.

3378 Soldiers' remittances forwarded (without charge).

$196,081.05 Amount remitted.

600 Parcels supplied Prisoners of War.

1300 Cables sent for Soldiers.

275 Officers detailed to assist Soldiers' wives and relatives; number
assisted, 275.

40 Military hospitals visited.

360 Persons visiting hospitals.

147 Boats met.

324,052 Men on board,

35,845 Telegrams sent.

24 Salvationists detailed for this work.

20 Salvationists detailed for this work outside of New York City.


SALVATION ARMY WORK IN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

1218 Buildings in use at present.

2953 Missing friends found.

6125 Tons of ice distributed.

12,000 Officers and non-commissioned officers actively employed.

11,650 Accommodations in institutions.

68,000 Children cared for in Rescue Homes and Slum Settlements.

22,161 Women and girls cared for in Rescue Homes.

30,401 Tons of coal distributed.

175,764 Men cared for in Industrial Homes.

342,639 Poor families visited.

399,418 Outings given poor people.

668,250 Converted to Christian life.

984,426 Jobs found for unemployed poor.

1,535,840 Hours spent in active service in slum districts.

6,900,995 Poor people given temporary relief.

40,522,990 Nights' shelter and beds given to needy poor.

52,674,308 Meals supplied to needy poor. Constituency reached with appeal
for Christian citizenship.

132,608,087 Out-door meeting attendance.

134,412,564 In-door meeting attendance.


NATIONAL WAR BOARD.

Commander Evangeline C. Booth, President.

EAST.
Peart, Col. William, Chairman.
Reinhardsen, Col. Gustave S., Sec'y and Treas.
Damon, Col. Alexander M.,
Parker, Col. Edward J.,
Jenkins, Lt.-Col. Walter F.,
Stanyon, Lt.-Col. Thomas,
Welte, Brigadier Charles

WEST
Estill, Commissioner Thos., Chairman
Gauntlett, Col. Sidney,
Brewer, Lt.-Col. Arthur T.,
Eynn, Lt.-Col. John T.,
Dart, Brigadier Wm. J., Sec'y.

FRANCE.
Barker, Lt.-Col. William S., Director of War Work.

As indicated in the above list, the National War Board functions in two
distinct territories--East and West--the duty of each being to administer
all War Work in the respective territories. The closest supervision is
given by each War Board over all expenditure of money and no scheme is
sanctioned until the judgment of the Board is carried concerning the
usefulness of the project and the sound financial proposals associated
therewith. After any plan is initiated, the Board is still responsible for
the supervision of the work, and for the Eastern department Colonel Edward
J. Parker is the Board's representative in all such matters and Lieut-
Colonel Arthur T. Brewer fills a similar office in the Western department.
Each section of the National Board takes responsibility in connection with
the overseas work, under the presidency of COMMANDER EVANGELINE C. BOOTH
for the raising, equipping and sending of thoroughly suitable people in
proper proportion. Joint councils are occasionally necessary, when it is
customary for proper representatives of each section of the Board to meet
together.

The National Board is greatly strengthened through the adding to its
special councils all of the Provincial Officers of the country.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The War Romance of the Salvation Army
by Evangeline Booth and Grace Livingston Hill





Produced by Distributed Proofreaders





THE RIVERSIDE LITERATURE SERIES


A TREASURY OF
WAR POETRY


BRITISH AND AMERICAN POEMS
OF THE WORLD WAR
1914-1917


Edited, With Introduction And Notes, By
GEORGE HERBERT CLARKE
Professor of English in the University of Tennessee





CONTENTS


I. AMERICA


RUDYARD KIPLING:  The Choice

HENRY VAN DYKE:  "Liberty Enlightening the World"

ROBERT BRIDGES:  To the United States of America

VACHEL LINDSAY:  Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight

JEANNE ROBERT FOSTER:  The "William P. Frye"


II. ENGLAND AND AMERICA


FLORENCE T. HOLT:  England and America

LIEUTENANT CHARLES LANGBRIDGE MORGAN:  To America

HELEN GRAY CONE:  A Chant of Love for England

HARDWICKE DRUMMOND RAWNSLEY:  At St. Paul's: April 20, 1917

ROWLAND THIRLMERE:  Jimmy Doane

ALFRED NOYES:  Princeton, May, 1917


III. ENGLAND


SIR HENRY NEWBOLT:  The Vigil

RUDYARD KIPLING:  "For All we Have and Are"

JOHN GALSWORTHY:  England to Free Men

SIR OWEN SEAMAN:  _Pro Patria_

GEORGE HERBERT CLARKE:  Lines Written in Surrey, 1917


IV. FRANCE


CECIL CHESTERTON:  _France_

HENRY VAN DYKE:  The Name of France

CHARLOTTE HOLMES CRAWFORD:  _Vive la France!_

THEODOSIA GARRISON:  The Soul of Jeanne d'Arc

EDGAR LEE MASTERS:  O Glorious France

HERBERT JONES:  To France

FLORENCE EARLE COATES:  Place de la Concorde

CANON AND MAJOR FREDERICK GEORGE SCOTT:  To France

GRACE ELLERY CHANNING:  _Qui Vive?_


V. BELGIUM


LAURENCE BINYON:  To the Belgians

EDITH WHARTON:  Belgium

EDEN PHILLPOTTS:  To Belgium

SIR OWEN SEAMAN:  To Belgium in Exile

GILBERT KEITH CHESTERTON:  The Wife of Flanders


VI. RUSSIA AND AMERICA


JOHN GALSWORTHY:  Russia--America

ROBERT UNDERWOOD JOHNSON:  To Russia New and Free


VII. ITALY


CLINTON SCOLLARD:  Italy in Arms

GEORGE EDWARD WOODBERRY:  On the Italian Front, MCMXVI


VIII. AUSTRALIA


ARCHIBALD T. STRONG:  Australia to England


IX. CANADA


MARJORIE L. C. PICKTHALL:  Canada to England

WILFRED CAMPBELL:  Langemarck at Ypres

WILL H. OGILVIE:  Canadians


X. LIGE


STEPHEN PHILLIPS:  The Kaiser and Belgium

DANA BURNET:  The Battle of Lige


XI. VERDUN


LAURENCE BINYON:  Men of Verdun

EDEN PHILLPOTTS:  Verdun

PATRICK R. CHALMERS:  Guns of Verdun


XII. OXFORD


WINIFRED M. LETTS:  The Spires of Oxford

W. SNOW:  Oxford in War-Time

TERTIUS VAN DYKE:  Oxford Revisited in War-Time


XIII. REFLECTIONS


GEORGE EDWARD WOODBERRY:  Sonnets Written in the Fall of 1914

SIR HENRY NEWBOLT:  The War Films

ALFRED NOYES:  The Searchlights

PERCY MACKAYE:  Christmas: 1915

THOMAS HARDY:  "Men who March Away"

JOHN DRINKWATER:  We Willed it Not

LIEUTENANT-COLONEL SIR RONALD ROSS:  The Death of Peace

FLORENCE EARLE COATES:  In War-Time

LAURENCE BINYON:  The Anvil

WALTER DE LA MARE:  The Fool Rings his Bells

JOHN FINLEY:  The Road to Dieppe

W. MACNEILE DIXON:  To Fellow Travellers in Greece

AUSTIN DOBSON:  "When there is Peace"

ALFRED NOYES:  A Prayer in Time of War

THOMAS HARDY:  Then and Now

BARRY PAIN:  The Kaiser and God

ROBERT GRANT:  The Superman

EVERARD OWEN:  Three Hills


XIV. INCIDENTS AND ASPECTS


JOHN FREEMAN:  The Return

GRACE FALLOW NORTON:  The Mobilization in Brittany

SIR HENRY NEWBOLT:  The Toy Band

SIR OWEN SEAMAN:  Thomas of the Light Heart

MAURICE HEWLETT:  In the Trenches

SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE:  The Guards Came Through

WILLIAM DEAN HOWELLS:  The Passengers of a Retarded Submersible

LAURENCE BUTTON:  Edith Cavell

HERBERT KAUFMAN:  The Hell-Gate of Soissons

GEORGE HERBERT CLARKE:  The Virgin of Albert

WILFRID WILSON GIBSON: Retreat

SIR HENRY NEWBOLT: A Letter from the Front

GRACE HAZARD CONKLING: Rheims Cathedral--1914


XV. POETS MILITANT


ALAN SEEGER: I Have a Rendezvous with Death

LIEUTENANT RUPERT BROOKE: The Soldier

CAPTAIN CHARLES HAMILTON SORLEY: _Expectans Expectavi_

LIEUTENANT HERBERT ASQUITH: The Volunteer

CAPTAIN JULIAN GRENFELL: Into Battle

JAMES NORMAN HALL: The Cricketers of Flanders

CAPTAIN CHARLES HAMILTON SORLEY: "All the Hills and Vales Along"

CAPTAIN JAMES H. KNIGHT-ADKIN: No Man's Land

ALAN SEEGER: Champagne, 1914-15

CAPTAIN GILBERT FRANKAU: Headquarters

LIEUTENANT E. WYNDHAM TENNANT: Home Thoughts from Laventie

LIEUTENANT ROBERT ERNEST VERNDE: A Petition

ROBERT NICHOLS: Fulfilment

    The Day's March

LIEUTENANT FREDERIC MANNING: The Sign

    The Trenches

LIEUTENANT HENRY WILLIAM HUTCHINSON: Sonnets

CAPTAIN J. E. STEWART: The Messines Road

PRIVATE A. N. FIELD: The Challenge of the Guns

LIEUTENANT GEOFFREY HOWARD: The Beach Road by the Wood

SERGEANT JOSEPH LEE: German Prisoners

SERGEANT LESLIE COULSON: "--But a Short Time to Live"

LIEUTENANT W. N. HODGSON: Before Action

LIEUTENANT DYNELEY HUSSEY: Courage

LIEUTENANT A. VICTOR RATCLIFFE: Optimism

MAJOR SYDNEY OSWALD: The Battlefield

CAPTAIN JAMES H. KNIGHT-ADKIN: "_On Les Aura!_"

CORPORAL ALEXANDER ROBERTSON: To an Old Lady
Seen at a Guest-House for Soldiers

LIEUTENANT GILBERT WATERHOUSE: The Casualty
Clearing Station

LANCE-CORPORAL MALCOLM HEMPHREY: Hills of Home


XVI. AUXILIARIES


JOHN FINLEY: The Red Cross Spirit Speaks

WINIFRED M. LETTS: Chaplain to the Forces

EDEN PHILLPOTTS: Song of the Red Cross

LAURENCE BINYON: The Healers

THOMAS L. MARSON: The Red Cross Nurses


XVII. KEEPING THE SEAS


ALFRED NOYES: Kilmeny

RUDYARD KIPLING: The Mine-Sweepers

HENRY VAN DYKE: _Mare Liberum_

LIEUTENANT PAUL BEWSHER: The Dawn Patrol

REGINALD MCINTOSH CLEVELAND: Destroyers off Jutland

C. FOX SMITH: British Merchant Service


XVIII. THE WOUNDED


WINIFRED M. LETTS:  To a Soldier in Hospital

WILFRID WILSON GIBSON:  Between the Lines

ROBERT HAVEN SCHAUFFLER:  The White Comrade

ROBERT W. SERVICE:  Fleurette

ROBERT FROST:  Not to Keep


XIX. THE FALLEN


LIEUTENANT RUPERT BROOKE:  The Dead

JOHN MASEFIELD:  The Island of Skyros

LAURENCE BINYON:  For the Fallen

CAPTAIN CHARLES HAMILTON SORLEY:  Two Sonnets

WALTER DE LA MARE:  "How Sleep the Brave!"

EDWARD VERRALL LUCAS:  The Debt

CANON AND MAJOR FREDERICK GEORGE SCOTT:  _Requiescant_

LIEUTENANT ROBERT ERNEST VERNDE:  To our Fallen

KATHARINE TYNAN:  The Old Soldier

ROBERT BRIDGES:  Lord Kitchener

JOHN HELSTON:  Kitchener

LIEUTENANT HERBERT ASQUITH:  The Fallen Subaltern

F. W. BOURDILLON:  The Debt Unpayable

WILFRID WILSON GIBSON:  The Messages

G. ROSTREVOR HAMILTON:  A Cross in Flanders

HERMANN HAGEDORN:  Resurrection

OSCAR C. A. CHILD:  To a Hero

MORAY DALTON:  Rupert Brooke (In Memoriam)

FRANCIS BICKLEY: The Players

CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND: A Song


XX. WOMEN AND WAR


JOSEPHINE PRESTON PEABODY: Harvest Moon

JOSEPHINE PRESTON PEABODY: Harvest Moon: 1916

ADA TYRRELL: My Son

KATHARINE TYNAN: To the Others

GRACE FALLOW NORTON: The Journey

MARGARET PETERSON: A Mother's Dedication

EDEN PHILLPOTTS: To a Mother

SARA TEASDALE: Spring In War-Time


OCCASIONAL NOTES


INDEXES




ACKNOWLEDGMENTS


The Editor desires to express his cordial appreciation of the assistance
rendered him in his undertaking by the officials of the British Museum
(Mr. F.D. Sladen, in particular); Professor W. Macneile Dixon, of the
University of Glasgow; Professor Kemp Smith, of Princeton University;
Miss Esther C. Johnson, of Needham, Massachusetts; and Mr. Francis
Bickley, of London. He wishes also to acknowledge the courtesies
generously extended by the following authors, periodicals, and
publishers in granting permission for the use of the poems indicated,
rights in which are in each case reserved by the owner of the
copyright:--

Mr. Francis Bickley and the _Westminster Gazette_:--"The Players."

Mr. F.W. Bourdillon and the _Spectator_:--"The Debt Unpayable."

Dr. Robert Bridges and the London _Times_:--"Lord Kitchener," and "To
the United States of America."

Mr. Dana Burnet and the New York _Evening Sun_:--"The Battle of Lige."

Mr. Wilfred Campbell and the Ottawa _Evening Journal_:--"Langemarck at
Ypres."

Mr. Patrick R. Chalmers and _Punch_:--"Guns of Verdun."

Mr. Cecil Chesterton and _The New Witness_:--"France."

Mr. Oscar C.A. Child and _Harper's Magazine_:--"To a Hero."

Mr. Reginald McIntosh Cleveland and the _New York Times_:--"Destroyers
off Jutland."

Miss Charlotte Holmes Crawford and _Scribner's Magazine_:--"_Vive la
France!_"

Mr. Moray Dalton and the _Spectator_:--"Rupert Brooke."

Lord Desborough and the London _Times_:--"Into Battle," by the late
Captain Julian Grenfell.

Professor W. Macneile Dixon and the London _Times_:--"To Fellow
Travellers in Greece,"

Mr. Austin, Dobson and the _Spectator_:--"'When There Is Peace;'"

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and the London _Times_:--"The Guards Came
Through."

Mr. John Finley and the _Atlantic Monthly_:--"The Road to Dieppe"; Mr.
Finley, the American Red Cross, and the _Red Cross Magazine_:--"The Red
Cross Spirit Speaks."

Mr. John Freeman and the _Westminster Gazette_:--"The Return."

Mr. Robert Frost and the _Yale Review_:--"Not to Keep."

Mr. John Galsworthy and the _Westminster Gazette_:--"England to Free
Men"; Mr. Galsworthy and the London _Chronicle_:--"Russia--America."

Mrs. Theodosia Garrison and _Scribner's Magazine_:--"The Soul of Jeanne
d'Arc."

Lady Glenconner and the London _Times_:--"Home Thoughts from Laventie,"
by the late Lieutenant E. Wyndham Tennant.

Mr. Robert Grant and the _Nation_ (New York):--"The Superman."

Mr. Hermann Hagedorn and the _Century Magazine_:--"Resurrection."

Mr. James Norman Hall and the _Spectator_:--"The Cricketers of
Flanders."

Mr. Thomas Hardy and the London _Times_:--"Men Who March Away," and
"Then and Now."

Mr. John Helston and the _English Review_:--"Kitchener."

Mr. Maurice Hewlett:--"In the Trenches," from _Sing-Songs of the War_
(The Poetry Bookshop).

Dr. A. E. Hillard:--"The Dawn Patrol," by Lieutenant Paul Bewsher.

Mrs. Katharine Tynan Hinkson:--"To the Others" and "The Old Soldier."

Mrs. Florence T. Holt and the _Atlantic Monthly_:--"England and
America."

Mr. William Dean Howells and the _North American Review_:--"The
Passengers of a Retarded Submersible."

Lady Hutchinson:--"Sonnets," by the late Lieutenant Henry William
Hutchinson.

Mr. Robert Underwood Johnson:--"To Russia New and Free," from _Poems of
War and Peace_, published by the author.

Mr. Rudyard Kipling:--"The Choice"; "'For All we Have and Are'"; and
"The Mine-Sweepers." (Copyright, 1914, 1915, 1917, by Rudyard Kipling.)

Captain James H. Knight-Adkin and the _Spectator_;--"No Man's Land" and
"_On Les Aura!_"

Sergeant Joseph Lee and the _Spectator_:--"German Prisoners."

Mr. E. V. Lucas and the _Sphere_:--"The Debt."

Mr. Walter de la Mare and the London _Times_:--"'How Sleep the Brave!'";
Mr. de la Mare and the _Westminster Gazette_:--"The Fool Rings his
Bells."

Mr. Edward Marsh, literary executor of the late Rupert Brooke:--"The
Soldier" and "The Dead."

Mr. Thomas L. Masson:--"The Red Cross Nurses," from the _Red Cross
Magazine_.

Lieutenant Charles Langbridge Morgan and the _Westminster Gazette_:--"To
America."

Sir Henry Newbolt:--"The Vigil"; "The War Films"; "The Toy Band," and "A
Letter from the Front."

Mr. Alfred Noyes:--"Princeton, May, 1917"; "The Searchlights" (London
_Times_), "A Prayer in Time of War" (London _Daily Mail_), and
"Kilmeny."

Mr. Will H. Ogilvie:--"Canadians."

Mr. Barry Pain and the London _Times_:--"The Kaiser and God."

Miss Marjorie Pickthall and the London _Times_:--"Canada to England."

Canon H.D. Dawnsley and the _Westminster Gazette_:--"At St. Paul's,
April 20, 1917."

Dr. Charles Alexander Richmond:--"A Song."

Lieutenant-Colonel Sir Ronald Ross and the _Poetry Review_:--"The Death
of Peace."

Mr. Robert Haven Schauffler:--"The White Comrade."

Mr. W. Snow and the _Spectator_:--"Oxford in War-Time."

Mrs. Grace Ellery Channing Stetson and the New York _Tribune_:--"_Qui
Vive_?"

Mr. Rowland Thirlmere and the _Poetry Review_:--"Jimmy Doane."

Mrs. Ada Turrell and the _Saturday Review_:--"My Son."

Dr. Henry van Dyke and the London _Times_:--"Liberty Enlightening the
World," and "_Mare Liberum_"; Dr. van Dyke and the _Art World_: "The
Name of France."

Mr. Tertius van Dyke and the _Spectator_:--"Oxford Revisited in
War-Time."

Mrs. Edith Wharton:--"Belgium," from _King Albert's Book_ (Hearst's
International Library Company).

Mr. George Edward Woodberry and the _Boston Herald_:--"On the Italian
Front, MCMXVI"; Mr. Woodberry, the _New York Times_ and the _North
American Review_:--"Sonnets Written in the Fall of 1914."

_The Athenaeum_:--"A Cross in Flanders," by G. Rostrevor Hamilton.

_The Poetry Review_:--"The Messines Road," by Captain J.E. Stewart; "--
But a Short Time to Live," by the late Sergeant Leslie Coulson.

_The Spectator_:--"The Challenge of the Guns," by Private A.N. Field.

The London _Times_:--"To Our Fallen" and "A Petition," by the late
Lieutenant Robert Ernest Vernde.

The _Westminster Gazette_:--"Lines Written in Surrey, 1917," by George
Herbert Clarke.

Messrs. Barse & Hopkins:--"Fleurette," by Robert W. Service.

The Cambridge University Press and Professor William R. Sorley:--
"_Expectans Expectavi_"; "'All the Hills and Vales Along,'" and "Two
Sonnets," by the late Captain Charles Hamilton Sorley, from _Marlborough
and Other Poems_.

Messrs. Chatto & Windus:--"Fulfilment" and "The Day's March," by Robert
Nichols.

Messrs. Constable & Company:--"Pro Patria," "Thomas of the Light Heart,"
and "To Belgium in Exile," by Sir Owen Seaman, from _War-Time_; "To
France" and "_Requiescant_," by Canon and Major Frederick George Scott,
from _In the Battle Silences_.

Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Company:--"To a Soldier in Hospital" (the
_Spectator_); "Chaplain to the Forces" and "The Spires of Oxford"
(_Westminster Gazette_), by Winifred M. Letts, from _Hallowe'en, and
Poems of the War_; "A Chant of Love for England," by Helen Gray Cone,
from _A Chant of Love for England, and Other Poems_ (published also by
J.M. Dent & Sons, Limited, London).

Lawrence J. Gomme:--"Italy in Arms," by Clinton Scollard, from _Italy in
Arms, and Other Poems_.

Messrs. Houghton Mifflin Company:--"To the Belgians"; "Men of Verdun";
"The Anvil"; "Edith Cavell"; "The Healers" and "For the Fallen," by
Laurence Binyon, from _The Cause_ (published also by Elkin Mathews,
London, in _The Anvil_ and _The Winnowing Fan_); "Headquarters," by
Captain Gilbert Frankau, from _A Song of the Guns_; "Place de la
Concorde" and "In War-Time," by Florence Earle Coates, from _The
Collected Poems of Florence Earle Coates_; "Harvest Moon" and "Harvest
Moon, 1915," by Josephine Preston Peabody, from _Harvest Moon_; "The
Mobilization in Brittany" and "The Journey," by Grace Fallow Norton,
from _Roads_, and "Rheims Cathedral--1914," by Grace Hazard Conkling,
from _Afternoons of April_.

John Lane:--"The Kaiser and Belgium," by the late Stephen Phillips.

The John Lane Company:--"The Wife of Flanders," by Gilbert K.
Chesterton, from _Poems_ (published also by Messrs. Burns and Gates,
London); "The Soldier," and "The Dead," by the late Lieutenant Rupert
Brooke, from _The Collected Poems of Rupert Brooke_ (published also by
Messrs. Sidgwick & Jackson, London, in _19l4, and Other Poems_).

Erskine Macdonald:--The following poems from _Soldier Poets_:--"The
Beach Road by the Wood," by Lieutenant Geoffrey Howard; "Before Action,"
by the late Lieutenant W.N. Hodgson ("Edward Melbourne"); "Courage," by
Lieutenant Dyneley Hussey; "Optimism," by Lieutenant A. Victor
Ratcliffe; "The Battlefield," by Major Sidney Oswald; "To an Old Lady
Seen at a Guest-House for Soldiers," by Corporal Alexander Robertson;
"The Casualty Clearing Station," by Lieutenant Gilbert Waterhouse; and
"Hills of Home," by Lance-Corporal Malcolm Hemphrey.

The Macmillan Company:--"To Belgium"; "Verdun"; "To a Mother," and "Song
of the Red Cross," by Eden Phillpotts, from _Plain Song, 1914-1916_
(published also by William Heinemann, London); "The Island of Skyros,"
by John Masefield; "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight," from _The Congo
and Other Poems_, by Vachel Lindsay; "O Glorious France," by Edgar Lee
Masters, from _Songs and Satires_; "Christmas, 1915," from _Poems and
Plays_, by Percy MacKaye; "The Hellgate of Soissons," by Herbert
Kaufman, from _The Hellgate of Soissons_; "Spring in War-Time," by Sara
Teasdale, from _Rivers to the Sea_; and "Retreat," "The Messages," and
"Between the Lines," by Wilfrid Wilson Gibson.

Messrs. Macmillan & Company:--"Australia to England," by Archibald T.
Strong, from _Sonnets of the Empire_, and "Men Who March Away," by
Thomas Hardy, from _Satires of Circumstance_.

Elkin Mathews:--"The British Merchant Service" (the _Spectator_), by C.
Fox Smith, from _The Naval Crown_.

John Murray:--"The Sign," and "The Trenches," by Lieutenant Frederic
Manning.

The Princeton University Press:--"To France," by Herbert Jones, from _A
Book of Princeton Verse_.

Messrs. Charles Scribner's Sons:--"I Have a Rendezvous with Death," and
"Champagne, 1914-1915," by the late Alan Seeger, from _Poems_.

Messrs. Sherman, French & Company:--"The _William P. Frye_" (_New York
Times_), by Jeanne Robert Foster, from _Wild Apples_.

Messrs. Sidgwick & Jackson:--"We Willed It Not" (_The Sphere_), by John
Drinkwater; "Three Hills" (London _Times_), by Everard Owen, from _Three
Hills, and Other Poems_; "The Volunteer," and "The Fallen Subaltern," by
Lieutenant Herbert Asquith, from _The Volunteer, and Other Poems_.

Messrs. Truslove and Hanson:--"A Mother's Dedication," by Margaret
Peterson, from _The Women's Message_.




INTRODUCTION


Because man is both militant and pacific, he has expressed in
literature, as indeed in the other forms of art, his pacific and
militant moods. Nor are these moods, of necessity, incompatible. War may
become the price of peace, and peace may so decay as inevitably to bring
about war. Of the dully unresponsive pacificist and the jingo patriot,
quick to anger, the latter no doubt is the more dangerous to the cause
of true freedom, yet both are "undesirable citizens." He who believes
that peace is illusory and spurious, unless it be based upon justice and
liberty, will be proud to battle, if battle he must, for the sake of
those foundations.

For the most part, the poetry of war, undertaken in this spirit, has
touched and exalted such special qualities as patriotism, courage, self-
sacrifice, enterprise, and endurance. Where it has tended to glorify war
in itself, it is chiefly because war has released those qualities, so to
speak, in stirring and spectacular ways; and where it has chosen to
round upon war and to upbraid it, it is because war has slain ardent and
lovable youths and has brought misery and despair to women and old
people. But the war poet has left the mere arguments to others. For
himself, he has seen and felt. Envisaging war from various angles, now
romantically, now realistically, now as the celebrating chronicler, now
as the contemplative interpreter, but always in a spirit of catholic
curiosity, he has sung, the fall of Troy, the Roman adventures, the
mediaeval battles and crusades, the fields of Agincourt and Waterloo,
and the more modern revolutions. Since Homer, he has spoken with martial
eloquence through, the voices of Drayton, Spenser, Marlowe, Webster,
Shakespeare, Milton, Byron, Scott, Burns, Campbell, Tennyson, Browning,
the New England group, and Walt Whitman,--to mention only a few of the
British and American names,--and he speaks sincerely and powerfully
to-day in the writings of Kipling. Hardy, Masefield, Binyon, Newbolt,
Watson, Rupert Brooke, and the two young soldiers--the one English, the
other American--who have lately lost their lives while on active
service: Captain Charles Hamilton Sorley, who was killed at Hulluch,
October 18, 1915; and Alan Seeger, who fell, mortally wounded, during
the charge on Belloy-en-Santerre, July 4, 1916.

There can be little doubt that these several minds and spirits, stirred
by the passion and energy of war, and reacting sensitively both to its
cruelties and to its pities, have experienced the kinship of quickened
insight and finer unselfishness in the face of wide-ranging death. They
have silently compared, perhaps, the normal materialistic conventions in
business, politics, education, and religion, with the relief from those
conventions that nearly all soldiers and many civilians experience in
time of war; for although war has its too gross and ugly side, it has
not dared to learn that inflexibility of custom and conduct that deadens
the spirit into a tame submission. This strange rebound and exaltation
would seem to be due less to the physical realities of war--which must
in many ways cramp and constrain the individual--than to the relative
spiritual freedom engendered by the needs of war, if they are to be
successfully met. The man of war has an altogether unusual opportunity
to realize himself, to cleanse and heal himself through the mastering of
his physical fears; through the facing of his moral doubts; through the
rexamination of whatever thoughts he may have possessed, theretofore,
about life and death and the universe; and through the quietly unselfish
devotion he owes to the welfare of his fellows and to the cause of his
native land.

Into the stuff of his thought and utterance, whether he be on active
service or not, the poet-interpreter of war weaves these intentions, and
coperates with his fellows in building up a little higher and better,
from time to time, that edifice of truth for whose completion can be
spared no human experience, no human hope.

As already suggested, English and American literatures have both
received genuine accessions, even thus early, arising out of the present
great conflict, and we may be sure that other equally notable
contributions will be made. The present Anthology contains a number of
representative poems produced by English-speaking men and women. The
editorial policy has been humanly hospitable, rather than academically
critical, especially in the case of some of the verses written by
soldiers at the Front, which, however slight in certain instances their
technical merit may be, are yet psychologically interesting as sincere
transcripts of personal experience, and will, it is thought, for that
very reason, peculiarly attract and interest the reader. It goes without
saying that there are several poems in this group which conspicuously
succeed also as works of art. For the rest, the attempt has been made,
within such limitations as have been experienced, to present pretty
freely the best of what has been found available in contemporary British
and American war verse. It must speak for itself, and the reader will
find that in not a few instances it does so with sensitive sympathy and
with living power; sometimes, too, with that quietly intimate
companionableness which we find in Gray's _Elegy_, and which John
Masefield, while lecturing in America in 1916, so often indicated as a
prime quality in English poetry. But if this quality appears in Chaucer
and the pre-Romantics and Wordsworth, it appears also in Longfellow and
Lowell, in Emerson and Lanier, and in William Vaughn Moody; for American
poetry is, after all, as English poetry,--"with a difference,"--sprung
from the same sources, and coursing along similar channels.

The new fellowship of the two great Anglo-Saxon nations which a book of
this character may, to a degree, illustrate, is filled with such high
promise for both of them, and for all civilization, that it is perhaps
hardly too much to say, with Ambassador Walter H. Page, in his address
at the Pilgrims' Dinner in London, April 12, 1917: "We shall get out of
this association an indissoluble companionship, and we shall henceforth
have indissoluble mutual duties for mankind. I doubt if there could be
another international event comparable in large value and in long
consequences to this closer association." Mr. Balfour struck the same
note when, during his mission to the United States, he expressed himself
in these words: "That this great people should throw themselves whole-
heartedly into this mighty struggle, prepared for all efforts and
sacrifices that may be required to win success for this most righteous
cause, is an event at once so happy and so momentous that only the
historian of the future will be able, as I believe, to measure its true
proportions."

The words of these eminent men ratify in the field of international
politics the hopeful anticipation which Tennyson expressed in his poem,
_Hands all Round_, as it appeared in the London _Examiner_, February 7,
1852:--

"Gigantic daughter of the West,
  We drink to thee across the flood,
We know thee most, we love thee best,
  For art thou not of British blood?
Should war's mad blast again be blown,
  Permit not thou the tyrant powers
To fight thy mother here alone,
  But let thy broadsides roar with ours.
        Hands all round!
  God the tyrant's cause confound!
To our great kinsmen of the West, my friends,
  And the great name of England, round and round.

"O rise, our strong Atlantic sons,
  When war against our freedom springs!
O speak to Europe through your guns!
  They can be understood by kings.
You must not mix our Queen with those
  That wish to keep their people fools;
Our freedom's foemen are her foes,
  She comprehends the race she rules.
        Hands all round!
  God the tyrant's cause confound!
To our dear kinsmen of the West, my friends,
  And the great cause of Freedom, round and round."

They ratify also the spirit of those poems in the present volume which
seek to interpret to Britons and Americans their deepening friendship.
"Poets," said Shelley, "are the unacknowledged legislators of the
world," and he meant by legislation the guidance and determination of
the verdicts of the human soul.

G. H. C.

_August, 1917_




THE CHOICE

THE AMERICAN SPIRIT SPEAKS:


To the Judge of Right and Wrong
  With Whom fulfillment lies
Our purpose and our power belong,
  Our faith and sacrifice.

Let Freedom's land rejoice!
  Our ancient bonds are riven;
Once more to us the eternal choice
  Of good or ill is given.

Not at a little cost,
  Hardly by prayer or tears,
Shall we recover the road we lost
  In the drugged and doubting years,

But after the fires and the wrath,
  But after searching and pain,
His Mercy opens us a path
  To live with ourselves again.

In the Gates of Death rejoice!
  We see and hold the good--
Bear witness, Earth, we have made our choice
  For Freedom's brotherhood.

Then praise the Lord Most High
  Whose Strength hath saved us whole,
Who bade us choose that the Flesh should die
  And not the living Soul!

_Rudyard Kipling_




"LIBERTY ENLIGHTENING THE WORLD"


Thou warden of the western gate, above Manhattan Bay,
The fogs of doubt that hid thy face are driven clean away:
Thine eyes at last look far and clear, thou liftest high thy hand
To spread the light of liberty world-wide for every land.

No more thou dreamest of a peace reserved alone for thee,
While friends are fighting for thy cause beyond the guardian sea:
The battle that they wage is thine; thou fallest if they fall;
The swollen flood of Prussian pride will sweep unchecked o'er all.

O cruel is the conquer-lust in Hohenzollern brains:
The paths they plot to gain their goal are dark with shameful stains:
No faith they keep, no law revere, no god but naked Might;--
They are the foemen of mankind. Up, Liberty, and smite!

Britain, and France, and Italy, and Russia newly born,
Have waited for thee in the night. Oh, come as comes the morn.
Serene and strong and full of faith, America, arise,
With steady hope and mighty help to join thy brave Allies.

O dearest country of my heart, home of the high desire,
Make clean thy soul for sacrifice on Freedom's altar-fire:
For thou must suffer, thou must fight, until the warlords cease,
And all the peoples lift their heads in liberty and peace.

_Henry van Dyke_

_April 10, 1917_




TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA


Brothers in blood! They who this wrong began
  To wreck our commonwealth, will rue the day
  When first they challenged freemen to the fray,
And with the Briton dared the American.
Now are we pledged to win the Rights of man;
  Labour and Justice now shall have their way,
  And in a League of Peace--God grant we may--
Transform the earth, not patch up the old plan.

Sure is our hope since he who led your nation
  Spake for mankind, and ye arose in awe
Of that high call to work the world's salvation;
    Clearing your minds of all estranging blindness
  In the vision of Beauty and the Spirit's law,
    Freedom and Honour and sweet Lovingkindness.

_Robert Bridges_

_April 30, 1917_




ABRAHAM LINCOLN WALKS AT MIDNIGHT

(IN SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS)


It is portentous, and a thing of state
That here at midnight, in our little town,
A mourning figure walks, and will not rest,
Near the old court-house pacing up and down,

Or by his homestead, or in shadowed yards
He lingers where his children used to play;
Or through the market, on the well-worn stones
He stalks until the dawn-stars burn away.

A bronzed, lank man! His suit of ancient black,
A famous high top-hat and plain worn shawl
Make him the quaint great figure that men love,
The prairie-lawyer, master of us all.

He cannot sleep upon his hillside now.
He is among us:--as in times before!
And we who toss and lie awake for long
Breathe deep, and start, to see him pass the door.

His head is bowed. He thinks on men and kings.
Yea, when the sick world cries, how can he sleep?
Too many peasants fight, they know not why,
Too many homesteads in black terror weep.

The sins of all the war-lords burn his heart.
He sees the dreadnaughts scouring every main.
He carries on his shawl-wrapped shoulders now
The bitterness, the folly, and the pain.

He cannot rest until a spirit-dawn
Shall come;--the shining hope of Europe free:
The league of sober folk, the Workers' Earth
Bringing long peace to Cornland, Alp, and Sea.

It breaks his heart that kings must murder still,
That all his hours of travail here for men
Seem yet in vain. And who will bring white peace
That he may sleep upon his hill again?

_Vachel Lindsay_




THE "WILLIAM P. FRYE"


I saw her first abreast the Boston Light
At anchor; she had just come in, turned head,
And sent her hawsers creaking, clattering down.
I was so near to where the hawse-pipes fed
The cable out from her careening bow,
I moved up on the swell, shut steam and lay
Hove to in my old launch to look at her.
She'd come in light, a-skimming up the Bay
Like a white ghost with topsails bellying full;
And all her noble lines from bow to stern
Made music in the wind; it seemed she rode
The morning air like those thin clouds that turn
Into tall ships when sunrise lifts the clouds
From calm sea-courses.

There, in smoke-smudged coats,
Lay funnelled liners, dirty fishing-craft,
Blunt cargo-luggers, tugs, and ferry-boats.
Oh, it was good in that black-scuttled lot
To see the _Frye_ come lording on her way
Like some old queen that we had half forgot
Come to her own. A little up the Bay
The Fort lay green, for it was springtime then;
The wind was fresh, rich with the spicy bloom
Of the New England coast that tardily
Escapes, late April, from an icy tomb.
The State-house glittered on old Beacon Hill,
Gold in the sun.... 'T was all so fair awhile;
But she was fairest--this great square-rigged ship
That had blown in from some far happy isle
On from the shores of the Hesperides.

They caught her in a South Atlantic road
Becalmed, and found her hold brimmed up with wheat;
"Wheat's contraband," they said, and blew her hull
To pieces, murdered one of our staunch fleet,
Fast dwindling, of the big old sailing ships
That carry trade for us on the high sea
And warped out of each harbor in the States.
It wasn't law, so it seems strange to me--
A big mistake. Her keel's struck bottom now
And her four masts sunk fathoms, fathoms deep
To Davy Jones. The dank seaweed will root
On her oozed decks, and the cross-surges sweep
Through the set sails; but never, never more
Her crew will stand away to brace and trim,
Nor sea-blown petrels meet her thrashing up
To windward on the Gulf Stream's stormy rim;
Never again she'll head a no'theast gale
Or like a spirit loom up, sliding dumb,
And ride in safe beyond the Boston Light,
To make the harbor glad because she's come.

_Jeanne Robert Foster_




ENGLAND AND AMERICA


Mother and child! Though the dividing sea
  Shall roll its tide between us, we are one,
  Knit by immortal memories, and none
But feels the throb of ancient fealty.
A century has passed since at thy knee
  We learnt the speech of freemen, caught the fire
  That would not brook thy menaces, when sire
And grandsire hurled injustice back to thee.

But the full years have wrought equality:
  The past outworn, shall not the future bring
  A deeper union, from whose life shall spring
Mankind's best hope? In the dark night of strife
Men perished for their dream of Liberty
Whose lives were given for this larger life.

_Florence T. Holt_




TO AMERICA


When the fire sinks in the grate, and night has bent
Close wings about the room, and winter stands
Hard-eyed before the window, when the hands
Have turned the book's last page and friends are sleeping,
Thought, as it were an old stringed instrument
Drawn to remembered music, oft does set
The lips moving in prayer, for us fresh keeping
Knowledge of springtime and the violet.

And, as the eyes grow dim with many years,
The spirit runs more swiftly than the feet,
Perceives its comfort, knows that it will meet
God at the end of troubles, that the dreary
Last reaches of old age lead beyond tears
To happy youth unending. There is peace
In homeward waters, where at last the weary
Shall find rebirth, and their long struggle cease.

So, at this hour, when the Old World lies sick,
Beyond the pain, the agony of breath
Hard drawn, beyond the menaces of death,
O'er graves and years leans out the eager spirit.
First must the ancient die; then shall be quick
New fires within us. Brother, we shall make
Incredible discoveries and inherit
The fruits of hope, and love shall be awake.

_Charles Langbridge Morgan_




A CHANT OF LOVE FOR ENGLAND


A song of hate is a song of Hell;
Some there be that sing it well.
Let them sing it loud and long,
We lift our hearts in a loftier song:
We lift our hearts to Heaven above,
Singing the glory of her we love,--
          _England!_

Glory of thought and glory of deed,
Glory of Hampden and Runnymede;
Glory of ships that sought far goals,
Glory of swords and glory of souls!
Glory of songs mounting as birds,
Glory immortal of magical words;
Glory of Milton, glory of Nelson,
Tragical glory of Gordon and Scott;
Glory of Shelley, glory of Sidney,
Glory transcendent that perishes not,--
Hers is the story, hers be the glory,
            _England!_

Shatter her beauteous breast ye may;
The spirit of England none can slay!
Dash the bomb on the dome of Paul's--
Deem ye the fame of the Admiral falls?
Pry the stone from the chancel floor,--
Dream ye that Shakespeare shall live no more?
Where is the giant shot that kills
Wordsworth walking the old green hills?
Trample the red rose on the ground,--
Keats is Beauty while earth spins round!
Bind her, grind her, burn her with fire,
Cast her ashes into the sea,--
She shall escape, she shall aspire,
She shall arise to make men free:
She shall arise in a sacred scorn,
Lighting the lives that are yet unborn;
Spirit supernal, Splendour eternal,
              ENGLAND!

_Helen Gray Cone_




AT ST. PAUL'S

APRIL 20, 1917


Not since Wren's Dome has whispered with man's prayer
  Have angels leaned to wonder out of Heaven
  At such uprush of intercession given,
Here where to-day one soul two nations share,
And with accord send up thro' trembling air
  Their vows to strive as Honour ne'er has striven
  Till back to hell the Lords of hell are driven,
And Life and Peace again shall flourish fair.

This is the day of conscience high-enthroned,
  The day when East is West and West is East
    To strike for human Love and Freedom's word
Against foul wrong that cannot be atoned;
  To-day is hope of brotherhood's bond increased,
    And Christ, not Odin, is acclaimed the Lord.

_Hardwicke Drummond Rawnsley_




JIMMY DOANE


Often I think of you, Jimmy Doane,--
You who, light-heartedly, came to my house
Three autumns, to shoot and to eat a grouse!

As I sat apart in this quiet room,
My mind was full of the horror of war
And not with the hope of a visitor.

I had dined on food that had lost its taste;
My soul was cold and I wished you were here,--
When, all in a moment, I knew you were near.

Placing that chair where you used to sit,
I looked at my book:--Three years to-day
Since you laughed in that seat and I heard you say--

"My country is with you, whatever befall:
America--Britain--these two are akin
In courage and honour; they underpin

"The rights of Mankind!" Then you grasped my hand
With a brotherly grip, and you made me feel
Something that Time would surely reveal.

You were comely and tall; you had corded arms,
And sympathy's grace with your strength was blent;
You were generous, clever, and confident.

There was that in your hopes which uncountable lives
Have perished to make; your heart was fulfilled
With the breath of God that can never be stilled.

A living symbol of power, you talked
Of the work to do in the world to make
Life beautiful: yes, and my heartstrings ache

To think how you, at the stroke of War,
Chose that your steadfast soul should fly
With the eagles of France as their proud ally.

You were America's self, dear lad--
The first swift son of your bright, free land
To heed the call of the Inner Command--

To image its spirit in such rare deeds
As braced the valour of France, who knows
That the heart of America thrills with her woes.

For a little leaven leavens the whole!
Mostly we find, when we trouble to seek
The soul of a people, that some unique,

Brave man is its flower and symbol, who
Makes bold to utter the words that choke
The throats of feebler, timider folk.

You flew for the western eagle--and fell
Doing great things for your country's pride:
For the beauty and peace of life you died.

Britain and France have shrined in their souls
Your memory; yes, and for ever you share
Their love with their perished lords of the air.

Invisible now, in that empty seat,
You sit, who came through the clouds to me,
Swift as a message from over the sea.

My house is always open to you:
Dear spirit, come often and you will find
Welcome, where mind can foregather with mind!

And may we sit together one day
Quietly here, when a word is said
To bring new gladness unto our dead,

Knowing your dream is a dream no more;
And seeing on some momentous pact
Your vision upbuilt as a deathless fact.

_Rowland Thirlmere_




PRINCETON, MAY, 1917


_Here Freedom stood by slaughtered friend and foe,
And, ere the wrath paled or that sunset died,
Looked through the ages; then, with eyes aglow,
Laid them to wait that future, side by side._

(Lines for a monument to the American and British soldiers
of the Revolutionary War who fell on the Princeton
battlefield and were buried in one grave.)

Now lamp-lit gardens in the blue dusk shine
  Through dogwood, red and white;
And round the gray quadrangles, line by line,
  The windows fill with light,
Where Princeton calls to Magdalen, tower to tower,
  Twin lanthorns of the law;
And those cream-white magnolia boughs embower
  The halls of "Old Nassau."

The dark bronze tigers crouch on either side
  Where redcoats used to pass;
And round the bird-loved house where Mercer died,
  And violets dusk the grass,
By Stony Brook that ran so red of old,
  But sings of friendship now,
To feed the old enemy's harvest fifty-fold
  The green earth takes the plow.

Through this May night, if one great ghost should stray
  With deep remembering eyes,
Where that old meadow of battle smiles away
  Its blood-stained memories,
If Washington should walk, where friend and foe
  Sleep and forget the past,
Be sure his unquenched heart would leap to know
  Their souls are linked at last.

Be sure he waits, in shadowy buff and blue,
  Where those dim lilacs wave.
He bends his head to bless, as dreams come true,
  The promise of that grave;
Then, with a vaster hope than thought can scan,
  Touching his ancient sword,
Prays for that mightier realm of God in man:
  "Hasten thy kingdom, Lord.

"Land of our hope, land of the singing stars,
  Type of the world to be,
The vision of a world set free from wars
  Takes life, takes form from thee;
Where all the jarring nations of this earth,
  Beneath the all-blessing sun,
Bring the new music of mankind to birth,
  And make the whole world one."

And those old comrades rise around him there,
  Old foemen, side by side,
With eyes like stars upon the brave night air,
  And young as when they died,
To hear your bells, O beautiful Princeton towers,
  Ring for the world's release.
They see you piercing like gray swords through flowers,
  And smile, from souls at peace.

_Alfred Noyes_




THE VIGIL


England! where the sacred flame
    Burns before the inmost shrine,
Where the lips that love thy name
    Consecrate their hopes and thine,
Where the banners of thy dead
Weave their shadows overhead,
Watch beside thine arms to-night,
Pray that God defend the Right.

Think that when to-morrow comes
    War shall claim command of all,
Thou must hear the roll of drums,
    Thou must hear the trumpet's call.
Now, before thy silence ruth,
Commune with the voice of truth;
England! on thy knees to-night
Pray that God defend the Right.

Single-hearted, unafraid,
    Hither all thy heroes came,
On this altar's steps were laid
    Gordon's life and Outram's fame.
England! if thy will be yet
By their great example set,
Here beside thine arms to-night
Pray that God defend the Right.

So shalt thou when morning comes
    Rise to conquer or to fall,
Joyful hear the rolling drums,
    Joyful tear the trumpets call,
Then let Memory tell thy heart:
"England! what thou wert, thou art!"
Gird thee with thine ancient might,
Forth! and God defend the Right!

_Henry Newbolt_




"FOR ALL WE HAVE AND ARE"


For all we have and are,
For all our children's fate,
Stand up and meet the war.
The Hun is at the gate!
Our world has passed away
In wantonness o'erthrown.
There is nothing left to-day
But steel and fire and stone.

    Though all we knew depart,
    The old commandments stand:
    "In courage keep your heart,
    In strength lift up your hand,"

Once more we hear the word
That sickened earth of old:
"No law except the sword
Unsheathed and uncontrolled,"
Once more it knits mankind.
Once more the nations go
To meet and break and bind
A crazed and driven foe.
Comfort, content, delight--
The ages' slow-bought gain--
They shrivelled in a night,
Only ourselves remain
To face the naked days
In silent fortitude,
Through perils and dismays
Renewed and re-renewed.

    Though all we made depart,
    The old commandments stand:
    "In patience keep your heart,
    In strength lift up your hand."

No easy hopes or lies
Shall bring us to our goal,
But iron sacrifice
Of body, will, and soul
There is but one task for all--
For each one life to give.
Who stands if freedom fall?
Who dies if England live?

_Rudyard Kipling_




ENGLAND TO FREE MEN


Men of my blood, you English men!
From misty hill and misty fen,
From cot, and town, and plough, and moor,
Come in--before I shut the door!
Into my courtyard paved with stones
That keep the names, that keep the bones,
Of none but English men who came
Free of their lives, to guard my fame.

I am your native land who bred
No driven heart, no driven head;
I fly a flag in every sea
Round the old Earth, of Liberty!
I am the Land that boasts a crown;
The sun comes up, the sun goes down--
And never men may say of me,
Mine is a breed that is not free.

I have a wreath! My forehead wears
A hundred leaves--a hundred years
I never knew the words: "You must!"
And shall my wreath return to dust?
Freemen! The door is yet ajar;
From northern star to southern star,
O ye who count and ye who delve,
Come in--before my clock strikes twelve!

_John Galsworthy_




_PRO PATRIA_


England, in this great fight to which you go
  Because, where Honour calls you, go you must,
Be glad, whatever comes, at least to know
      You have your quarrel just.

Peace was your care; before the nations' bar
  Her cause you pleaded and her ends you sought;
But not for her sake, being what you are,
      Could you be bribed and bought.

Others may spurn the pledge of land to land,
  May with the brute sword stain a gallant past;
But by the seal to which _you_ set your hand,
      Thank God, you still stand fast!

Forth, then, to front that peril of the deep
  With smiling lips and in your eyes the light,
Steadfast and confident, of those who keep
      Their storied 'scutcheon bright.

And we, whose burden is to watch and wait,--
  High-hearted ever, strong in faith and prayer,--
We ask what offering we may consecrate,
      What humble service share.

To steel our souls against the lust of ease;
  To bear in silence though our hearts may bleed;
To spend ourselves, and never count the cost,
      For others' greater need;--

To go our quiet ways, subdued and sane;
  To hush all vulgar clamour of the street;
With level calm to face alike the strain
      Of triumph or defeat;

This be our part, for so we serve you best,
  So best confirm their prowess and their pride,
Your warrior sons, to whom in this high test
      Our fortunes we confide.

_Owen Seaman_

_August 12, 1914_




LINES WRITTEN IN SURREY, 1917


A sudden swirl of song in the bright sky--
  The little lark adoring his lord the sun;
  Across the corn the lazy ripples run;
Under the eaves, conferring drowsily,

Doves droop or amble; the agile waterfly
  Wrinkles the pool; and flowers, gay and dun,
  Rose, bluebell, rhododendron, one by one,
The buccaneering bees prove busily.

Ah, who may trace this tranquil loveliness
  In verse felicitous?--no measure tells;
But gazing on her bosom we can guess
  Why men strike hard for England in red hells,
Falling on dreams, 'mid Death's extreme caress,
  Of English daisies dancing in English dells.

_George Herbert Clarke_




FRANCE


Because for once the sword broke in her hand,
  The words she spoke seemed perished for a space;
All wrong was brazen, and in every land
  The tyrants walked abroad with naked face.

The waters turned to blood, as rose the Star
  Of evil Fate denying all release.
The rulers smote, the feeble crying "War!"
  The usurers robbed, the naked crying "Peace!"

And her own feet were caught in nets of gold,
  And her own soul profaned by sects that squirm,
And little men climbed her high seats and sold
  Her honour to the vulture and the worm.

And she seemed broken and they thought her dead,
  The Overmen, so brave against the weak.
Has your last word of sophistry been said,
  O cult of slaves? Then it is hers to speak.

Clear the slow mists from her half-darkened eyes,
  As slow mists parted over Valmy fell,
As once again her hands in high surprise
  Take hold upon the battlements of Hell.

_Cecil Chesterton_




THE NAME OF FRANCE


Give us a name to fill the mind
With the shining thoughts that lead mankind,
The glory of learning, the joy of art,--
A name that tells of a splendid part
In the long, long toil and the strenuous fight
Of the human race to win its way
From the feudal darkness into the day
Of Freedom, Brotherhood, Equal Right,--
A name like a star, a name of light--
        I give you _France!_

Give us a name to stir the blood
With a warmer glow and a swifter flood,--
A name like the sound of a trumpet, clear,
And silver-sweet, and iron-strong,
That calls three million men to their feet,
Ready to march, and steady to meet
The foes who threaten that name with wrong,--
A name that rings like a battle-song.
        I give you _France!_

Give us a name to move the heart
With the strength that noble griefs impart,
A name that speaks of the blood outpoured
To save mankind from the sway of the sword,--
A name that calls on the world to share
In the burden of sacrificial strife
Where the cause at stake is the world's free life
And the rule of the people everywhere,--
A name like a vow, a name like a prayer.
        I give you _France!_

_Henry van Dyke_




VIVE LA FRANCE!


Franceline rose in the dawning gray,
And her heart would dance though she knelt to pray,
For her man Michel had holiday,
        Fighting for France.

She offered her prayer by the cradle-side,
And with baby palms folded in hers she cried:
"If I have but one prayer, dear, crucified
        Christ--save France!

"But if I have two, then, by Mary's grace,
Carry me safe to the meeting-place,
Let me look once again on my dear love's face,
        Save him for France!"

She crooned to her boy: "Oh, how glad he'll be,
Little three-months old, to set eyes on thee!
For, 'Rather than gold, would I give,' wrote he,
        'A son to France.'

"Come, now, be good, little stray _sauterelle_,
For we're going by-by to thy papa Michel,
But I'll not say where for fear thou wilt tell,
        Little pigeon of France!

"Six days' leave and a year between!
But what would you have? In six days clean,
Heaven was made," said Franceline,
        "Heaven and France."

She came to the town of the nameless name,
To the marching troops in the street she came,
And she held high her boy like a taper flame
            Burning for France.

Fresh from the trenches and gray with grime,
Silent they march like a pantomime;
"But what need of music? My heart beats time--
            _Vive la France!_"

His regiment comes. Oh, then where is he?
"There is dust in my eyes, for I cannot see,--
Is that my Michel to the right of thee,
            Soldier of France?"

Then out of the ranks a comrade fell,--
"Yesterday--'t was a splinter of shell--
And he whispered thy name, did thy poor Michel,
            Dying for France."

The tread of the troops on the pavement throbbed
Like a woman's heart of its last joy robbed,
As she lifted her boy to the flag, and sobbed:
            "_Vive la France!_"

_Charlotte Holmes Crawford_




THE SOUL OF JEANNE D'ARC


_She came not into the Presence as a martyred saint might come,
Crowned, white-robed and adoring, with very reverence dumb,--_

_She stood as a straight young soldier, confident, gallant, strong,
Who asks a boon of his captain in the sudden hush of the drum._

She said: "Now have I stayed too long in this my place of bliss,
With these glad dead that, comforted, forget what sorrow is
Upon that world whose stony stairs they climbed to come to this.

"But lo, a cry hath torn the peace wherein so long I stayed,
Like a trumpet's call at Heaven's wall from a herald unafraid,--
A million voices in one cry, '_Where is the Maid, the Maid?_'

"I had forgot from too much joy that olden task of mine,
But I have heard a certain word shatter the chant divine,
Have watched a banner glow and grow before mine eyes for sign.

"I would return to that my land flung in the teeth of war,
I would cast down my robe and crown that pleasure me no more,
And don the armor that I knew, the valiant sword I bore.

"And angels militant shall fling the gates of Heaven wide,
And souls new-dead whose lives were shed like leaves on war's red tide
Shall cross their swords above our heads and cheer us as we ride,

"For with me goes that soldier saint, Saint Michael of the sword,
And I shall ride on his right side, a page beside his lord,
And men shall follow like swift blades to reap a sure reward.

"Grant that I answer this my call, yea, though the end may be
The naked shame, the biting flame, the last, long agony;
I would go singing down that road where fagots wait for me.

"Mine be the fire about my feet, the smoke above my head;
So might I glow, a torch to show the path my heroes tread;
_My Captain! Oh, my Captain, let me go back!_" she said.

_Theodosia Garrison_




O GLORIOUS FRANCE


You have become a forge of snow-white fire,
A crucible of molten steel, O France!
Your sons are stars who cluster to a dawn
And fade in light for you, O glorious France!
They pass through meteor changes with a song
Which to all islands and all continents
Says life is neither comfort, wealth, nor fame,
Nor quiet hearthstones, friendship, wife nor child,
Nor love, nor youth's delight, nor manhood's power,
Nor many days spent in a chosen work,
Nor honored merit, nor the patterned theme
Of daily labor, nor the crowns nor wreaths
Of seventy years.

                  These are not all of life,
O France, whose sons amid the rolling thunder
Of cannon stand in trenches where the dead
Clog the ensanguined ice. But life to these
Prophetic and enraptured souls is vision,
And the keen ecstasy of fated strife,
And divination of the loss as gain,
And reading mysteries with brightened eyes
In fiery shock and dazzling pain before
The orient splendour of the face of Death,
As a great light beside a shadowy sea;
And in a high will's strenuous exercise,
Where the warmed spirit finds its fullest strength
And is no more afraid, and in the stroke
Of azure lightning when the hidden essence
And shifting meaning of man's spiritual worth
And mystical significance in time
Are instantly distilled to one clear drop
Which mirrors earth and heaven.

                   This is life
Flaming to heaven in a minute's span
When the breath of battle blows the smouldering spark.
And across these seas
We who cry Peace and treasure life and cling
To cities, happiness, or daily toil
For daily bread, or trail the long routine
Of seventy years, taste not the terrible wine
Whereof you drink, who drain and toss the cup
Empty and ringing by the finished feast;
Or have it shaken from your hand by sight
Of God against the olive woods.

As Joan of Arc amid the apple trees
With sacred joy first heard the voices, then
Obeying plunged at Orleans in a field
Of spears and lived her dream and died in fire,
Thou, France, hast heard the voices and hast lived
The dream and known the meaning of the dream,
And read its riddle: how the soul of man
May to one greatest purpose make itself
A lens of clearness, how it loves the cup
Of deepest truth, and how its bitterest gall
Turns sweet to soul's surrender.

                    And you say:
Take days for repetition, stretch your hands
For mocked renewal of familiar things:
The beaten path, the chair beside the window,
The crowded street, the task, the accustomed sleep,
And waking to the task, or many springs
Of lifted cloud, blue water, flowering fields--
The prison-house grows close no less, the feast
A place of memory sick for senses dulled
Down to the dusty end where pitiful Time
Grown weary cries Enough!

_Edgar Lee Masters_




TO FRANCE


Those who have stood for thy cause when the dark was around thee,
Those who have pierced through the shadows and shining have found thee,
Those who have held to their faith in thy courage and power,
Thy spirit, thy honor, thy strength for a terrible hour,
Now can rejoice that they see thee in light and in glory,
Facing whatever may come as an end to the story
In calm undespairing, with steady eyes fixed on the morrow--
The morn that is pregnant with blood and with death and with sorrow.
And whether the victory crowns thee, O France the eternal,
Or whether the smoke and the dusk of a nightfall infernal
Gather about thee, and us, and the foe; and all treasures
Run with the flooding of war into bottomless measures--
Fall what befalls: in this hour all those who are near thee
And all who have loved thee, they rise and salute and revere thee!

_Herbert Jones_




PLACE DE LA CONCORDE

AUGUST 14, 1914


[Since the bombardment of Strasburg, August 14, 1870, her statue in
Paris, representing Alsace, has been draped in mourning by the French
people.]

Near where the royal victims fell
In days gone by, caught in the swell
Of a ruthless tide
Of human passion, deep and wide:
There where we two
A Nation's later sorrow knew--
To-day, O friend! I stood
Amid a self-ruled multitude
That by nor sound nor word
Betrayed how mightily its heart was stirred,

A memory Time never could efface--
A memory of Grief--
Like a great Silence brooded o'er the place;
And men breathed hard, as seeking for relief
From an emotion strong
That would not cry, though held in check too long.

One felt that joy drew near--
A joy intense that seemed itself to fear--
Brightening in eyes that had been dull,
As all with feeling gazed
Upon the Strasburg figure, raised
Above us--mourning, beautiful!

Then one stood at the statue's base, and spoke--
Men needed not to ask what word;
Each in his breast the message heard,
Writ for him by Despair,
That evermore in moving phrase
Breathes from the Invalides and Pre Lachaise--
Vainly it seemed, alas!
But now, France looking on the image there,
Hope gave her back the lost Alsace.

A deeper hush fell on the crowd:
A sound--the lightest--seemed too loud
(Would, friend, you had been there!)
As to that form the speaker rose,
Took from her, fold on fold,
The mournful crape, gray-worn and old,
Her, proudly, to disclose,
And with the touch of tender care
That fond emotion speaks,
'Mid tears that none could quite command,
Placed the Tricolor in her hand,
And kissed her on both cheeks!

_Florence Earle Coates_




TO FRANCE


What is the gift we have given thee, Sister?
  What is the trust we have laid in thy hand?
Hearts of our bravest, our best, and our dearest,
  Blood of our blood we have sown in thy land.

What for all time will the harvest be, Sister?
  What will spring up from the seed that is sown?
Freedom and peace and goodwill among Nations,
  Love that will bind us with love all our own.

Bright is the path, that is opening before us,
  Upward and onward it mounts through the night;
Sword shall not sever the bonds that unite us
  Leading the world to the fullness of light.

Sorrow hath made thee more beautiful, Sister,
  Nobler and purer than ever before;
We who are chastened by sorrow and anguish
  Hail thee as sister and queen evermore.

_Frederick George Scott_




_QUI VIVE?_


_Qui vive?_ Who passes by up there?
Who moves--what stirs in the startled air?
What whispers, thrills, exults up there?
_Qui vive?_
        "The Flags of France."

What wind on a windless night is this,
That breathes as light as a lover's kiss,
That blows through the night with bugle notes,
That streams like a pennant from a lance,
That rustles, that floats?
        "The Flags of France."

What richly moves, what lightly stirs,
Like a noble lady in a dance,
When all men's eyes are in love with hers
And needs must follow?
        "The Flags of France."

What calls to the heart--and the heart has heard,
Speaks, and the soul has obeyed the word,
Summons, and all the years advance,
And the world goes forward with France--with France?
Who called?
        "The Flags of France."

What flies--a glory, through the night,
While the legions stream--a line of light,
And men fall to the left and fall to the right,
But _they_ fall not?
        "The Flags of France."

_Qui vive?_ Who comes? What approaches there?
What soundless tumult, what breath in the air
Takes the breath in the throat, the blood from the heart?
In a flame of dark, to the unheard beat
Of an unseen drum and fleshless feet,
Without glint of barrel or bayonets' glance,
They approach--they come. _Who_ comes? (Hush! Hark!)
_"Qui vive?"_
        "The Flags of France."

Uncover the head and kneel--kneel down,
A monarch passes, without a crown,
Let the proud tears fall but the heart beat high:
The Greatest of All is passing by,
On its endless march in the endless Plan:
"_Qui vive?_"
        "The Spirit of Man."

"O Spirit of Man, pass on! Advance!"
And they who lead, who hold the van?
Kneel down!
        The Flags of France.

_Grace Ellery Channing_

_Paris, 1917_




TO THE BELGIANS


O Race that Caesar knew,
That won stern Roman praise,
What land not envies you
The laurel of these days?

You built your cities rich
Around each towered hall,--
Without, the statued niche,
Within, the pictured wall.

Your ship-thronged wharves; your marts
With gorgeous Venice vied.
Peace and her famous arts
Were yours: though tide on tide

Of Europe's battle scourged
Black field and reddened soil,
From blood and smoke emerged
Peace and her fruitful toil.

Yet when the challenge rang,
"The War-Lord comes; give room!"
Fearless to arms you sprang
Against the odds of doom.

Like your own Damien
Who sought that leper's isle
To die a simple man
For men with tranquil smile,

So strong in faith you dared
Defy the giant, scorn
Ignobly to be spared,
Though trampled, spoiled, and torn,

And in your faith arose
And smote, and smote again,
Till those astonished foes
Reeled from their mounds of slain,

The faith that the free soul,
Untaught by force to quail,
Through fire and dirge and dole
Prevails and shall prevail.

Still for your frontier stands
The host that knew no dread,
Your little, stubborn land's
Nameless, immortal dead.

_Laurence Binyon_




BELGIUM


_La Belgique ne regrette rien_

Not with her ruined silver spires,
Not with her cities shamed and rent,
Perish the imperishable fires
That shape the homestead from the tent.

Wherever men are staunch and free,
There shall she keep her fearless state,
And homeless, to great nations be
The home of all that makes them great.

_Edith Wharton_




TO BELGIUM


Champion of human honour, let us lave
  Your feet and bind your wounds on bended knee.
  Though coward hands have nailed you to the tree
And shed your innocent blood and dug your grave,
Rejoice and live! Your oriflamme shall wave--
  While man has power to perish and be free--
  A golden flame of holiest Liberty,
Proud as the dawn and as the sunset brave.

Belgium, where dwelleth reverence for right
  Enthroned above all ideals; where your fate
And your supernal patience and your might
  Most sacred grow in human estimate,
You shine a star above this stormy night
  Little no more, but infinitely great.

_Eden Phillpotts_




TO BELGIUM IN EXILE


[Lines dedicated to one of her priests, by whose words they were
prompted.]

Land of the desolate, Mother of tears,
  Weeping your beauty marred and torn,
Your children tossed upon the spears,
  Your altars rent, your hearths forlorn,
Where Spring has no renewing spell,
And Love no language save a long Farewell!

Ah, precious tears, and each a pearl,
  Whose price--for so in God we trust
Who saw them fall in that blind swirl
  Of ravening flame and reeking dust--
The spoiler with his life shall pay,
When Justice at the last demands her Day.

O tried and proved, whose record stands
  Lettered in blood too deep to fade,
Take courage! Never in our hands
  Shall the avenging sword be stayed
Till you are healed of all your pain,
And come with Honour to your own again.

_Owen Seaman_

_May 19, 1915_




THE WIFE OF FLANDERS


Low and brown barns, thatched and repatched and tattered,
  Where I had seven sons until to-day,
A little hill of hay your spur has scattered....
  This is not Paris. You have lost the way.

You, staring at your sword to find it brittle,
  Surprised at the surprise that was your plan,
Who, shaking and breaking barriers not a little,
  Find never more the death-door of Sedan--

Must I for more than carnage call you claimant,
  Paying you a penny for each son you slay?
Man, the whole globe in gold were no repayment
  For what _you_ have lost. And how shall I repay?

What is the price of that red spark that caught me
  From a kind farm that never had a name?
What is the price of that dead man they brought me?
  For other dead men do not look the same.

How should I pay for one poor graven steeple
  Whereon you shattered what you shall not know?
How should I pay you, miserable people?
  How should I pay you everything you owe?

Unhappy, can I give you back your honour?
  Though I forgave, would any man forget?
While all the great green land has trampled on her
  The treason and terror of the night we met.

Not any more in vengeance or in pardon
  An old wife bargains for a bean that's hers.
You have no word to break: no heart to harden.
  Ride on and prosper. You have lost your spurs.

_Gilbert Keith Chesterton_




RUSSIA--AMERICA


A wind in the world! The dark departs;
The chains now rust that crushed men's flesh and bones,
Feet tread no more the mildewed prison stones,
And slavery is lifted from your hearts.

A wind in the world! O Company
Of darkened Russia, watching long in vain,
Now shall you see the cloud of Russia's pain
Go shrinking out across a summer sky.

A wind in the world! Our God shall be
In all the future left, no kingly doll
Decked out with dreadful sceptre, steel, and stole,
But walk the earth--a man, in Charity.

       *       *       *       *       *

A wind in the world! And doubts are blown
To dust along, and the old stars come forth--
Stars of a creed to Pilgrim Fathers worth
A field of broken spears and flowers strown.

A wind in the world! Now truancy
From the true self is ended; to her part
Steadfast again she moves, and from her heart
A great America cries: Death to Tyranny!

A wind in the world! And we have come
Together, sea by sea; in all the lands
Vision doth move at last, and Freedom stands
With brightened wings, and smiles and beckons home!

_John Galsworthy_




TO RUSSIA NEW AND FREE


  Land of the Martyrs--of the martyred dead
    And martyred living--now of noble fame!
  Long wert thou saddest of the nations, wed
    To Sorrow as the fire to the flame,
Not yet relentless History had writ of Teuton shame.

  Thou knewest all the gloom of hope deferred.
    'Twixt God and Russia wrong had built such bar
  Each by the other could no more be heard.
    Seen through the cloud, the child's familiar star,
That once made Heaven near, had made it seem more far.

  Land of the Breaking Dawn! No more look back
    To that long night that nevermore can be:
  The sunless dungeon and the exile's track.
    To the world's dreams of terror let it flee.
To gentle April cruel March is now antiquity.

  Yet--of the Past one sacred relic save:
    That boundary-post 'twixt Russia and Despair,--
  Set where the dead might look upon his grave,--
    Kissed by him with his last-breathed Russian air.
Keep it to witness to the world what heroes still may dare.

  Land of New Hope, no more the minor key,
    No more the songs of exile long and lone;
  Thy tears henceforth be tears of memory.
    Sing, with the joy the joyless would have known
Who for this visioned happiness so gladly gave their own.

  Land of the warm heart and the friendly hand,
    Strike the free chord; no more the muted strings!
  Forever let the equal record stand--
    A thousand winters for this Spring of Springs,
That to a warring world, through thee, millennial longing brings.

  On thy white tablets, cleansed of royal stain,
    What message to the future mayst thou write!--
  The People's Law, the bulwark of their reign,
    And vigilant Liberty, of ancient might,
And Brotherhood, that can alone lead to the loftiest height.

  Take, then, our hearts' rejoicing overflow,
    Thou new-born daughter of Democracy,
  Whose coming sets the expectant earth aglow.
    Soon the glad skies thy proud new flag shall see,
And hear thy chanted hymns of hope for Russia new and free.

_Robert Underwood Johnson_

_April, 1917_




ITALY IN ARMS


Of all my dreams by night and day,
    One dream will evermore return,
The dream of Italy in May;
    The sky a brimming azure urn
    Where lights of amber brood and burn;
The doves about San Marco's square,
    The swimming Campanile tower,
    The giants, hammering out the hour,
        The palaces, the bright lagoons,
The gondolas gliding here and there
        Upon the tide that sways and swoons.

The domes of San Antonio,
    Where Padua 'mid her mulberry-trees
Reclines; Adige's crescent flow
    Beneath Verona's balconies;
    Rich Florence of the Medicis;
Sienna's starlike streets that climb
    From hill to hill; Assisi well
    Remembering the holy spell
        Of rapt St. Francis; with her crown
Of battlements, embossed by time,
        Stern old Perugia looking down.

Then, mother of great empires, Rome,
    City of the majestic past,
That o'er far leagues of alien foam
    The shadows of her eagles cast,
    Imperious still; impending, vast,

The Colosseum's curving line;
    Pillar and arch and colonnade;
    St. Peter's consecrated shade,
        And Hadrian's tomb where Tiber strays;
The ruins on the Palatine
        With all their memories of dead days.

And Naples, with her sapphire arc
    Of bay, her perfect sweep of shore;
Above her, like a demon stark,
    The dark fire-mountain evermore
    Looming portentous, as of yore;
Fair Capri with her cliffs and caves;
    Salerno drowsing 'mid her vines
    And olives, and the shattered shrines
        Of Paestum where the gray ghosts tread,
And where the wilding rose still waves
        As when by Greek girls garlanded.

But hark! What sound the ear dismays,
    Mine Italy, mine Italy?
Thou that wert wrapt in peace, the haze
    Of loveliness spread over thee!
    Yet since the grapple needs must be,
I who have wandered in the night
    With Dante, Petrarch's Laura known,
    Seen Vallombrosa's groves breeze-blown,
        Met Angelo and Raffael,
Against iconoclastic might
        In this grim hour must wish thee well!

_Clinton Scollard_




ON THE ITALIAN FRONT, MCMXVI


"I will die cheering, if I needs must die;
  So shall my last breath write upon my lips
  _Viva Italia!_ when my spirit slips
Down the great darkness from the mountain sky;
And those who shall behold me where I lie
  Shall murmur: 'Look, you! how his spirit dips
  From glory into glory! the eclipse
Of death is vanquished! Lo, his victor-cry!'

"Live, thou, upon my lips, Italia mine,
  The sacred death-cry of my frozen clay!
Let thy dear light from my dead body shine
  And to the passer-by thy message say:
'_Ecco!_ though heaven has made my skies divine,
My sons' love sanctifies my soil for aye!'"

_George Edward Woodberry_




AUSTRALIA TO ENGLAND


By all the deeds to Thy dear glory done,
  By all the life blood, spilt to serve Thy need,
  By all the fettered lives Thy touch hath freed,
By all Thy dream in us anew begun;
By all the guerdon English sire to son
  Hath given of highest vision, kingliest deed,
  By all Thine agony, of God decreed
For trial and strength, our fate with Thine is one.

Still dwells Thy spirit in our hearts and lips,
  Honour and life we hold from none but Thee,
    And if we live Thy pensioners no more
But seek a nation's might of men and ships,
    'T is but that when the world is black with war
  Thy sons may stand beside Thee strong and free.

_Archibald T. Strong_

_August, 1914_




CANADA TO ENGLAND


Great names of thy great captains gone before
  Beat with our blood, who have that blood of thee:
  Raleigh and Grenville, Wolfe, and all the free
Fine souls who dared to front a world in war.
Such only may outreach the envious years
  Where feebler crowns and fainter stars remove,
  Nurtured in one remembrance and one love
Too high for passion and too stern for tears.

O little isle our fathers held for home,
  Not, not alone thy standards and thy hosts
    Lead where thy sons shall follow, Mother Land:
Quick as the north wind, ardent as the foam,
  Behold, behold the invulnerable ghosts
    Of all past greatnesses about thee stand.

_Marjorie L.C. Pickthall_




LANGEMARCK AT YPRES


This is the ballad of Langemarck,
  A story of glory and might;
Of the vast Hun horde, and Canada's part
  In the great grim fight.

It was April fair on the Flanders Fields,
  But the dreadest April then
That ever the years, in their fateful flight,
  Had brought to this world of men.

North and east, a monster wall,
  The mighty Hun ranks lay,
With fort on fort, and iron-ringed trench,
  Menacing, grim and gray.

And south and west, like a serpent of fire,
  Serried the British lines,
And in between, the dying and dead,
And the stench of blood, and the trampled mud,
  On the fair, sweet Belgian vines.

And far to the eastward, harnessed and taut,
  Like a scimitar, shining and keen,
Gleaming out of that ominous gloom,
  Old France's hosts were seen.

When out of the grim Hun lines one night,
  There rolled a sinister smoke;--
A strange, weird cloud, like a pale, green shroud,
  And death lurked in its cloak.

On a fiend-like wind it curled along
  Over the brave French ranks,
Like a monster tree its vapours spread,
  In hideous, burning banks
Of poisonous fumes that scorched the night
  With their sulphurous demon danks.

And men went mad with horror, and fled
  From that terrible, strangling death,
That seemed to sear both body and soul
  With its baleful, flaming breath.

Till even the little dark men of the south,
  Who feared neither God nor man,
Those fierce, wild fighters of Afric's steppes,
  Broke their battalions and ran:--

Ran as they never had run before,
  Gasping, and fainting for breath;
For they knew 't was no human foe that slew;
  And that hideous smoke meant death.

Then red in the reek of that evil cloud,
  The Hun swept over the plain;
And the murderer's dirk did its monster work,
  'Mid the scythe-like shrapnel rain;

Till it seemed that at last the brute Hun hordes
  Had broken that wall of steel;
And that soon, through this breach in the freeman's dyke,
  His trampling hosts would wheel;--

And sweep to the south in ravaging might,
  And Europe's peoples again
Be trodden under the tyrant's heel,
  Like herds, in the Prussian pen.

But in that line on the British right,
  There massed a corps amain,
Of men who hailed from a far west land
  Of mountain and forest and plain;

Men new to war and its dreadest deeds,
  But noble and staunch and true;
Men of the open, East and West,
  Brew of old Britain's brew.

These were the men out there that night,
  When Hell loomed close ahead;
Who saw that pitiful, hideous rout,
  And breathed those gases dread;
While some went under and some went mad;
  But never a man there fled.

For the word was "Canada," theirs to fight,
  And keep on fighting still;--
Britain said, fight, and fight they would,
Though the Devil himself in sulphurous mood
  Came over that hideous hill.

Yea, stubborn, they stood, that hero band,
  Where no soul hoped to live;
For five, 'gainst eighty thousand men,
  Were hopeless odds to give.

Yea, fought they on! 'T was Friday eve,
  When that demon gas drove down;
'T was Saturday eve that saw them still
  Grimly holding their own;

Sunday, Monday, saw them yet,
  A steadily lessening band,
With "no surrender" in their hearts,
  But the dream of a far-off land,

Where mother and sister and love would weep
  For the hushed heart lying still;--
But never a thought but to do their part,
  And work the Empire's will.

Ringed round, hemmed in, and back to back,
  They fought there under the dark,
And won for Empire, God and Right,
  At grim, red Langemarck.

Wonderful battles have shaken this world,
  Since the Dawn-God overthrew Dis;
Wonderful struggles of right against wrong,
Sung in the rhymes of the world's great song,
  But never a greater than this.

Bannockburn, Inkerman, Balaclava,
  Marathon's godlike stand;
But never a more heroic deed,
And never a greater warrior breed,
  In any war-man's land.

This is the ballad of Langemarck,
  A story of glory and might;
Of the vast Hun horde, and Canada's part
  In the great, grim fight.

_Wilfred Campbell_




CANADIANS


With arrows on their quarters and with numbers on their hoofs,
With the trampling sound of twenty that re-echoes in the roofs,
Low of crest and dull of coat, wan and wild of eye,
Through our English village the Canadians go by.

Shying at a passing cart, swerving from a car,
Tossing up an anxious head to flaunt a snowy star,
Racking at a Yankee gait, reaching at the rein,
Twenty raw Canadians are tasting life again!

Hollow-necked and hollow-flanked, lean of rib and hip,
Strained and sick and weary with the wallow of the ship,
Glad to smell the turf again, hear the robin's call,
Tread again the country road they lost at Montreal!

Fate may bring them dule and woe; better steeds than they
Sleep beside the English guns a hundred leagues away;
But till war hath need of them, lightly lie their reins,
Softly fall the feet of them along the English lanes.

_Will H. Ogilvie_




THE KAISER AND BELGIUM


He said: "Thou petty people, let me pass.
  What canst thou do but bow to me and kneel?"
But sudden a dry land caught fire like grass,
  And answer hurtled but from shell and steel.

He looked for silence, but a thunder came
  Upon him, from Lige a leaden hail.
All Belgium flew up at his throat in flame
  Till at her gates amazed his legions quail.

Take heed, for now on haunted ground they tread;
  There bowed a mightier war lord to his fall:
Fear! lest that very green grass again grow red
  With blood of German now as then with Gaul.

If him whom God destroys He maddens first,
Then thy destruction slake thy madman's thirst.

_Stephen Phillips_




THE BATTLE OF LIGE


Now spake the Emperor to all his shining battle forces,
To the Lancers, and the Rifles, to the Gunners and the Horses;--
And his pride surged up within him as he saw their banners stream!--
"'T is a twelve-day march to Paris, by the road our fathers travelled,
And the prize is half an empire when the scarlet road's unravelled--
Go you now across the border,
God's decree and William's order--
Climb the frowning Belgian ridges
With your naked swords agleam!
Seize the City of the Bridges--
Then get on, get on to Paris--
To the jewelled streets of Paris--
To the lovely woman, Paris, that has driven me to dream!"

A hundred thousand fighting men
They climbed the frowning ridges,
With their flaming swords drawn free
And their pennants at their knee.
They went up to their desire,
To the City of the Bridges,
With their naked brands outdrawn
Like the lances of the dawn!
In a swelling surf of fire,
Crawling higher--higher--higher--
Till they crumpled up and died
Like a sudden wasted tide,
And the thunder in their faces beat them down and flung them wide!

They had paid a thousand men,
Yet they formed and came again,
For they heard the silver bugles sounding challenge to their pride,
And they rode with swords agleam
For the glory of a dream,
And they stormed up to the cannon's mouth and withered there, and
  died....
The daylight lay in ashes
On the blackened western hill,
And the dead were calm and still;
But the Night was torn with gashes--
Sudden ragged crimson gashes--
And the siege-guns snarled and roared,
With their flames thrust like a sword,
And the tranquil moon came riding on the heaven's silver ford.

What a fearful world was there,
Tangled in the cold moon's hair!
Man and beast lay hurt and screaming,
(Men must die when Kings are dreaming!)--
While within the harried town
Mothers dragged their children down
As the awful rain came screaming,
For the glory of a Crown!

So the Morning flung her cloak
Through the hanging pall of smoke--
Trimmed with red, it was, and dripping with a deep and angry stain!
And the Day came walking then
Through a lane of murdered men,
And her light fell down before her like a Cross upon the plain!
But the forts still crowned the height
With a bitter iron crown!
They had lived to flame and fight,
They had lived to keep the Town!
And they poured their havoc down
All that day ... and all that night....
While four times their number came,
Pawns that played a bloody game!--
With a silver trumpeting,
For the glory of the King,
To the barriers of the thunder and the fury of the flame!

So they stormed the iron Hill,
O'er the sleepers lying still,
And their trumpets sang them forward through the dull succeeding dawns,
But the thunder flung them wide,
And they crumpled up and died,--
They had waged the war of monarchs--and they died the death of pawns.

But the forts still stood.... Their breath
Swept the foeman like a blade,
Though ten thousand men were paid
To the hungry purse of Death,
Though the field was wet with blood,
Still the bold defences stood,
Stood!

And the King came out with his bodyguard at the day's departing gleam--
And the moon rode up behind the smoke and showed the King his dream.

_Dana Burnet_




MEN OF VERDUN


There are five men in the moonlight
  That by their shadows stand;
Three hobble humped on crutches,
  And two lack each a hand.

Frogs somewhere near the roadside
  Chorus their chant absorbed:
But a hush breathes out of the dream-light
  That far in heaven is orbed.

It is gentle as sleep falling
  And wide as thought can span,
The ancient peace and wonder
  That brims the heart of man.

Beyond the hills it shines now
  On no peace but the dead,
On reek of trenches thunder-shocked,
Tense fury of wills in wrestle locked,
  A chaos crumbled red!

The five men in the moonlight
  Chat, joke, or gaze apart.
They talk of days and comrades,
  But each one hides his heart.

They wear clean cap and tunic,
  As when they went to war;
A gleam comes where the medal's pinned:
  But they will fight no more.

The shadows, maimed and antic,
  Gesture and shape distort,
Like mockery of a demon dumb
Out of the hell-din whence they come
  That dogs them for his sport:

But as if dead men were risen
  And stood before me there
With a terrible fame about them blown
  In beams of spectral air,

I see them, men transfigured
  As in a dream, dilate
Fabulous with the Titan-throb
  Of battling Europe's fate;

For history's hushed before them,
  And legend flames afresh,--
Verdun, the name of thunder,
  Is written on their flesh.

_Laurence Binyon_




VERDUN


Three hundred thousand men, but not enough
To break this township on a winding stream;
More yet must fall, and more, ere the red stuff
That built a nation's manhood may redeem
The Master's hopes and realize his dream.

They pave the way to Verdun; on their dust
The Hohenzollerns mount and, hand in hand,
Gaze haggard south; for yet another thrust
And higher hills must heap, ere they may stand
To feed their eyes upon the promised land.

One barrow, borne of women, lifts them high,
Built up of many a thousand human dead.
Nursed on their mothers' bosoms, now they lie--
A Golgotha, all shattered, torn and sped,
A mountain for these royal feet to tread.

A Golgotha, upon whose carrion clay
Justice of myriad men still in the womb
Shall heave two crosses; crucify and flay
Two memories accurs'd; then in the tomb
Of world-wide execration give them room.

Verdun! A clarion thy name shall ring
Adown the ages and the Nations see
Thy monuments of glory. Now we bring
Thank-offering and bend the reverent knee,
Thou star upon the crown of Liberty!

_Eden Phillpotts_




GUNS OF VERDUN


Guns of Verdun point to Metz
From the plated parapets;
Guns of Metz grin back again
O'er the fields of fair Lorraine.

Guns of Metz are long and grey,
Growling through a summer day;
Guns of Verdun, grey and long,
Boom an echo of their song.

Guns of Metz to Verdun roar,
"Sisters, you shall foot the score;"
Guns of Verdun say to Metz,
"Fear not, for we pay our debts."

Guns of Metz they grumble, "When?"
Guns of Verdun answer then,
"Sisters, when to guard Lorraine
Gunners lay you East again!"

_Patrick R. Chalmers_




THE SPIRES OF OXFORD


I saw the spires of Oxford
  As I was passing by,
The gray spires of Oxford
  Against the pearl-gray sky.
My heart was with the Oxford men
  Who went abroad to die.

The years go fast in Oxford,
  The golden years and gay,
The hoary Colleges look down
  On careless boys at play.
But when the bugles sounded war
  They put their games away.

They left the peaceful river,
  The cricket-field, the quad,
The shaven lawns of Oxford,
  To seek a bloody sod--
They gave their merry youth away
  For country and for God.

God rest you, happy gentlemen,
  Who laid your good lives down,
Who took the khaki and the gun
  Instead of cap and gown.
God bring you to a fairer place
  Than even Oxford town.

_Winifred M. Letts_




OXFORD IN WAR-TIME


[The Boat Race will not be held this year (1915). The whole of last
year's Oxford Eight and the great majority of the cricket and football
teams are serving the King.]

Under the tow-path past the barges
  Never an eight goes flashing by;
Never a blatant coach on the marge is
  Urging his crew to do or die;
Never the critic we knew enlarges,
  Fluent, on How and Why!

Once by the Iffley Road November
  Welcomed the Football men aglow,
Covered with mud, as you'll remember,
  Eager to vanquish Oxford's foe.
Where are the teams of last December?
  Gone--where they had to go!

Where are her sons who waged at cricket
  Warfare against the foeman-friend?
Far from the Parks, on a harder wicket,
  Still they attack and still defend;
Playing a greater game, they'll stick it,
  Fearless until the end!

Oxford's goodliest children leave her,
  Hastily thrusting books aside;
Still the hurrying weeks bereave her,
  Filling her heart with joy and pride;
Only the thought of you can grieve her,
  You who have fought and died.

_W. Snow_




OXFORD REVISITED IN WAR-TIME


Beneath fair Magdalen's storied towers
I wander in a dream,
And hear the mellow chimes float out
O'er Cherwell's ice-bound stream.

Throstle and blackbird stiff with cold
Hop on the frozen grass;
Among the aged, upright oaks
The dun deer slowly pass.

The chapel organ rolls and swells,
And voices still praise God;
But ah! the thought of youthful friends
Who lie beneath the sod.

Now wounded men with gallant eyes
Go hobbling down the street,
And nurses from the hospitals
Speed by with tireless feet.

The town is full of uniforms,
And through the stormy sky,
Frightening the rooks from the tallest trees,
The aeroplanes roar by.

The older faces still are here,
More grave and true and kind,
Ennobled by the steadfast toil
Of patient heart and mind.

And old-time friends are dearer grown
To fill a double place:
Unshaken faith makes glorious
Each forward-looking face.

Old Oxford walls are grey and worn:
She knows the truth of tears,
But to-day she stands in her ancient pride
Crowned with eternal years.

Gone are her sons: yet her heart is glad
In the glory of their youth,
For she brought them forth to live or die
By freedom, justice, truth.

Cold moonlight falls on silent towers;
The young ghosts walk with the old;
But Oxford dreams of the dawn of May
And her heart is free and bold.

_Tertius van Dyke_

_Magdalen College_,

_January, 1917_




SONNETS WRITTEN IN THE FALL OF
1914


I

Awake, ye nations, slumbering supine,
  Who round enring the European fray!
  Heard ye the trumpet sound? "The Day! the Day!
The last that shall on England's Empire shine!
The Parliament that broke the Right Divine
  Shall see her realm of reason swept away,
  And lesser nations shall the sword obey--
The sword o'er all carve the great world's design!"

So on the English Channel boasts the foe
  On whose imperial brow death's helmet nods.
Look where his hosts o'er bloody Belgium go,
  And mix a nation's past with blazing sods!
A kingdom's waste! a people's homeless woe!
  Man's broken Word, and violated gods!


II

Far fall the day when England's realm shall see
  The sunset of dominion! Her increase
  Abolishes the man-dividing seas,
And frames the brotherhood on earth to be!
She, in free peoples planting sovereignty,
  Orbs half the civil world in British peace;
  And though time dispossess her, and she cease,
Rome-like she greatens in man's memory.

Oh, many a crown shall sink in war's turmoil,
  And many a new republic light the sky,
Fleets sweep the ocean, nations till the soil,
  Genius be born and generations die.
Orient and Occident together toil,
  Ere such a mighty work man rears on high!


III

Hearken, the feet of the Destroyer tread
  The wine-press of the nations; fast the blood
  Pours from the side of Europe; in the flood
On the septentrional watershed
The rivers of fair France are running red!
  England, the mother-aerie of our brood,
  That on the summit of dominion stood,
Shakes in the blast: heaven battles overhead!

Lift up thy head, O Rheims, of ages heir
  That treasured up in thee their glorious sum;
Upon whose brow, prophetically fair,
  Flamed the great morrow of the world to come;
Haunt with thy beauty this volcanic air
  Ere yet thou close, O Flower of Christendom!


IV

As when the shadow of the sun's eclipse
  Sweeps on the earth, and spreads a spectral air,
  As if the universe were dying there,
On continent and isle the darkness dips
Unwonted gloom, and on the Atlantic slips;
  So in the night the Belgian cities flare
  Horizon-wide; the wandering people fare
Along the roads, and load the fleeing ships.

And westward borne that planetary sweep
  Darkening o'er England and her times to be,
Already steps upon the ocean-deep!
  Watch well, my country, that unearthly sea,
Lest when thou thinkest not, and in thy sleep,
  Unapt for war, that gloom enshadow thee.


V

I pray for peace; yet peace is but a prayer.
  How many wars have been in my brief years!
  All races and all faiths, both hemispheres,
My eyes have seen embattled everywhere
The wide earth through; yet do I not despair
  Of peace, that slowly through far ages nears;
  Though not to me the golden morn appears,
My faith is perfect in time's issue fair.

For man doth build on an eternal scale,
  And his ideals are framed of hope deferred;
The millennium came not; yet Christ did not fail,
  Though ever unaccomplished is His word;
Him Prince of Peace, though unenthroned, we hail,
  Supreme when in all bosoms He be heard.


VI

This is my faith, and my mind's heritage,
  Wherein I toil, though in a lonely place,
  Who yet world-wide survey the human race
Unequal from wild nature disengage
Body and soul, and life's old strife assuage;
  Still must abide, till heaven perfect its grace,
  And love grown wisdom sweeten in man's face,
Alike the Christian and the heathen rage.

The tutelary genius of mankind
  Ripens by slow degrees the final State,
That in the soul shall its foundations find
  And only in victorious love grow great;
Patient the heart must be, humble the mind,
  That doth the greater births of time await!


VII

Whence not unmoved I see the nations form
  From Dover to the fountains of the Rhine,
  A hundred leagues, the scarlet battle-line,
And by the Vistula great armies swarm,
A vaster flood; rather my breast grows warm,
  Seeing all peoples of the earth combine
  Under one standard, with one countersign,
Grown brothers in the universal storm.

And never through the wide world yet there rang
  A mightier summons! O Thou who from the side
Of Athens and the loins of Casar sprang,
  Strike, Europe, with half the coming world allied
For those ideals for which, since Homer sang,
  The hosts of thirty centuries have died.

_George Edward Woodberry_




THE WAR FILMS


O living pictures of the dead,
  O songs without a sound,
O fellowship whose phantom tread
  Hallows a phantom ground--
How in a gleam have these revealed
  The faith we had not found.

We have sought God in a cloudy Heaven,
  We have passed by God on earth:
His seven sins and his sorrows seven,
  His wayworn mood and mirth,
Like a ragged cloak have hid from us
  The secret of his birth.

Brother of men, when now I see
  The lads go forth in line,
Thou knowest my heart is hungry in me
  As for thy bread and wine;
Thou knowest my heart is bowed in me
  To take their death for mine.

_Henry Newbolt_




THE SEARCHLIGHTS


[Political morality differs from individual morality, because there is
no power above the State.--_General von Bernhardt_]

Shadow by shadow, stripped for fight,
  The lean black cruisers search the sea.
Night-long their level shafts of light
  Revolve, and find no enemy.
Only they know each leaping wave
May hide the lightning, and their grave.

And in the land they guard so well
  Is there no silent watch to keep?
An age is dying, and the bell
  Rings midnight on a vaster deep.
But over all its waves, once more
The searchlights move, from shore to shore.

And captains that we thought were dead,
  And dreamers that we thought were dumb,
And voices that we thought were fled,
  Arise, and call us, and we come;
And "Search in thine own soul," they cry;
"For there, too, lurks thine enemy."

Search for the foe in thine own soul,
  The sloth, the intellectual pride;
The trivial jest that veils the goal
  For which, our fathers lived and died;
The lawless dreams, the cynic Art,
That rend thy nobler self apart.

Not far, not far into the night,
  These level swords of light can pierce;
Yet for her faith does England fight,
  Her faith in this our universe,
Believing Truth and Justice draw
From founts of everlasting law;

The law that rules the stars, our stay,
  Our compass through the world's wide sea.
The one sure light, the one sure way,
  The one firm base of Liberty;
The one firm road that men have trod
Through Chaos to the throne of God.

Therefore a Power above the State,
  The unconquerable Power, returns,
The fire, the fire that made her great
  Once more upon her altar burns,
Once more, redeemed and healed and whole,
She moves to the Eternal Goal.

_Alfred Noyes_




CHRISTMAS: 1915


Now is the midnight of the nations: dark
  Even as death, beside her blood-dark seas,
  Earth, like a mother in birth agonies,
Screams in her travail, and the planets hark
Her million-throated terror. Naked, stark,
  Her torso writhes enormous, and her knees
  Shudder against the shadowed Pleiades,
Wrenching the night's imponderable arc.

Christ! What shall be delivered to the morn
  Out of these pangs, if ever indeed another
  Morn shall succeed this night, or this vast mother
Survive to know the blood-spent offspring, torn
  From her racked flesh?--What splendour from the smother?
What new-wing'd world, or mangled god still-born?

_Percy MacKaye_




"MEN WHO MARCH AWAY"

(SONG OF THE SOLDIERS)


What of the faith and fire within us
  Men who march away
  Ere the barn-cocks say
  Night is growing gray,
To hazards whence no tears can win us;
What of the faith and fire within us
  Men who march away!

Is it a purblind prank, O think you,
  Friend with the musing eye
  Who watch us stepping by,
  With doubt and dolorous sigh?
Can much pondering so hoodwink you?
Is it a purblind prank, O think you,
  Friend with the musing eye?

Nay. We see well what we are doing,
  Though some may not see--
  Dalliers as they be--
  England's need are we;
Her distress would leave us rueing;
Nay. We well see what we are doing,
  Though some may not see!

In our heart of hearts believing
  Victory crowns the just,
  And that braggarts must
  Surely bite the dust,
Press we to the field ungrieving,
In our heart of hearts believing
  Victory crowns the just.

Hence the faith and fire within us
  Men who march away
  Ere the barn-cocks say
  Night is growing gray,
To hazards whence no tears can win us;
Hence the faith and fire within us
  Men who march away.

_Thomas Hardy_

_September 5, 1914_




WE WILLED IT NOT


We willed it not. We have not lived in hate,
Loving too well the shires of England thrown
From sea to sea to covet your estate,
Or wish one flight of fortune from your throne.

We had grown proud because the nations stood
Hoping together against the calumny
That, tortured of its old barbarian blood,
Barbarian still the heart of man should be.

Builders there are who name you overlord,
Building with us the citadels of light,
Who hold as we this chartered sin abhorred,
And cry you risen Caesar of the Night.

Beethoven speaks with Milton on this day,
And Shakespeare's word with Goethe's beats the sky,
In witness of the birthright you betray,
In witness of the vision you deny.

We love the hearth, the quiet hills, the song,
The friendly gossip come from every land;
And very peace were now a nameless wrong--
You thrust this bitter quarrel to our hand.

For this your pride the tragic armies go,
And the grim navies watch along the seas;
You trade in death, you mock at life, you throw
To God the tumult of your blasphemies.

You rob us of our love-right. It is said.
In treason to the world, you are enthroned,
We rise, and, by the yet ungathered dead,
Not lightly shall the treason be atoned.

_John Drinkwater_




THE DEATH OF PEACE


Now slowly sinks the day-long labouring Sun
Behind the tranquil trees and old church-tower;
And we who watch him know our day is done;
For us too comes the evening--and the hour.

The sunbeams slanting through those ancient trees,
The sunlit lichens burning on the byre,
The lark descending, and the homing bees,
Proclaim the sweet relief all things desire.

Golden the river brims beneath the west,
And holy peace to all the world is given;
The songless stockdove preens her ruddied breast;
The blue smoke windeth like a prayer to heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

O old, old England, land of golden peace,
Thy fields are spun with gossameres of gold,
And golden garners gather thy increase,
And plenty crowns thy loveliness untold.

By sunlight or by starlight ever thou
Art excellent in beauty manifold;
The still star victory ever gems thy brow;
Age cannot age thee, ages make thee old.

Thy beauty brightens with the evening sun
Across the long-lit meads and distant spire:
So sleep thou well--like his thy labour done;
Rest in thy glory as he rests in fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

But even in this hour of soft repose
A gentle sadness chides us like a friend--
The sorrow of the joy that overflows,
The burden of the beauty that must end.

And from the fading sunset comes a cry,
And in the twilight voices wailing past,
Like wild-swans calling, "When we rest we die,
And woe to them that linger and are last";

And as the Sun sinks, sudden in heav'n new born
There shines an armed Angel like a Star,
Who cries above the darkling world in scorn,
"God comes to Judgment. Learn ye what ye are."

       *       *       *       *       *

From fire to umber fades the sunset-gold,
From umber into silver and twilight;
The infant flowers their orisons have told
And turn together folded for the night;

The garden urns are black against the eve;
The white moth flitters through the fragrant glooms;
How beautiful the heav'ns!--But yet we grieve
And wander restless from the lighted rooms.

For through the world to-night a murmur thrills
As at some new-born prodigy of time--
Peace dies like twilight bleeding on the hills,
And Darkness creeps to hide the hateful crime.


Art thou no more, O Maiden Heaven-born
O Peace, bright Angel of the windless morn?
Who comest down to bless our furrow'd fields,
Or stand like Beauty smiling 'mid the corn:

Mistress of mirth and ease and summer dreams,
Who lingerest among the woods and streams
To help us heap the harvest 'neath the moon,
And homeward laughing lead the lumb'ring teams:

Who teachest to our children thy wise lore;
Who keepest full the goodman's golden store;
Who crownest Life with plenty, Death with flow'rs;
Peace, Queen of Kindness--but of earth, no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not thine but ours the fault, thy care was vain;
For this that we have done be ours the pain;
Thou gayest much, as He who gave us all,
And as we slew Him for it thou art slain.

Heav'n left to men the moulding of their fate:
To live as wolves or pile the pillar'd State--
Like boars and bears to grunt and growl in mire,
Or dwell aloft, effulgent gods, elate.

Thou liftedst us: we slew and with thee fell--
From golden thrones of wisdom weeping fell.
Fate rends the chaplets from our feeble brows;
The spires of Heaven fade in fogs of hell.

       *       *       *       *       *

She faints, she falls; her dying eyes are dim;
Her fingers play with those bright buds she bore
To please us, but that she can bring no more;
And dying yet she smiles--as Christ on him
Who slew Him slain. Her eyes so beauteous
Are lit with tears shed--not for herself but us.

The gentle Beings of the hearth and home;
The lovely Dryads of her aisled woods;
The Angels that do dwell in solitudes
Where she dwelleth; and joyous Spirits that roam
To bless her bleating flocks and fruitful lands;
Are gather'd there to weep, and kiss her dying hands.

"Look, look," they cry, "she is not dead, she breathes!
And we have staunched the damned wound and deep,
The cavern-carven wound. She doth but sleep
And will awake. Bring wine, and new-wound wreaths
Wherewith to crown awaking her dear head,
And make her Queen again."--But no, for Peace was dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

And then there came black Lords; and Dwarfs obscene
With lavish tongues; and Trolls; and treacherous Things
Like loose-lipp'd Councillors and cruel Kings
Who sharpen lies and daggers subterrene:
And flashed their evil eyes and weeping cried,
"We ruled the world for Peace. By her own hand she died."

       *       *       *       *       *

In secret he made sharp the bitter blade,
And poison'd it with bane of lies and drew,
And stabb'd--O God! the Cruel Cripple slew;
And cowards fled or lent him trembling aid,
She fell and died--in all the tale of time
The direst deed e'er done, the most accursed crime.

_Ronald Ross_




IN WAR-TIME

(AN AMERICAN HOMEWARD-BOUND)


Further and further we leave the scene
  Of war--and of England's care;
I try to keep my mind serene--
  But my heart stays there;

For a distant song of pain and wrong
  My spirit doth deep confuse,
And I sit all day on the deck, and long--
  And long for news!

I seem to see them in battle-line--
  Heroes with hearts of gold,
But of their victory a sign
  The Fates withhold;

And the hours too tardy-footed pass,
  The voiceless hush grows dense
'Mid the imaginings, alas!
  That feed suspense.

Oh, might I lie on the wind, or fly
  In the wilful sea-bird's track,
Would I hurry on, with a homesick cry--
  Or hasten back?

_Florence Earle Coates_




THE ANVIL


Burned from the ore's rejected dross,
The iron whitens in the heat.
With plangent strokes of pain and loss
The hammers on the iron beat.
Searched by the fire, through death and dole
We feel the iron in our soul.

O dreadful Forge! if torn and bruised
The heart, more urgent comes our cry
Not to be spared but to be used,
Brain, sinew, and spirit, before we die.
Beat out the iron, edge it keen,
And shape us to the end we mean!

_Laurence Binyon_




THE FOOL RINGS HIS BELLS


Come, Death, I'd have a word with thee;
And thou, poor Innocency;
And Love--a lad with broken wing;
And Pity, too:
The Fool shall sing to you,
As Fools will sing.

Ay, music hath small sense,
And a tune's soon told,
And Earth is old,
And my poor wits are dense;
Yet have I secrets,--dark, my dear,
To breathe you all: Come near.
And lest some hideous listener tells,
I'll ring my bells.

They're all at war!
Yes, yes, their bodies go
'Neath burning sun and icy star
To chaunted songs of woe,
Dragging cold cannon through a mud
Of rain and blood;
The new moon glinting hard on eyes
Wide with insanities!

Hush!... I use words
I hardly know the meaning of;
And the mute birds
Are glancing at Love!
From out their shade of leaf and flower,
Trembling at treacheries

Which even in noonday cower,
Heed, heed not what I said
Of frenzied hosts of men,
More fools than I,
On envy, hatred fed,
Who kill, and die--
Spake I not plainly, then?
Yet Pity whispered, "Why?"

Thou silly thing, off to thy daisies go.
Mine was not news for child to know,
And Death--no ears hath. He hath supped where creep
Eyeless worms in hush of sleep;
Yet, when he smiles, the hand he draws
Athwart his grinning jaws
Faintly their thin bones rattle, and.... There, there;
Hearken how my bells in the air
Drive away care!...

Nay, but a dream I had
Of a world all mad.
Not a simple happy mad like me,
Who am mad like an empty scene
Of water and willow tree,
Where the wind hath been;
But that foul Satan-mad,
Who rots in his own head,
And counts the dead,
Not honest one--and two--
But for the ghosts they were,
Brave, faithful, true,
When, head in air,
In Earth's dear green and blue
Heaven they did share
With Beauty who bade them there....

There, now! he goes--
Old Bones; I've wearied him.
Ay, and the light doth dim,
And asleep's the rose,
And tired Innocence
In dreams is hence....
Come, Love, my lad,
Nodding that drowsy head,
'T is time thy prayers were said.

_Walter de la Mare_




THE ROAD TO DIEPPE


[Concerning the experiences of a journey on foot through the night of
August 4, 1914 (the night after the formal declaration of war between
England and Germany), from a town near Amiens, in France, to Dieppe,
a distance of somewhat more than forty miles.]

Before I knew, the Dawn was on the road,
Close at my side, so silently he came
Nor gave a sign of salutation, save
To touch with light my sleeve and make the way
Appear as if a shining countenance
Had looked on it. Strange was this radiant Youth,
As I, to these fair, fertile parts of France,
Where Caesar with his legions once had passed,
And where the Kaiser's Uhlans yet would pass
Or e'er another moon should cope with clouds
For mastery of these same fields.--To-night
(And but a month has gone since I walked there)
Well might the Kaiser write, as Caesar wrote,
In his new Commentaries on a Gallic war,
"_Fortissimi Belgae_."--A moon ago!
Who would have then divined that dead would lie
Like swaths of grain beneath the harvest moon
Upon these lands the ancient Belgae held,
From Normandy beyond renowned Lige!--

But it was out of that dread August night
From which all Europe woke to war, that we,
This beautiful Dawn-Youth, and I, had come,
He from afar. Beyond grim Petrograd
He'd waked the moujik from his peaceful dreams,
Bid the muezzin call to morning prayer
Where minarets rise o'er the Golden Horn,
And driven shadows from the Prussian march
To lie beneath the lindens of the _stadt_.
Softly he'd stirred the bells to ring at Rheims,
He'd knocked at high Montmartre, hardly asleep;
Heard the sweet carillon of doomed Louvain,
Boylike, had tarried for a moment's play
Amid the traceries of Amiens,
And then was hast'ning on the road to Dieppe,
When he o'ertook me drowsy from the hours
Through which I'd walked, with no companions else
Than ghostly kilometer posts that stood
As sentinels' of space along the way.--
Often, in doubt, I'd paused to question one,
With nervous hands, as they who read Moon-type;
And more than once I'd caught a moment's sleep
Beside the highway, in the dripping grass,
While one of these white sentinels stood guard,
Knowing me for a friend, who loves the road,
And best of all by night, when wheels do sleep
And stars alone do walk abroad.--But once
Three watchful shadows, deeper than the dark,
Laid hands on me and searched me for the marks
Of traitor or of spy, only to find
Over my heart the badge of loyalty.--
With wish for _bon voyage_ they gave me o'er
To the white guards who led me on again.

Thus Dawn o'ertook me and with magic speech
Made me forget the night as we strode on.
Where'er he looked a miracle was wrought:
A tree grew from the darkness at a glance;
A hut was thatched; a new chateau was reared
Of stone, as weathered as the church at Caen;
Gray blooms were coloured suddenly in red;
A flag was flung across the eastern sky.--
Nearer at hand, he made me then aware
Of peasant women bending in the fields,
Cradling and gleaning by the first scant light,
Their sons and husbands somewhere o'er the edge
Of these green-golden fields which they had sowed,
But will not reap,--out somewhere on the march,
God but knows where and if they come again.
One fallow field he pointed out to me
Where but the day before a peasant ploughed,
Dreaming of next year's fruit, and there his plough
Stood now mid-field, his horses commandeered,
A monstrous sable crow perched on the beam.

Before I knew, the Dawn was on the road,
Far from my side, so silently he went,
Catching his golden helmet as he ran,
And hast'ning on along the dun straight way,
Where old men's sabots now began to clack
And withered women, knitting, led their cows,
On, on to call the men of Kitchener
Down to their coasts,--I shouting after him:
"O Dawn, would you had let the world sleep on
Till all its armament were turned to rust,
Nor waked it to this day of hideous hate,
Of man's red murder and of woman's woe!"

Famished and lame, I came at last to Dieppe,
But Dawn had made his way across the sea,
And, as I climbed with heavy feet the cliff,
Was even then upon the sky-built towers
Of that great capital where nations all,
Teuton, Italian, Gallic, English, Slav,
Forget long hates in one consummate faith.

_John Finley_




TO FELLOW TRAVELLERS IN GREECE

MARCH-SEPTEMBER, 1914


'T was in the piping tune of peace
We trod the sacred soil of Greece,
Nor thought, where the Ilissus runs,
Of Teuton craft or Teuton guns;

Nor dreamt that, ere the year was spent,
Their iron challenge insolent
Would round the world's horizons pour,
From Europe to the Australian shore.

The tides of war had ebb'd away
From Trachis and Thermopylae,
Long centuries had come and gone
Since that fierce day at Marathon;

Freedom was firmly based, and we
Wall'd by our own encircling sea;
The ancient passions dead, and men
Battl'd with ledger and with pen.

So seem'd it, but to them alone
The wisdom of the gods is known;
Lest freedom's price decline, from far
Zeus hurl'd the thunderbolt of war.

And so once more the Persian steel
The armies of the Greeks must feel,
And once again a Xerxes know
The virtue of a Spartan foe.

Thus may the cloudy fates unroll'd
Retrace the starry circles old,
And the recurrent heavens decree
A Periclean dynasty.

_W. Macneile Dixon_




"WHEN THERE IS PEACE"


"_When there is Peace our land no more
Will be the land we knew of yore._"
  Thus do our facile seers foretell
  The truth that none can buy or sell
And e'en the wisest must ignore.

When we have bled at every pore,
Shall we still strive for gear and store?
  Will it be Heaven? Will it be Hell,
    When there is Peace?

This let us pray for, this implore:
That all base dreams thrust out at door,
  We may in loftier aims excel
  And, like men waking from a spell,
Grow stronger, nobler, than before,
    When there is Peace.

_Austin Dobson_




A PRAYER IN TIME OF WAR


[ The war will change many things in art and life, and among them,
it is to be hoped, many of our own ideas as to what is, and what is not,
"intellectual."]

Thou, whose deep ways are in the sea,
  Whose footsteps are not known,
To-night a world that turned from Thee
  Is waiting--at Thy Throne.

The towering Babels that we raised
  Where scoffing sophists brawl,
The little Antichrists we praised--
  The night is on them all.

_The fool hath said.... The fool hath said...._
  And we, who deemed him wise,
We who believed that Thou wast dead,
  How should we seek Thine eyes?

How should we seek to Thee for power
  Who scorned Thee yesterday?
How should we kneel, in this dread hour?
  Lord, teach us how to pray!

Grant us the single heart, once more,
  That mocks no sacred thing,
The Sword of Truth our fathers wore
  When Thou wast Lord and King.

Let darkness unto darkness tell
  Our deep unspoken prayer,
For, while our souls in darkness dwell,
  We know that Thou art there.

_Alfred Noyes_




THEN AND NOW


      When battles were fought
With a chivalrous sense of should and ought,
      In spirit men said,
      "End we quick or dead,
      Honour is some reward!
Let us fight fair--for our own best or worst;
      So, Gentlemen of the Guard,
          Fire first!"

      In the open they stood,
Man to man in his knightlihood:
      They would not deign
      To profit by a stain
      On the honourable rules,
Knowing that practise perfidy no man durst
      Who in the heroic schools
          Was nurst.

      But now, behold, what
Is war with those where honour is not!
      Rama laments
      Its dead innocents;
      Herod howls: "Sly slaughter
Rules now! Let us, by modes once called accurst,
      Overhead, under water,
          Stab first."

_Thomas Hardy_




THE KAISER AND GOD


["I rejoice with you in Wilhelm's first victory. How magnificently God
supported him!"--Telegram from the Kaiser to the Crown Princess.]

Led by Wilhelm, as you tell,
God has done extremely well;
You with patronizing nod
Show that you approve of God.
Kaiser, face a question new--
This--does God approve of you?

Broken pledges, treaties torn,
Your first page of war adorn;
We on fouler things must look
Who read further in that book,
Where you did in time of war
All that you in peace forswore,
Where you, barbarously wise,
Bade your soldiers terrorize,

Where you made--the deed was fine--
Women screen your firing line.
Villages burned down to dust,
Torture, murder, bestial lust,
Filth too foul for printer's ink,
Crime from which the apes would shrink--
Strange the offerings that you press
On the God of Righteousness!

Kaiser, when you'd decorate
Sons or friends who serve your State,
Not that Iron Cross bestow,
But a cross of wood, and so--
So remind the world that you
Have made Calvary anew.

Kaiser, when you'd kneel in prayer
Look upon your hands, and there
Let that deep and awful stain
From the Wood of children slain
Burn your very soul with shame,
Till you dare not breathe that Name
That now you glibly advertise--
God as one of your allies.

Impious braggart, you forget;
God is not your conscript yet;
You shall learn in dumb amaze
That His ways are not your ways,
That the mire through which you trod
Is not the high white road of God.

_To Whom, whichever way the combat rolls,
We, fighting to the end, commend our souls._

_Barry Pain_




THE SUPERMAN


The horror-haunted Belgian plains riven by shot and shell
Are strewn with her undaunted sons who stayed the jaws of hell.
In every sunny vale of France death is the countersign.
The purest blood in Britain's veins is being poured like wine.

Far, far across the crimsoned map the impassioned armies sweep.
Destruction flashes down the sky and penetrates the deep.
The Dreadnought knows the silent dread, and seas incarnadine
Attest the carnival of strife, the madman's battle scene.

Relentless, savage, hot, and grim the infuriate columns press
Where terror simulates disdain and danger is largess,
Where greedy youth claims death for bride and agony seems bliss.
It is the cause, the cause, my soul! which sanctifies all this.

Ride, Cossacks, ride! Charge, Turcos, charge! The fateful hour has come.
Let all the guns of Britain roar or be forever dumb.
The Superman has burst his bonds. With Kultur-flag unfurled
And prayer on lip he runs amuck, imperilling the world.

The impious creed that might is right in him personified
Bids all creation bend before the insatiate Teuton pride,
Which, nourished on Valhalla dreams of empire unconfined,
Would make the cannon and the sword the despots of mankind.

Efficient, thorough, strong, and brave--his vision is to kill.
Force is the hearthstone of his might, the pole-star of his will.
His forges glow malevolent: their minions never tire
To deck the goddess of his lust whose twins are blood and fire.

O world grown sick with butchery and manifold distress!
O broken Belgium robbed of all save grief and ghastliness!
Should Prussian power enslave the world and arrogance prevail,
Let chaos come, let Moloch rule, and Christ give place to Baal.

_Robert Grant_




THREE HILLS


There is a hill in England,
  Green fields and a school I know,
Where the balls fly fast in summer,
  And the whispering elm-trees grow,
      A little hill, a dear hill,
  And the playing fields below.

There is a hill in Flanders,
  Heaped with a thousand slain,
Where the shells fly night and noontide
  And the ghosts that died in vain,--
      A little hill, a hard hill
  To the souls that died in pain.

There is a hill in Jewry,
  Three crosses pierce the sky,
On the midmost He is dying
  To save all those who die,--
      A little hill, a kind hill
  To souls in jeopardy.

_Everard Owen_

_Harrow, December, 1915_




THE RETURN


I heard the rumbling guns. I saw the smoke,
  The unintelligible shock of hosts that still,
Far off, unseeing, strove and strove again;
  And Beauty flying naked down the hill

From morn to eve: and the stern night cried Peace!
  And shut the strife in darkness: all was still,
Then slowly crept a triumph on the dark--
  And I heard Beauty singing up the hill.

_John Freeman_




THE MOBILIZATION IN BRITTANY


I

It was silent in the street.
I did not know until a woman told me,
Sobbing over the muslin she sold me.
Then I went out and walked to the square
And saw a few dazed people standing there.

And then the drums beat, the drums beat!
O then the drums beat!
And hurrying, stumbling through the street
Came the hurrying stumbling feet.
O I have heard the drums beat
For war!
I have heard the townsfolk come,
I have heard the roll and thunder of the nearest drum
As the drummer stopped and cried, "Hear!
Be strong! The summons comes! Prepare!"
Closing he prayed us to be calm....

And there was calm in my heart of the desert, of the dead sea,
Of vast plains of the West before the coming storm,
And there was calm in their eyes like the last calm that shall be.

And then the drum beat,
The fatal drum, beat,
And the drummer marched through the street
And down to another square,
And the drummer above took up the beat
And sent it onward where
Huddled, we stood and heard the drums roll,
And then a bell began to toll.

O I have heard the thunder of drums
Crashing into simple poor homes.
I have heard the drums roll "Farewell!"
I have heard the tolling cathedral bell.
Will it ever peal again?
Shall I ever smile or feel again?
What was joy? What was pain?

For I have heard the drums beat,
I have seen the drummer striding from street to street,
Crying, "Be strong! Hear what I must tell!"
While the drums roared and rolled and beat
For war!


II

Last night the men of this region were leaving. Now they are far.
Rough and strong they are, proud and gay they are.
So this is the way of war....

The train was full and we all shouted as it pulled away.
They sang an old war-song, they were true to themselves, they were gay!
We might have thought they were going for a holiday--

Except for something in the air,
Except for the weeping of the ruddy old women of Finistre.
The younger women do not weep. They dream and stare.

They seem to be walking in dreams. They seem not to know
It is their homes, their happiness, vanishing so.
(Every strong man between twenty and forty must go.)

They sang an old war-song. I have heard it often in other days,
But never before when War was walking the world's highways.
They sang, they shouted, the _Marseillaise!_

The train went and another has gone, but none, coming, has brought word.
Though you may know, you, out in the world, we have not heard,
We are not sure that the great battalions have stirred--

Except for something, something in the air,
Except for the weeping of the wild old women of Finistre.
How long will the others dream and stare?

The train went. The strong men of this region are all away, afar.
Rough and strong they are, proud and gay they are.
So this is the way of war....

_Grace Fallow Norton_




THE TOY BAND


(A SONG OF THE GREAT RETREAT)

Dreary lay the long road, dreary lay the town,
  Lights out and never a glint o' moon:
Weary lay the stragglers, half a thousand down,
  Sad sighed the weary big Dragoon.
"Oh! if I'd a drum here to make them take the road again,
  Oh! if I'd a fife to wheedle, Come, boys, come!
You that mean to fight it out, wake and take your load again,
  Fall in! Fall in! Follow the fife and drum!

"Hey, but here's a toy shop, here's a drum for me,
  Penny whistles too to play the tune!
Half a thousand dead men soon shall hear and see
  We're a band!" said the weary big Dragoon.
"Rubadub! Rubadub! Wake and take the road again,
  Wheedle-deedle-deedle-dee, Come, boys, come!
You that mean to fight it out, wake and take your load again,
  Fall in! Fall in! Follow the fife and drum!"

Cheerly goes the dark road, cheerly goes the night,
  Cheerly goes the blood to keep the beat:
Half a thousand dead men marching on to fight
  With a little penny drum to lift their feet.
Rubadub! Rubadub! Wake and take the road again,
  Wheedle-deedle-deedle-dee, Come, boys, come!
You that mean to fight it out, wake and take your load again,
  Fall in! Fall in! Follow the fife and drum!

As long as there's an Englishman to ask a tale of me,
  As long as I can tell the tale aright,
We'll not forget the penny whistle's wheedle-deedle-dee
  And the big Dragoon a-beating down the night,
Rubadub! Rubadub! Wake and take the road again,
  Wheedle-deedle-deedle-dee, Come, boys, come!
You that mean to fight it out, wake and take your load again,
  Fall in! Fall in! Follow the fife and drum!

_Henry Newbolt_




THOMAS OF THE LIGHT HEART


Facing the guns, he jokes as well
    As any Judge upon the Bench;
Between the crash of shell and shell
    His laughter rings along the trench;
He seems immensely tickled by a
Projectile which he calls a "Black Maria."

He whistles down the day-long road,
    And, when the chilly shadows fall
And heavier hangs the weary load,
    Is he down-hearted? Not at all.
'T is then he takes a light and airy
View of the tedious route to Tipperary.

His songs are not exactly hymns;
    He never learned them in the choir;
And yet they brace his dragging limbs
    Although they miss the sacred fire;
Although his choice and cherished gems
Do not include "The Watch upon the Thames."

He takes to fighting as a game;
    He does no talking, through his hat,
Of holy missions; all the same
    He has his faith--be sure of that;
He'll not disgrace his sporting breed,
Nor play what isn't cricket. There's his creed.

_Owen Seaman_

_October, 1914_




IN THE TRENCHES


As I lay in the trenches
Under the Hunter's Moon,
My mind ran to the lenches
Cut in a Wiltshire down.

I saw their long black shadows,
The beeches in the lane,
The gray church in the meadows
And my white cottage--plain.

Thinks I, the down lies dreaming
Under that hot moon's eye,
Which sees the shells fly screaming
And men and horses die.

And what makes she, I wonder,
Of the horror and the blood,
And what's her luck, to sunder
The evil from the good?

'T was more than I could compass,
For how was I to think
With such infernal rumpus
In such a blasted stink?

But here's a thought to tally
With t'other. That moon sees
A shrouded German valley
With woods and ghostly trees.

And maybe there's a river
As we have got at home
With poplar-trees aquiver
And clots of whirling foam.

And over there some fellow,
A German and a foe,
Whose gills are turning yellow
As sure as mine are so,

Watches that riding glory
Apparel'd in her gold,
And craves to hear the story
Her frozen lips enfold.

And if he sees as clearly
As I do where her shrine
Must fall, he longs as dearly.
With heart as full as mine.

_Maurice Hewlett_




THE GUARDS CAME THROUGH


Men of the Twenty-first
  Up by the Chalk Pit Wood,
Weak with our wounds and our thirst,
  Wanting our sleep and our food,
After a day and a night--
  God, shall we ever forget!
Beaten and broke in the fight,
  But sticking it--sticking it yet.
Trying to hold the line,
  Fainting and spent and done,
Always the thud and the whine,
  Always the yell of the Hun!
Northumberland, Lancaster, York,
  Durham and Somerset,
Fighting alone, worn to the bone,
  But sticking it--sticking it yet.

Never a message of hope!
  Never a word of cheer!
Fronting Hill 70's shell-swept slope,
  With the dull dead plain in our rear.
Always the whine of the shell,
  Always the roar of its burst,
Always the tortures of hell,
  As waiting and wincing we cursed
Our luck and the guns and the _Boche_,
  When our Corporal shouted, "Stand to!"
And I heard some one cry, "Clear the front for the Guards!"
  And the Guards came through.

Our throats they were parched and hot,
  But Lord, if you'd heard the cheers!
Irish and Welsh and Scot,
  Coldstream and Grenadiers.
Two brigades, if you please,
  Dressing as straight as a hem,
We--we were down on our knees,
  Praying for us and for them!
Lord, I could speak for a week,
  But how could you understand!
How should _your_ cheeks be wet,
  Such feelin's don't come to _you_.
But when can me or my mates forget,
  When the Guards came through?

"Five yards left extend!"
  It passed from rank to rank.
Line after line with never a bend,
  And a touch of the London swank.
A trifle of swank and dash,
  Cool as a home parade,
Twinkle and glitter and flash,
  Flinching never a shade,
With the shrapnel right in their face
  Doing their Hyde Park stunt,
Keeping their swing at an easy pace,
  Arms at the trail, eyes front!
Man, it was great to see!
  Man, it was fine to do!
It's a cot and a hospital ward for me,
But I'll tell 'em in Blighty, wherever I be,
  How the Guards came through.

_Arthur Conan Doyle_




THE PASSENGERS OF A RETARDED SUBMERSIBLE

NOVEMBER, 1916


THE AMERICAN PEOPLE:
What was it kept you so long, brave German submersible?
We have been very anxious lest matters had not gone well
With you and the precious cargo of your country's drugs and dyes.
But here you are at last, and the sight is good for our eyes,
Glad to welcome you up and out of the caves of the sea,
And ready for sale or barter, whatever your will may be.

THE CAPTAIN OF THE SUBMERSIBLE:
Oh, do not be impatient, good friends of this neutral land,
That we have been so tardy in reaching your eager strand.
We were stopped by a curious chance just off the Irish coast,
Where the mightiest wreck ever was lay crowded with a host
Of the dead that went down with her; and some prayed us to bring them
  here
That they might be at home with their brothers and sisters dear.
We Germans have tender hearts, and it grieved us sore to say
We were not a passenger ship, and to most we must answer nay,
But if from among their hundreds they could somehow a half-score choose
We thought we could manage to bring them, and we would not refuse.
They chose, and the women and children that are greeting you here are
  those
Ghosts of the women and children that the rest of the hundred chose.

THE AMERICAN PEOPLE:
What guff are you giving us, Captain? We are able to tell, we hope,
A dozen ghosts, when we see them, apart from a periscope.
Come, come, get down to business! For time is money, you know,
And you must make up in both to us for having been so slow.
Better tell this story of yours to the submarines, for we
Know there was no such wreck, and none of your spookery.

THE GHOSTS OF THE LUSITANIA WOMEN AND CHILDREN:
Oh, kind kin of our murderers, take us back when you sail away;
Our own kin have forgotten us. O Captain, do not stay!
But hasten, Captain, hasten: The wreck that lies under the sea
Shall be ever the home for us this land can never be.

_William Dean Howells_




EDITH CAVELL


She was binding the wounds of her enemies when they came--
  The lint in her hand unrolled.
They battered the door with their rifle-butts, crashed it in:
  She faced them gentle and bold.

They haled her before the judges where they sat
  In their places, helmet on head.
With question and menace the judges assailed her, "Yes,
  I have broken your law," she said.

"I have tended the hurt and hidden the hunted, have done
  As a sister does to a brother,
Because of a law that is greater than that you have made,
  Because I could do none other.

"Deal as you will with me. This is my choice to the end,
  To live in the life I vowed."
"She is self-confessed," they cried; "she is self-condemned.
  She shall die, that the rest may be cowed."

In the terrible hour of the dawn, when the veins are cold,
  They led her forth to the wall.
"I have loved my land," she said, "but it is not enough:
  Love requires of me all.

"I will empty my heart of the bitterness, hating none."
  And sweetness filled her brave
With a vision of understanding beyond the hour
  That knelled to the waiting grave.

They bound her eyes, but she stood as if she shone.
  The rifles it was that shook
When the hoarse command rang out. They could not endure
  That last, that defenceless look.

And the officer strode and pistolled her surely, ashamed
  That men, seasoned in blood,
Should quail at a woman, only a woman,--
  As a flower stamped in the mud.

And now that the deed was securely done, in the night
  When none had known her fate,
They answered those that had striven for her, day by day:
  "It is over, you come too late."

And with many words and sorrowful-phrased excuse
  Argued their German right
To kill, most legally; hard though the duty be,
  The law must assert its might.

Only a woman! yet she had pity on them,
  The victim offered slain
To the gods of fear that they worship. Leave them there,
  Red hands, to clutch their gain!

She bewailed not herself, and we will bewail her not,
  But with tears of pride rejoice
That an English soul was found so crystal-clear
  To be triumphant voice

Of the human heart that dares adventure all
  But live to itself untrue,
And beyond all laws sees love as the light in the night,
  As the star it must answer to.

The hurts she healed, the thousands comforted--these
  Make a fragrance of her fame.
But because she stept to her star right on through death
  It is Victory speaks her name.

_Laurence Binyon_




THE HELL-GATE OF SOISSONS


My name is Darino, the poet. You have heard? _Oui, Comdie Franaise_.
Perchance it has happened, _mon ami_, you know of my unworthy lays.
Ah, then you must guess how my fingers are itching to talk to a pen;
For I was at Soissons, and saw it, the death of the twelve Englishmen.

My leg, _malheureusement_, I left it behind on the banks of the Aisne.
Regret? I would pay with the other to witness their valor again.
A trifle, indeed, I assure you, to give for the honor to tell
How that handful of British, undaunted, went into the Gateway of Hell.

Let me draw you a plan of the battle. Here we French and your Engineers
  stood;
Over there a detachment of German sharpshooters lay hid in a wood.
A _mitrailleuse_ battery planted on top of this well-chosen ridge
Held the road for the Prussians and covered the direct approach to the
bridge.

It was madness to dare the dense murder that spewed from those ghastly
  machines.
(Only those who have danced to its music can know what the
_mitrailleuse_ means.)
But the bridge on the Aisne was a menace; our safety demanded its fall:
"Engineers,--volunteers!" In a body, the Royals stood out at the call.

Death at best was the fate of that mission--to their glory not one was
  dismayed.
A party was chosen--and seven survived till the powder was laid.
And _they_ died with their fuses unlighted. Another detachment! Again
A sortie is made--all too vainly. The bridge still commanded the Aisne.

We were fighting two foes--Time and Prussia--the moments were worth more
  than troops.
We _must_ blow up the bridge. A lone soldier darts out from the Royals
  and swoops
For the fuse! Fate seems with us. We cheer him; he answers--our hopes
  are reborn!
A ball rips his visor--his khaki shows red where another has torn.

Will he live--will he last--will he make it? _Hlas!_ And so near to the
  goal!
A second, he dies! then a third one! A fourth! Still the Germans take
  toll!
A fifth, _magnifique_! It is magic! How does he escape them? He may....
Yes, he _does_! See, the match flares! A rifle rings out from the wood
  and says "Nay!"

Six, seven, eight, nine take their places, six, seven, eight, nine brave
  their hail;
Six, seven, eight, nine--how we count them! But the sixth, seventh,
  eighth, and ninth fail!
A tenth! _Sacr nom!_ But these English are soldiers--they know how to
  try;
(He fumbles the place where his jaw was)--they show, too, how heroes can
  die.

Ten we count--ten who ventured unquailing--ten there were--and ten are
  no more!
Yet another salutes and superbly essays where the ten failed before.
God of Battles, look down and protect him! Lord, his heart is as Thine--
  let him live!
But the _mitrailleuse_ splutters and stutters, and riddles him into a
  sieve.

Then I thought of my sins, and sat waiting the charge that we could not
  withstand.
And I thought of my beautiful Paris, and gave a last look at the land,
At France, my _belle France_, in her glory of blue sky and green field
  and wood.
Death with honor, but never surrender. And to die with such men--it was
  good.

They are forming--the bugles are blaring--they will cross in a moment
  and then....
When out of the line of the Royals (your island, _mon ami_, breeds men)
Burst a private, a tawny-haired giant--it was hopeless, but, _ciel!_ how
  he ran!
_Bon Dieu_ please remember the pattern, and make many more on his plan!

No cheers from our ranks, and the Germans, they halted in wonderment
  too;
See, he reaches the bridge; ah! he lights it! I am dreaming, it _cannot_
  be true.
Screams of rage! _Fusillade!_ They have killed him! Too late though, the
  good work is done.
By the valor of twelve English martyrs, the Hell-Gate of Soissons is
  won!

_Herbert Kaufman_




THE VIRGIN OF ALBERT

(NOTRE DAME DE BREBIRES)


Shyly expectant, gazing up at Her,
  They linger, Gaul and Briton, side by side:
  Death they know well, for daily have they died,
Spending their boyhood ever bravelier;
They wait: here is no priest or chorister,
  Birds skirt the stricken tower, terrified;
  Desolate, empty, is the Eastertide,
Yet still they wait, watching the Babe and Her.

Broken, the Mother stoops: the brutish foe
  Hurled with dull hate his bolts, and down She swayed,
Down, till She saw the toiling swarms below,--
  Platoons, guns, transports, endlessly arrayed:
"Women are woe for them! let Me be theirs,
And comfort them, and hearken all their prayers!"

_George Herbert Clarke_




RETREAT


Broken, bewildered by the long retreat
  Across the stifling leagues of southern plain,
  Across the scorching leagues of trampled grain,
Half-stunned, half-blinded, by the trudge of feet
And dusty smother of the August heat,
  He dreamt of flowers in an English lane,
  Of hedgerow flowers glistening after rain--
All-heal and willow-herb and meadow-sweet.

All-heal and willow-herb and meadow-sweet--
  The innocent names kept up a cool refrain--
All-heal and willow-herb and meadow-sweet,
  Chiming and tinkling in his aching brain,
  Until he babbled like a child again--
"All-heal and willow-herb and meadow-sweet."

_Wilfrid Wilson Gibson_




A LETTER FROM THE FRONT


I was out early to-day, spying about
From the top of a haystack--such a lovely morning--
And when I mounted again to canter back
I saw across a field in the broad sunlight
A young Gunner Subaltern, stalking along
With a rook-rifle held at the ready, and--would you believe it?--
A domestic cat, soberly marching beside him.

So I laughed, and felt quite well disposed to the youngster,
And shouted out "the top of the morning" to him,
And wished him "Good sport!"--and then I remembered
My rank, and his, and what I ought to be doing:
And I rode nearer, and added, "I can only suppose
You have not seen the Commander-in-Chief's order
Forbidding English officers to annoy their Allies
By hunting and shooting."
        But he stood and saluted
And said earnestly, "I beg your pardon, Sir,
I was only going out to shoot a sparrow
To feed my cat with."
        So there was the whole picture,
The lovely early morning, the occasional shell
Screeching and scattering past us, the empty landscape,--
Empty, except for the young Gunner saluting,
And the cat, anxiously watching his every movement.

I may be wrong, and I may have told it badly,
But it struck _me_ as being extremely ludicrous.

_Henry Newbolt_




RHEIMS CATHEDRAL--1914


A wingd death has smitten dumb thy bells,
  And poured them molten from thy tragic towers:
  Now are the windows dust that were thy flower
Patterned like frost, petalled like asphodels.
Gone are the angels and the archangels,
  The saints, the little lamb above thy door,
  The shepherd Christ! They are not, any more,
Save in the soul where exiled beauty dwells.

But who has heard within thy vaulted gloom
  That old divine insistence of the sea,
    When music flows along the sculptured stone
In tides of prayer, for him thy windows bloom
  Like faithful sunset, warm immortally!
    Thy bells live on, and Heaven is in their tone!

_Grace Hazard Conkling_




I HAVE A RENDEZVOUS WITH DEATH....


  I have a rendezvous with Death
At some disputed barricade,
When Spring comes back with rustling shade
And apple-blossoms fill the air--
I have a rendezvous with Death
When Spring brings back blue days and fair.

  It may be he shall take my hand
And lead me into his dark land
And close my eyes and quench my breath--
It may be I shall pass him still.
I have a rendezvous with Death
On some scarred slope of battered hill,
When Spring comes round again this year
And the first meadow-flowers appear.

  God knows 't were better to be deep
Pillowed in silk and scented down,
Where Love throbs out in blissful sleep
Pulse nigh to pulse, and breath to breath,
Where hushed awakenings are dear....
But I've a rendezvous with Death
At midnight in some flaming town,
When Spring trips north again this year,
And I to my pledged word am true,
I shall not fail that rendezvous.

_Alan Seeger_




THE SOLDIER


If I should die, think only this of me:
  That there's some corner of a foreign field
That is for ever England. There shall be
  In that rich earth a richer dust concealed;
A dust whom England bore, shaped, made aware,
  Gave once her flowers to love, her ways to roam,
A body of England's, breathing English air,
  Washed by the rivers, blest by suns of home.

And think this heart, all evil shed away,
  A pulse in the eternal mind, no less
    Gives somewhere back the thoughts by England given;
Her sights and sounds; dreams happy as her day;
  And laughter, learnt of friends; and gentleness,
    In hearts at peace, under an English heaven.

_Rupert Brooke_




EXPECTANS EXPECTAVI


From morn to midnight, all day through,
I laugh and play as others do,
I sin and chatter, just the same
As others with a different name.

And all year long upon the stage,
I dance and tumble and do rage
So vehemently, I scarcely see
The inner and eternal me.

I have a temple I do not
Visit, a heart I have forgot,
A self that I have never met,
A secret shrine--and yet, and yet

This sanctuary of my soul
Unwitting I keep white and whole,
Unlatched and lit, if Thou should'st care
To enter or to tarry there.

With parted lips and outstretched hands
And listening ears Thy servant stands,
Call Thou early, call Thou late,
To Thy great service dedicate.

_Charles Hamilton Sorley_

_May, 1915_




THE VOLUNTEER


Here lies a clerk who half his life had spent
Toiling at ledgers in a city grey,
Thinking that so his days would drift away
With no lance broken in life's tournament:
Yet ever 'twixt the books and his bright eyes
The gleaming eagles of the legions came,
And horsemen, charging under phantom skies,
Went thundering past beneath the oriflamme.

And now those waiting dreams are satisfied;
From twilight to the halls of dawn he went;
His lance is broken; but he lies content
With that high hour, in which he lived and died.
And falling thus he wants no recompense,
Who found his battle in the last resort;
Nor needs he any hearse to bear him hence,
Who goes to join the men of Agincourt.

_Herbert Asquith_




INTO BATTLE


The naked earth is warm with Spring,
  And with green grass and bursting trees
Leans to the sun's gaze glorying,
  And quivers in the sunny breeze;
And Life is Colour and Warmth and Light,
  And a striving evermore for these;
And he is dead who will not fight;
  And who dies fighting has increase.

The fighting man shall from the sun
  Take warmth, and life from the glowing earth;
Speed with the light-foot winds to run,
  And with the trees to newer birth;
And find, when fighting shall be done,
  Great rest, and fullness after dearth.

All the bright company of Heaven
  Hold him in their high comradeship,
The Dog-Star, and the Sisters Seven,
  Orion's Belt and sworded hip.

The woodland trees that stand together,
  They stand to him each one a friend;
They gently speak in the windy weather;
  They guide to valley and ridges' end.

The kestrel hovering by day,
  And the little owls that call by night,
Bid him be swift and keen as they,
  As keen of ear, as swift of sight.

The blackbird sings to him, "Brother, brother,
  If this be the last song you shall sing,
Sing well, for you may not sing another;
  Brother, sing."

In dreary, doubtful, waiting hours,
  Before the brazen frenzy starts,
The horses show him nobler powers;
  O patient eyes, courageous hearts!

And when the burning moment breaks,
  And all things else are out of mind,
And only Joy-of-Battle takes
  Him by the throat, and makes him blind,

Through joy and blindness he shall know,
  Not caring much to know, that still
Nor lead nor steel shall reach him, so
  That it be not the Destined Will.

The thundering line of battle stands,
  And in the air Death moans and sings;
But Day shall clasp him with strong hands,
  And Night shall fold him in soft wings.

_Julian Grenfell_

_Flanders, April, 1915_




THE CRICKETERS OF FLANDERS


The first to climb the parapet
With "cricket balls" in either hand;
The first to vanish in the smoke
Of God-forsaken No Man's Land;
First at the wire and soonest through,
First at those red-mouthed hounds of hell,
The Maxims, and the first to fall,--
They do their bit and do it well.

Full sixty yards I've seen them throw
With all that nicety of aim
They learned on British cricket-fields.
Ah, bombing is a Briton's game!
Shell-hole to shell-hole, trench, to trench,
"Lobbing them over" with an eye
As true as though it _were_ a game
And friends were having tea close by.

Pull down some art-offending thing
Of carven stone, and in its stead
Let splendid bronze commemorate
These men, the living and the dead.
No figure of heroic size,
Towering skyward like a god;
But just a lad who might have stepped
From any British bombing squad.

His shrapnel helmet set atilt,
His bombing waistcoat sagging low,
His rifle slung across his back:
Poised in the very act to throw.
And let some graven legend tell
Of those weird battles in the West
Wherein he put old skill to use,
And played old games with sterner zest.

Thus should he stand, reminding those
In less-believing days, perchance,
How Britain's fighting cricketers
Helped bomb the Germans out of France.
And other eyes than ours would see;
And other hearts than ours would thrill;
And others say, as we have said:
"A sportsman and a soldier still!"

_James Norman Hall_




"ALL THE HILLS AND VALES ALONG"


All the hills and vales along
Earth is bursting into song,
And the singers are the chaps
Who are going to die perhaps.
  O sing, marching men,
  Till the valleys ring again.
  Give your gladness to earth's keeping,
  So be glad, when you are sleeping.

Cast away regret and rue,
Think what you are marching to.
Little live, great pass.
Jesus Christ and Barabbas
Were found the same day.
This died, that went his way.
  So sing with joyful breath.
  For why, you are going to death.
  Teeming earth will surely store
  All the gladness that you pour.

Earth that never doubts nor fears,
Earth that knows of death, not tears,
Earth that bore with joyful ease
Hemlock for Socrates,
Earth that blossomed and was glad
'Neath the cross that Christ had,
Shall rejoice and blossom too
When the bullet reaches you.
  Wherefore, men marching
  On the road to death, sing!
  Pour your gladness on earth's head,
  So be merry, so be dead.

From the hills and valleys earth.
Shouts back the sound of mirth,
Tramp of feet and lilt of song
Ringing all the road along.
All the music of their going,
Ringing, swinging, glad song-throwing,
Earth will echo still, when foot
Lies numb and voice mute.
  On, marching men, on
  To the gates of death with song.
  Sow your gladness for earth's reaping,
  So you may be glad, though sleeping.
  Strew your gladness on earth's bed,
  So be merry, so be dead.

_Charles Hamilton Sorley_




NO MAN'S LAND


No Man's Land is an eerie sight
At early dawn in the pale gray light.
Never a house and never a hedge
In No Man's Land from edge to edge,
And never a living soul walks there
To taste the fresh of the morning air;--
Only some lumps of rotting clay,
That were friends or foemen yesterday.

What are the bounds of No Man's Land?
You can see them clearly on either hand,
A mound of rag-bags gray in the sun,
Or a furrow of brown where the earthworks run
From the eastern hills to the western sea,
Through field or forest o'er river and lea;
No man may pass them, but aim you well
And Death rides across on the bullet or shell.

But No Man's Land is a goblin sight
When patrols crawl over at dead o' night;
_Boche_ or British, Belgian or French,
You dice with death when you cross the trench.
When the "rapid," like fireflies in the dark,
Flits down the parapet spark by spark,
And you drop for cover to keep your head
With your face on the breast of the four months'
dead.

The man who ranges in No Man's Land
Is dogged by the shadows on either hand
When the star-shell's flare, as it bursts o'erhead,
Scares the gray rats that feed on the dead,
And the bursting bomb or the bayonet-snatch
May answer the click of your safety-catch,
For the lone patrol, with his life in his hand,
Is hunting for blood in No Man's Land.

_James H. Knight-Adkin_




CHAMPAGNE, 1914-15


In the glad revels, in the happy ftes,
  When cheeks are flushed, and glasses gilt and pearled
With the sweet wine of France that concentrates
  The sunshine and the beauty of the world,

Drink sometimes, you whose footsteps yet may tread
  The undisturbed, delightful paths of Earth,
To those whose blood, in pious duty shed,
  Hallows the soil where that same wine had birth.

Here, by devoted comrades laid away,
  Along our lines they slumber where they fell,
Beside the crater at the Ferme d'Alger
  And up the bloody slopes of La Pompelle,

And round the city whose cathedral towers
  The enemies of Beauty dared profane,
And in the mat of multicolored flowers
  That clothe the sunny chalk-fields of Champagne,

Under the little crosses where they rise
  The soldier rests. Now round him undismayed
The cannon thunders, and at night he lies
  At peace beneath the eternal fusillade....

That other generations might possess--
  From shame and menace free in years to come--
A richer heritage of happiness,
  He marched to that heroic martyrdom.

Esteeming less the forfeit that he paid
  Than undishonored that his flag might float
Over the towers of liberty, he made
  His breast the bulwark and his blood the moat.

Obscurely sacrificed, his nameless tomb,
  Bare of the sculptor's art, the poet's lines,
Summer shall flush with poppy-fields in bloom,
  And Autumn yellow with maturing vines.

There the grape-pickers at their harvesting
  Shall lightly tread and load their wicker trays,
Blessing his memory as they toil and sing
  In the slant sunshine of October days....

I love to think that if my blood should be
  So privileged to sink where his has sunk,
I shall not pass from Earth entirely,
  But when the banquet rings, when healths are drunk,

And faces that the joys of living fill
  Glow radiant with laughter and good cheer,
In beaming cups some spark of me shall still
  Brim toward the lips that once I held so dear.

So shall one coveting no higher plane
  Than nature clothes in color and flesh and tone,
Even from the grave put upward to attain
  The dreams youth cherished and missed and might have known;

And that strong need that strove unsatisfied
  Toward earthly beauty in all forms it wore,
Not death itself shall utterly divide
  From the beloved shapes it thirsted for.

Alas, how many an adept for whose arms
  Life held delicious offerings perished here,
How many in the prime of all that charms,
  Crowned with all gifts that conquer and endear!

Honor them not so much with tears and flowers,
  But you with whom the sweet fulfilment lies,
Where in the anguish of atrocious hours
  Turned their last thoughts and closed their dying eyes,

Rather when music on bright gatherings lays
  Its tender spell, and joy is uppermost,
Be mindful of the men they were, and raise
  Your glasses to them in one silent toast.

Drink to them--amorous of dear Earth as well,
  They asked no tribute lovelier than this--
And in the wine that ripened where they fell,
  Oh, frame your lips as though it were a kiss.

_Alan Seeger_

_Champagne, France_,

_July, 1915_




HEADQUARTERS


A league and a league from the trenches--from the traversed
  maze of the lines,
Where daylong the sniper watches and daylong the bullet whines,
And the cratered earth is in travail with mines and with
  countermines--
Here, where haply some woman dreamed (are those
  her roses that bloom
In the garden beyond the windows of my littered
  working room?)
We have decked the map for our masters as a bride is
  decked for the groom.

Fair, on each lettered numbered square--crossroad
  and mound and wire,
Loophole, redoubt, and emplacement--lie the targets
  their mouths desire;
Gay with purples and browns and blues, have we
  traced them their arcs of fire.

And ever the type-keys chatter; and ever our keen
  wires bring
Word from the watchers a-crouch below, word from
  the watchers a-wing:
And ever we hear the distant growl of our hid 'guns
  thundering.

Hear it hardly, and turn again to our maps, where the
  trench lines crawl,
Red on the gray and each with a sign for the ranging
  shrapnel's fall--
Snakes that our masters shall scotch at dawn, as is
  written here on the wall.

For the weeks of our waiting draw to a close....
  There is scarcely a leaf astir
In the garden beyond my windows, where the twilight
  shadows blur
The blaze of some woman's roses.... "Bombardment
  orders, sir."

_Gilbert Frankau_




HOME THOUGHTS FROM LAVENTIE


Green gardens in Laventie!
Soldiers only know the street
Where the mud is churned and splashed about
    By battle-wending feet;
And yet beside one stricken house there is a glimpse of grass--
    Look for it when you pass.

Beyond the church whose pitted spire
Seems balanced on a strand
Of swaying stone and tottering brick,
    Two roofless ruins stand;
And here, among the wreckage, where the back-wall should have been,
    We found a garden green.

The grass was never trodden on,
The little path of gravel
Was overgrown with celandine;
    No other folk did travel
Along its weedy surface but the nimble-footed mouse,
    Running from house to house.

So all along the tender blades
Of soft and vivid grass
We lay, nor heard the limber wheels
    That pass and ever pass
In noisy continuity until their stony rattle
    Seems in itself a battle.

At length we rose up from this ease
Of tranquil happy mind,
And searched the garden's little length
    Some new pleasaunce to find;
And there some yellow daffodils, and jasmine hanging high,
    Did rest the tired eye.

The fairest and most fragrant
Of the many sweets we found
Was a little bush of Daphne flower
    Upon a mossy mound,
And so thick were the blossoms set and so divine the scent,
    That we were well content.

Hungry for Spring I bent my head,
The perfume fanned my face,
And all my soul was dancing
    In that lovely little place,
Dancing with a measured step from wrecked and shattered towns
    Away ... upon the Downs.

I saw green banks of daffodil,
Slim poplars in the breeze,
Great tan-brown hares in gusty March
    A-courting on the leas.
And meadows, with their glittering streams--and  silver-scurrying dace--
    Home, what a perfect place!

_E. Wyndham Tennant_




A PETITION


All that a man might ask thou hast given me, England,
  Birthright and happy childhood's long heart's-ease,
And love whose range is deep beyond all sounding
  And wider than all seas:
A heart to front the world and find God in it.
  Eyes blind enow but not too blind to see
The lovely things behind the dross and darkness,
  And lovelier things to be;
And friends whose loyalty time nor death shall weaken
  And quenchless hope and laughter's golden store--
All that a man might ask thou hast given me, England,
  Yet grant thou one thing more:
That now when envious foes would spoil thy splendour,
  Unversed in arms, a dreamer such, as I,
May in thy ranks be deemed not all unworthy,
  England, for thee to die.

_Robert Ernest Vernde_




FULFILMENT


Was there love once? I have forgotten her.
Was there grief once? Grief yet is mine.
Other loves I have, men rough, but men who stir
More grief, more joy, than love of thee and thine.

Faces cheerful, full of whimsical mirth,
Lined by the wind, burned by the sun;
Bodies enraptured by the abounding earth,
As whose children we are brethren: one.

And any moment may descend hot death
To shatter limbs! Pulp, tear, blast
Belovd soldiers who love rough life and breath
Not less for dying faithful to the last.

O the fading eyes, the grimed face turned bony,
Oped mouth gushing, fallen head,
Lessening pressure of a hand, shrunk, clammed and stony!
O sudden spasm, release of the dead!

Was there love once? I have forgotten her.
Was there grief once? Grief yet is mine.
O loved, living, dying, heroic soldier,
All, all my joy, my grief, my love, are thine.

_Robert Nichols_




THE DAY'S MARCH


The battery grides and jingles,
Mile succeeds to mile;
Shaking the noonday sunshine
The guns lunge out awhile,
And then are still awhile.

We amble along the highway;
The reeking, powdery dust
Ascends and cakes our faces
With a striped, sweaty crust.

Under the still sky's violet
The heat throbs on the air....
The white road's dusty radiance
Assumes a dark glare.

With a head hot and heavy,
And eyes that cannot rest,
And a black heart burning
In a stifled breast,

I sit in the saddle,
I feel the road unroll,
And keep my senses straightened
Toward to-morrow's goal.

There, over unknown meadows
Which we must reach at last,
Day and night thunders
A black and chilly blast.

Heads forget heaviness,
Hearts forget spleen,
For by that mighty winnowing
Being is blown clean.

Light in the eyes again,
Strength in the hand,
A spirit dares, dies, forgives,
And can understand!

And, best! Love comes back again
After grief and shame,
And along the wind of death
Throws a clean flame.

       *       *       *       *       *

The battery grides and jingles,
Mile succeeds to mile;
Suddenly battering the silence
The guns burst out awhile....

I lift my head and smile.

_Robert Nichols_




THE SIGN


We are here in a wood of little beeches:
And the leaves are like black lace
Against a sky of nacre.

One bough of clear promise
Across the moon.

It is in this wise that God speaketh unto me.
He layeth hands of healing upon my flesh,
Stilling it in an eternal peace,
Until my soul reaches out myriad and infinite hands
Toward him,
And is eased of its hunger.

And I know that this passes:
This implacable fury and torment of men,
As a thing insensate and vain:
And the stillness hath said unto me,
Over the tumult of sounds and shaken flame,
Out of the terrible beauty of wrath,
_I alone am eternal._

One bough of clear promise
Across the moon.

_Frederic Manning_




THE TRENCHES


Endless lanes sunken in the clay,
Bays, and traverses, fringed with wasted herbage,
Seed-pods of blue scabious, and some lingering blooms;
And the sky, seen as from a well,
Brilliant with frosty stars.
We stumble, cursing, on the slippery duck-boards.
Goaded like the damned by some invisible wrath,
A will stronger than weariness, stronger than animal fear,
Implacable and monotonous.

Here a shaft, slanting, and below
A dusty and flickering light from one feeble candle
And prone figures sleeping uneasily,
Murmuring,
And men who cannot sleep,
With faces impassive as masks,
Bright, feverish eyes, and drawn lips,
Sad, pitiless, terrible faces,
Each an incarnate curse.

Here in a bay, a helmeted sentry
Silent and motionless, watching while two sleep,
And he sees before him
With indifferent eyes the blasted and torn land
Peopled with stiff prone forms, stupidly rigid,
As tho' they had not been men.

Dead are the lips where love laughed or sang,
The hands of youth eager to lay hold of life,
Eyes that have laughed to eyes,
And these were begotten,
O Love, and lived lightly, and burnt
With the lust of a man's first strength: ere they were rent.
Almost at unawares, savagely; and strewn
In bloody fragments, to be the carrion
Of rats and crows.

And the sentry moves not, searching
Night for menace with weary eyes.

_Frederic Manning_




SONNETS


I

I see across the chasm of flying years
  The pyre of Dido on the vacant shore;
  I see Medea's fury and hear the roar
Of rushing flames, the new bride's burning tears;
And ever as still another vision peers
  Thro' memory's mist to stir me more and more,
  I say that surely I have lived before
And known this joy and trembled with these fears.

The passion that they show me burns so high;
  Their love, in me who have not looked on love,
  So fiercely flames; so wildly comes the cry
Of stricken women the warrior's call above,
That I would gladly lay me down and die
  To wake again where Helen and Hector move.


II

The falling rain is music overhead,
  The dark night, lit by no Intruding star,
  Fit covering yields to thoughts that roam afar
And turn again familiar paths to tread,
Where many a laden hour too quickly sped
  In happier times, before the dawn of war,
  Before the spoiler had whet his sword to mar
The faithful living and the mighty dead.

It is not that my soul is weighed with woe,
  But rather wonder, seeing they do but sleep.
  As birds that in the sinking summer sweep
Across the heaven to happier climes to go,
  So they are gone; and sometimes we must weep,
And sometimes, smiling, murmur, "Be it so!"

_Henry William Hutchinson_




THE MESSINES ROAD


I

The road that runs up to Messines
  Is double-locked with gates of fire,
Barred with high ramparts, and between
  The unbridged river, and the wire.

None ever goes up to Messines,
  For Death lurks all about the town,
Death holds the vale as his demesne,
  And only Death moves up and down.


II

Choked with wild weeds, and overgrown
  With rank grass, all torn and rent
By war's opposing engines, strewn
  With dbris from each day's event!

And in the dark the broken trees,
  Whose arching boughs were once its shade,
Grim and distorted, ghostly ease
  In groans their souls vexed and afraid.

Yet here the farmer drove his cart,
  Here friendly folk would meet and pass,
Here bore the good wife eggs to mart
  And old and young walked up to Mass.

Here schoolboys lingered in the way,
  Here the bent packman laboured by,
And lovers at the end o' the day
  Whispered their secret blushingly.

A goodly road for simple needs,
  An avenue to praise and paint,
Kept by fair use from wreck and weeds,
  Blessed by the shrine of its own saint.


III

The road that runs up to Messines!
  Ah, how we guard it day and night!
And how they guard it, who o'erween
  A stricken people, with their might!

But we shall go up to Messines
  Even thro' that fire-defended gate.
Over and thro' all else between
  And give the highway back its state.

_J. E. Stewart_




THE CHALLENGE OF THE GUNS


By day, by night, along the lines their dull boom rings,
And that reverberating roar its challenge flings.
Not only unto thee across the narrow sea,
But from the loneliest vale in the last land's heart
The sad-eyed watching mother sees her sons depart.

And freighted full the tumbling waters of ocean are
With aid for England from England's sons afar.
The gla