 short but irregular intervals
inside the fort.  Thus the last hours of the afternoon waned, and as the
twilight came, they went more freely about the fort.

Colonel Talbot called a conference of the senior officers in a corner
of the enclosure well under the shelter of the earthen walls, and after
some minutes of anxious talking they sent for the three youths.  Harry,
St. Clair and Langdon responded with alacrity, sure that something of
the utmost importance was afoot.



CHAPTER XIII

THE SEEKER FOR HELP


Colonel Talbot, Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire and four other officers
were in a deep alcove that had been dug just under the highest earthwork,
where they were not likely to be interrupted in their deliberations by
any fragment of an exploding shell.  The only light was that of the
stars and the early moon which had now come out, but it was sufficient
to show faces oppressed by the utmost anxiety.  Three other men also had
been summoned to the council.

"We have chosen you six for an important errand," said Colonel Talbot,
"but you are to go upon it singly, and not collectively.  As you see,
we are besieged here by a greatly superior force.  Its assault has been
repulsed, but it will not go away.  It will bombard us incessantly, and,
since we are not strong enough to break through their lines and have
limited supplies of food and water, we must fall in a day or two,
unless we get help.  We want you to make your way over the hills tonight
to General Beauregard's army and bring aid.  Even should five be
captured or slain the sixth may get through.  Lieutenant Kenton, you
will go first.  You will recall that the horses of the officers were
left on the crest of the mountain with a small guard.  They may be there
yet, and if you can secure a mount, so much the better.  But the moment
you leave this fort you must rely absolutely upon your own skill and
judgment."

Harry bowed.  It was a great trust and he felt elation because he had
been chosen first.  He was again a courier, and he would do his best.

"I should advise you not to take either a rifle or a sword," said
Colonel Talbot, "as they will be in the way of speed.  But you'd better
have two pistols.  Now, go!  I send you upon a dangerous errand, but I
hope that the son of George Kenton, my old friend, will succeed.  Hark!
There is Carrington again!  How strangely this war arrays comrades
against one another!"

A shell burst almost at the center of the fort, and, for a few moments,
the air was full of earth and flying fragments of steel.  But in another
minute Harry made his preparations, dropped over the rear earthwork and
crouched for a little while against it.  Before him stretched an open
space of several hundred yards and here he felt was his greatest danger.
The Northern sharpshooters might be lurking at the edge of the forest,
and he ran great danger of being picked off as he fled.  He looked up
hopefully at the skies and saw a few clouds, but they did not promise
much.  Starshine and moonshine together gave enough light for a good
sharpshooter.

Bending until he was half stooped, he took his chance and ran across the
clearing.  His flesh quivered, fearing the sudden impact of a bullet
upon it, but no crack of a rifle came and he darted into the protecting
shades of the forest.  He lay a few minutes among the trees, until his
lungs filled with fresh air.  Then he rose and advanced cautiously up
the slope, which lay to the south of the fort.  The besieging force was
massed on the northern side of the fort, but it was probable that they
had outposts here also, to guard against such errands as the one upon
which Harry himself was bent.

Yet he felt sure of getting through.  One youth in a forest was hard
to find.  The clouds at which he had looked so hopefully were really
growing a little heavier now.  It would take good eyes to find him and
swift feet to catch him.  He paused again halfway up the slope, and saw
a flash of flame from the Northern forest.  Then came the thunderous
roar of one of Carrington's guns, all the louder in the still night,
and he saw the shell burst just over the fort.

He knew that these guns would play all night on the Southern recruits,
allowing them but little rest and sleep and shaking their nerves still
further.

But he must not pause for the guns.  A hundred yards further and he sank
quietly into a clump of bushes.  Voices had warned him and he lay quite
still while a Northern officer and twenty soldiers passed.  They were so
near that he heard them talking and they spoke of the recapture of the
fort within two days at least.  When they were lost among the trees he
rose and advanced more rapidly than before.

He met no interruption until he reached the crest of the mountain,
when he ran almost into the arms of a sentinel.  The man in the darkness
did not see the color of his uniform and hailed him for news.

"Nothing," replied Harry hastily, as he darted away.  "I carry a message
from our commander to a detachment stationed further on!"

But the sentinel, catching sight of his uniform, and exclaiming: "A
Johnny Reb!" threw up his rifle and fired.  Luckily for Harry it was
such a hurried shot that the bullet only made his flesh creep, and
passed on, cutting the twigs.  Then Harry lifted himself up and ran.
Lifting himself up describes it truly.  He had all the motives which can
make a boy run, pressing danger, love of life, devotion to his cause,
and a burning desire to do his errand.  Hence he lifted his feet,
spurned the earth behind him and fled down the slope at amazing speed.
Several more shots were fired, but the bullets flew at random and did
not come near him.

Harry did not stop until he was two or three miles from the fort,
when he knew that he was safe from anything but a chance meeting with
the Northern troops.  Then he lay down under a big tree and panted.
But his breathing soon became easy, and, rising, he examined the region.
He always had a good idea of locality, and soon he found the road by
which the Invincibles had come.  No one could mistake the tracks made by
the cannon wheels.  He would retrace his steps on that road as fast as
he could.  He saw that it was useless now to look for the men with the
horses.  Fear of capture had compelled them to move long since, and a
search would merely waste time.

He tightened his belt, squared his shoulders, and bending a little
forward, ran at a long, easy gait along the trail.  He was a strong and
enduring youth, trained to the woods and hills, and, with occasional
stops for rest, he knew that he could continue until he reached the
camp at Manassas.  He wondered if the others had got through.  He hoped
they had, but he was still anxious to be the first who should reach
Beauregard, an ambition not unworthy on the part of youth.

He stopped after midnight for a longer rest than usual.  Colonel Talbot,
at the last moment, had made him take a small knapsack with some food
in it, and now he was grateful for his commander's foresight.  He ate,
drank from a tiny brook that he heard trickling among the trees, and
felt as if he had been made anew.  He wisely protracted this stop to
half an hour and then he went forward at an increased gait.

His flight, save for short rests, continued without interruption until
morning.  Always he looked about for a horse, intending in such an
emergency to take a horse by force and gallop to Beauregard.  But the
country was populated very thinly and he saw none.  He must continue
to rely upon his own good lungs, strong muscles, and dauntless spirit.

Dawn came, bathing the hills in gray light and unveiling the green of
the valleys below.  Then the sun showed an edge of red fire in the east,
and the full day was at hand.  Harry saw below him many horsemen in
smooth array.  They seemed to have just started, as a huge campfire a
little further up the valley was still burning.

To the weary and anxious boy it seemed a most gallant command, fresh
as the dawn, splendid horses, splendid men, overflowing with life and
strength and spirits.  His eyes traveled to one who was a little in
advance of all the others, and rested there.  The figure that held his
gaze was scarcely modern, it was more like that of a knight of old
romance.

He saw a young man, tall, and built very powerfully, riding upon an
immense black horse.  His hair and beard were long and thick, of a
golden brown that looked like pure flowing gold in the brilliant rays of
the young sun.  His coat had two rows of shining brass buttons down the
front, and was sewn thickly with gold braid.  Heavy gold braid covered
the seams of his trousers and a great sash of yellow silk was tied
around his waist.  Spurs of gold gleamed in the sun.  Long yellow gloves
covered his hands.  His hat was of the finest felt, the brim pinned back
with a golden star, while a black ostrich plume waved over the crown.

Harry gazed at this singular and striking figure with wonder.  He had
seen in the pictures knights of old France wearing such a garb as this,
and yet it did not seem so strange here.  These were strange times.
Everything was out of the normal, and the brilliant colors which would
have seemed so dandyish to him at other times appealed to him now.

He suddenly recalled that these men were in gray uniforms, and he, too,
wore a gray uniform.  They were his own people, cavalry of the Southern
army.  Recovering his presence of mind, he ran forward, shouting and
waving his hands.  The leader was the first to notice him and gave the
order to halt.  The whole command stopped with beautiful precision,
the ranks remaining even.  Then the leader, looking more than ever like
a mediaeval knight, rode slowly forward on his great black horse to meet
the youth who was running to meet him.

When Harry came near he saw that the man was young, under thirty.
He gazed steadily at the boy out of deep blue eyes, and his hair and
beard rippled like molten gold under the light breeze.

"Who are you?" he asked.

"My name is Kenton, Henry Kenton, and I am a lieutenant in the regiment
of the Invincibles, commanded by Colonel Leonidas Talbot!  We were sent
to take a fort on the other side of the mountain and took it, but the
regiment is besieged there by a much larger Northern force, and I came
through in the night for help."

The man stroked his golden beard and a light leaped up in his eye.
Any dandyish or foppish quality that he might have seemed to have
disappeared at once, and Harry saw only the soldier.

"Ah, I have heard of this expedition," he said, "and so the Invincibles
are in a trap.  We had started on another errand, but we will go to the
relief of Colonel Talbot.  My name is Stuart, lad, J. E. B. Stuart,
and this is my command."

It was Harry's first meeting with the famous Jeb Stuart, the most
picturesque of all the Southern cavalry leaders, although not superior
to the illiterate man of genius, Forrest.  Stuart inspired supreme
confidence in him.  His manner, the very brilliancy of his clothes,
seemed to say that here was one who would dare anything.

"We have some extra horses," said Stuart, "you shall mount one and guide
us."

"The country is very difficult for cavalry," said Harry.  "The slopes
are steep and are wooded heavily."

"For ordinary cavalry, yes," replied Stuart, proudly, "but these
horsemen of mine can go anywhere.  But we will not rely upon cavalry
alone.  I will send two men at full speed to the main army for infantry
reinforcements.  Meanwhile, we will hurry forward."

Mounted on a good horse, Harry felt like a new being, and his spirits
rose rapidly as the whole troop set off at a swift pace.  He rode by the
side of Stuart, who asked him many questions.  Harry saw that he was not
only brilliant and dashing, but thorough.  He was planning to relieve
Colonel Talbot, but he had no intention of dashing into a trap.

Soon they were deep in the hills and here they picked up a weary youth,
dodging about among the trees.  It was St. Clair.  He had run the
gauntlet, but he had been pursued so hotly that he had been forced to
lie hidden in the forest a long time.  He had made his uniform look as
spruce as possible and he held himself with dignity when the horsemen
approached, but he could not conceal the fact that he was exhausted.

"I congratulate you, Harry," he said, when he also was astride a horse.
"It is likely that you are the only one who has got through so far.
I'm quite sure that Langdon was driven back, and I don't know what has
become of the others.  But it was great luck to find such a command as
this."

He looked somewhat enviously at Jeb Stuart's magnificent raiment,
and again pulled and brushed at his own.

"You cannot expect to equal it," said Harry, smiling.

"Not unless my opportunities improve greatly.  I must say, also, that
the colors are a little too bright for me, although they suit him.
Everything must be in harmony, Harry, and it is certainly true of Stuart
and his uniform that they are in perfect accord.  Good clothes, Harry,
give one courage and backbone."

Stuart and his men continued to advance rapidly, although they were now
deep in the hills, and Harry realized to the full that it was a splendid
command, splendid men and splendid horses, led by a cavalryman of
genius.  Stuart neglected no precaution.  He sent scouts ahead and threw
out flankers.  When they reached the forest the ranks opened out, and,
without losing touch, a thousand men rode among the trees as easily as
they had ridden in the open fields.

They reached the crest of the last slope and Stuart, sitting his horse
with Harry and St. Clair on either side, looked through his glasses at
the valley below.

"Our people still hold it," he said.  "I can see their gray uniforms and
I have no doubt the besiegers are still in the forest.  Yes, there's
their signal!"

The heavy report of a cannon shot rolled up the valley and Harry saw a
shell burst over the fort.  Carrington was still at work, playing upon
the nerves of the defenders.

"While we have ridden through the forest," said Stuart, "a cavalry
charge here is not possible.  We must dismount, leaving one man in every
ten to hold the horses, signal to Colonel Talbot that help has come,
and then attack on foot."

A bugler advanced on horseback at Stuart's command, blew a long and
thrilling call, and then another man beside him broke out an immense
Confederate flag.

"They see us in the fort and recognize us," said Stuart.  "Hark to the
cheer!"

The faint sound of many voices in unison came up from the valley,
and Harry knew it to be the Invincibles expressing joy that help had
come.  The fort then opened with its own guns, and Stuart's dismounted
horsemen, who were armed with carbines, advanced through the forest,
using the trees for shelter, and attacking the Northern force on the
flank.  They and the Invincibles together were not strong enough to
drive off the enemy, but the heavy skirmishing lasted until the middle
of the afternoon, when a whole brigade of infantry came up from the main
army.  Then the Northern troops retreated slowly and defiantly, carrying
with them all their wounded and every gun.

"I've got to take my hat off to the mill hands and mechanics," said
St. Clair.  "I think, Harry, that if it hadn't been for your skill
and luck in getting through we would soon have been living our lives
according to their will."

Colonel Talbot congratulated Harry, but his words were few.

"Lad," he said, "you have done well."

Then he and Stuart consulted.  Harry, meanwhile, found Langdon, who had
been driven back, as St Clair had suspected.  He had also sustained a
slight wound in the arm, but he was rejoicing over their final success.

"Everything happens for the best," he said.  "You might have been driven
back, Harry, as I was.  You might not have met Stuart.  This little
wound in my arm might have been a big one in my heart.  But none of
those things happened.  Here I am almost unhurt, and here we are
victorious."

"Victorious, perhaps, but without spoils," said St. Clair.  "We've got
this fort, but we know it will take a big force to keep it.  I don't
like the way these mill hands and mechanics fight.  They hang on too
long.  After we drove them out of the fort they ought to have retreated
up the valley and left us in peace.  If they act this way when they're
raw, what'll they do when they are seasoned?"

After the conference with Colonel Talbot, Stuart and his cavalry pursued
the Northern force up the valley, not for attack, but for observation.
Stuart came back at nightfall and reported that their retreat was
covered by the heavy guns, and, if they were attacked with much success,
it must be done by at least five thousand men.

"Carrington again," said Colonel Talbot, smiling and rubbing his hands.
"You and your horsemen, Stuart, could never get a chance at the Northern
recruits, unless you rode first over Carrington's guns.  From whatever
point you approached their muzzles would be sure to face you."

"The colonel is undoubtedly right about his friend Carrington," said
St. Clair to Harry and Langdon.  "I guess those guns scared us more
than anything else."

Stuart and his command left them about midnight.  A brilliant moon and a
myriad of stars made the night so bright that Harry saw for a long time
the splendid man on the splendid horse, leading his men to some new
task.  Then he lay down and slept heavily until dawn.  They remained in
the fort two days longer, and then came an order from Beauregard for
them to abandon it, and rejoin the main army.  The shifting of forces
had now made the place useless to either side, and the Invincibles and
their new comrades gladly marched back over the mountain and into the
lowlands.

Harry found a letter from his father awaiting him.  Colonel Kenton was
now in Tennessee, where he had been joined by a large number of recruits
from Kentucky.  He would have preferred to have his son with him,
but he was far from sure of his own movements.  The regiment might yet
be sent to the east.  There was great uncertainty about the western
commanders, and the Confederate resistance there had not solidified as
it had in the east.

Harry expected prompt action on the Virginia field, but it did not come.
The two armies lay facing each other for many days.  June deepened and
the days grew hot.  Off in the mountains to the west there were many
skirmishes, with success divided about equally.  So far as Harry could
tell, these encounters meant nothing.  Their own battle at the fort
meant nothing, either.  The fort was now useless, and the two sides
faced each other as before.  Some of the Invincibles, however, were
gone forever.  Harry missed young comrades whom he had learned to like.
But in the great stir of war, when one day in its effects counted as ten,
their memories faded fast.  It was impossible, when a boy was a member
of a great army facing another great army, to remember the fallen long.
Although the long summer days passed without more fighting, there was
something to do every hour.  New troops were arriving almost daily and
they must be broken in.  Intrenchments were dug and abandoned for new
intrenchments elsewhere, which were abandoned in their turn for
intrenchments yet newer.  They moved to successive camps, but meanwhile
they became physically tougher and more enduring.

The life in the open air agreed with Harry wonderfully.  He had already
learned from Colonel Talbot and Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire how to
take care of himself, and he and St. Clair and Langdon suffered from
none of the diseases to which young soldiers are so susceptible.
But the long delays and uncertainties preyed upon them, although they
made no complaint except among themselves, and then they showed irony
rather than irritation.

"Sleeping out here under the trees is good," said Langdon, "but it isn't
like sleeping in the White House at Washington, which, as I told you
before, I've chosen as my boarding house for the coming autumn."

"There may be a delay in your plans, Tom," said Harry.  "I'd make them
flexible if I were you."

"I intend to carry 'em out sooner or later.  What's that you're reading,
Arthur?"

"A New York newspaper.  I won't let you see it, Tom, but I'll read
portions of it to you.  I'll have to expurgate it or you'd have a rush
of blood to the head, you're so excitable.  It makes a lot of fun of us.
Tells that old joke, 'hay foot, straw foot,' when we drill.  Says the
Yankees now have three hundred thousand men under the best of commanders,
and that the Yankee fleet will soon close up all our ports.  Says a belt
of steel will be stretched about us."

"Then," said Langdon, "just as soon as they get that belt of steel
stretched we'll break it in two in a half dozen places.  But go on with
those feats of fancy that you're reading from that paper."

"Makes fun of our government.  Says McDowell will be in Richmond in a
month."

"Just the time that Tom gives himself to get into Washington,"
interrupted Harry.  "But go on."

"Makes fun of our army, too, especially of us South Carolinians.
Says we've brought servants along to spread tents for us, load our guns
for us, and take care of us generally.  Says that even in war we won't
work."

"They're right, so far as Tom is concerned," said Harry.  "We're going
to give him a watch as the laziest man among the Invincibles."

"It's not laziness, it's wisdom," said Langdon.  "What's the use of
working when you don't have to, especially in a June as hot as this one
is?  I conserve my energy.  Besides, I'm going to take care of myself
in ways that you fellows don't know anything about.  Watch me."

He took his clasp-knife and dug a little hole in the ground.  Then he
repeated over it solemnly and slowly:

    "God made man and man made money;
     God made the bee and the bee made honey;
     God made Satan and Satan made sin;
     God made a little hole to put the devil in."

"What do you mean by that, Tom?" asked Harry.  "I learned it from some
fellows over in a Maryland company.  It's a charm that the children in
that state have to ward off evil.  I've a great belief in the instincts
of children, and I'm protecting myself against cannon and rifles in the
battle that's bound to come.  Say, you fellows do it, too.  I'm not
superstitious, I wouldn't dream of depending on such things, but anyway,
a charm don't hurt.  Now go ahead; just to oblige me."

Harry and St. Clair dug their holes and repeated the lines.  Langdon
sighed with relief.

"It won't do any harm and it may do some good," he said.

They were interrupted by an orderly who summoned Harry to Colonel
Talbot's tent.  The colonel had complimented the boy on his energy
and courage in bringing Stuart to his relief, when he was besieged
in the fort, and he had also received the official thanks of General
Beauregard.  Proud of his success, he was anxious for some new duty
of an active nature, and he hoped that it was at hand.  Langdon and
St. Clair looked at him enviously.

"He ought to have sent for us, too," said Langdon.  "Colonel Talbot has
too high an opinion of you, Harry."

"I've been lucky," said Harry, as he walked lightly away.  He found that
Colonel Talbot was not alone in his tent.  General Beauregard was there
also.  "You have proved yourself, Lieutenant Kenton," said General
Beauregard in flattering and persuasive tones.  "You did well in the far
south and you performed a great service when you took relief to Colonel
Talbot.  For that reason we have chosen you for a duty yet more arduous."

Beauregard paused as if he were weighing the effect of his words upon
Harry.  He had a singular charm of manner when he willed and now he used
it all.  Colonel Talbot looked keenly at the boy.

"You have shown coolness and judgment," continued Beauregard, "and they
are invaluable qualities for such a task as the one we wish you to
perform."

"I shall do my best, whatever it is," said Harry, proudly.

"You know that we have spent the month of June here, waiting," continued
General Beauregard in those soft, persuasive tones, "and that the
fighting, what there is of it, has been going on in the mountains to the
west.  But this state of affairs cannot endure much longer.  We have
reason to believe that the Northern advance in great force will soon
be made, but we wish to know, meanwhile, what is going on behind their
lines, what forces are coming down from Washington, what is the state of
their defenses, and any other information that you may obtain.  If you
can get through their lines you can bring us news which may have vital
results."

He paused and looked thoughtfully at the boy.  His manner was that of
one conferring a great honor, and the impression upon Harry was strong.
But he remembered.  This was the duty of a spy, or something like it.
He recalled Shepard and the risk he ran.  Spies die ingloriously.
Yet he might do a great service.  Beauregard read his mind.

"We ask you to be a scout, not a spy," he said.  "You may ride in your
own uniform, and, if you are taken, you will merely be a prisoner of
war."

Harry's last doubt disappeared.

"I will do my best, sir," he said.

"No one can do more," said Beauregard.

"When do you wish me to start?"

"As soon as you can get ready.  How long will that be?  Your horse will
be provided for you."

"In a half hour."

"Good," said Beauregard.  "Now, I will leave you with Colonel Talbot,
who will give you a few parting instructions."

He left the tent, but, as he went, gave Harry a strong clasp of the hand.

"Now, my boy," said Colonel Leonidas Talbot, when they were alone in the
tent, "I've but little more to say to you.  It is an arduous task that
you've undertaken, and one full of danger.  You must temper courage
with caution.  You will be of no use to our cause unless you come back.
And, Harry, you are your father's son; I want to see you come back for
your own sake, too.  Good-bye, your horse will be waiting."

Harry quickly made ready.  St. Clair and Langdon, burning with curiosity,
besieged him with questions, but he merely replied that he was riding on
an errand for Colonel Talbot.  He did not know when he would come back,
but if it should be a long time they must not forget him.

"A long time?" said St. Clair.  "A long time, Harry, means that you've
got a dangerous mission.  We'll wish you safely through it, old fellow."

"And don't forget the charm!" exclaimed Langdon.  "Of course I don't
believe in such foolishness, I wouldn't think of it for a minute, but,
anyway, they don't do any harm.  Good-bye and God bless you, Harry."

"The same from me, Harry," said St. Clair.

The strong grip of their hands still thrilled his blood as he rode away.
His pass carried him through the Southern lines, and then he went toward
the northwest, intending to pass through the hills, and reach the rear
of the Northern force.  He carried no rifle, and his gray uniform,
somewhat faded now, would not attract distant attention.  Still, he did
not care to be observed even by non-combatants, and he turned his horse
into the first stretch of forest that he could reach.

Harry, being young, felt the full importance of his errand, but it was
vague in its nature.  He was to follow his own judgment and discover
what was going on between the Northern army and Washington, no very
great distance.  When he was well hidden within the forest he stopped
and considered.  He might meet Federal scouts on errands like his own,
but the horse they had given him was a powerful animal, and he had
good weapons in his belt.  It was Virginia soil, too, and the people,
generally, were in sympathy with the South.  He relied upon this fact
more than upon any other.

The belt of forest into which he had ridden, ran along the crest of
a hill, where the soil evidently had been considered too thin for
profitable cultivation.  Yet the growth of trees and bushes was heavy,
and Harry decided to keep in the middle of it, as long as it continued
northward in the direction in which he was going.  He found a narrow
path among the trees, and with his hand on a pistol butt he rode
along it.

He expected to meet some one, but evidently the war had driven away all
who used the path, and he continued in a welcome silence and desolation.
Coming from an army where he always heard many sounds, this silence
impressed him at last.  Here in the woods there was a singular peace.
The June sun had been hot that year in Virginia, but in the sheltered
places the leaves were not burned.  A moist, fresh greenness enclosed
him and presently he heard the trickle of running water.

He came to a little brook, not more than a foot wide and only two or
three inches deep, but running joyfully over its pebbly bottom.  Both
Harry and his horse drank of the water, which was cold, and then they
went with the stream, which followed the slow downward slope of the hill
toward the north.  After a mile, he turned to the edge of the forest and
looked over the valley.  He caught his breath at the great panorama of
green hills and of armies upon them that was spread out before him.
Down there under the southern horizon were the long lines of his own
people, and toward Washington, but much nearer to him, were the lines
of a detachment of the Northern army.  Between, he caught the flash of
water from Bull Run, Young's Branch and the lesser streams.  Behind the
Northern force the sun glinted on a long line of bayonets and he knew
that it was made by a regiment marching to join the others.  The
spectacle, with all the somber aspects of war, softened by the distance,
was inspiring.  Harry drew a long breath and then another.  It was in
truth more like a spectacle than war's actuality.  He counted five
colonial houses, white and pillared, standing among green trees and
shrubbery.  Smoke was rising from their chimneys, as if the people who
lived in them were going about their peaceful occupations.

He turned back into the forest, and rode until he came to its end,
two or three miles further on.  Here the brook darted down through
pasture land to merge its waters finally into those of Bull Run.
Harry left it regretfully.  It had been a good comrade with its pleasant
chatter over the pebbles.

Two miles of open country lay before him, and beyond was another cloak
of trees.  He decided to ride for the forest, and remain there until
dark.  He would not then be more than fifteen miles from Washington,
and he could make the remaining distance under the cover of darkness.
He followed a narrow road between two fields, in one of which he saw a
farmer ploughing, an old man, gnarled and knotty, whose mind seemed bent
wholly upon his work.  He was ploughing young corn, and although he
could not keep from seeing Harry, he took no apparent notice of him.

The boy rode on, but the picture of the grim old man ploughing between
the two armies lingered with him.  The fence enclosing the two fields
was high, staked, and ridered, and presently he was glad of it.  He
beheld on a hill to his right, about a half mile away, four horsemen,
and the color of their uniforms was blue.  He bent low over his horse
that they might not see him, and rode on, the pulses in his temples
beating heavily.  He was glad that gray was not an assertive color,
and he was glad that his own gray had been faded by the hot June sun.

Half way to the protecting wood he saw one of the men on the hill,
undoubtedly an officer, put glasses to his eyes.  Harry was sure at
first that he had been discovered, but the man turned the glasses on
Beauregard's camp, and the boy rode on unnoticed, praying that the
same luck would attend him in the other half of the distance.



CHAPTER XIV

IN WASHINGTON


A quarter of a mile from the forest, the wood ascended considerably,
throwing him into relief.  He felt some shivers here, as he did not know
who might be watching him.  Field glasses were ugly things when a man
was trying to hide.  He glanced at the little group that he had seen
on the hill, and he noticed now that the officer with the glasses was
looking at him.  But Harry was a long distance away, and he had the
courage and prudence of mind to keep from falling into a panic.  He did
not believe that they could tell the color of his uniform at that range,
but if he whipped his horse into a gallop, pursuit would certainly come
from somewhere.

He rode slowly on, letting his figure sway negligently, and he did not
look back again at the group on the hill, where the officer was watching
him.  But he looked from side to side, fearing that horsemen in blue
might appear galloping across the fields.  It was a supreme test of
nerve and will.  More than once he felt an almost irresistible
temptation to lash his horse and gallop for the wood as hard as he
could.  That wood seemed wonderfully deep and dark, fit to hide any
fugitive.  But it had acquired an extraordinary habit of moving further
and further away.  He had to exert his will so hard that his hand fairly
trembled on his bridle rein.  Yet he remained master of himself, and
went on sitting the saddle in the slouchy attitude that he had adopted
when he knew himself to be observed.

The wood was only three or four hundred yards away, when far to his left
he saw several horsemen appear on a slope, and he was quite sure that
their uniforms were blue.  The distance to the wood was now so short
that the temptation to gallop was powerful, but he still resisted.
Pride, too, helped him and he did not increase the pace of his horse a
particle.  He saw the dark, cool shadow very near now, and he thought he
heard one of the new horsemen on his left shout to him.  But he would
not look around.  Preserving appearances to the last, he rode into the
forest, and its heavy shadows enveloped him.

He stopped a moment under the trees and wiped the perspiration from his
forehead.  He was also seized with a violent fit of trembling, but it
was over in a half minute, and then turning his horse from the path he
rode into the densest part of the forest.

Harry felt an immense relief.  He knew that he might be followed,
but he did not consider it probable.  It was more than likely that he
passed for some countryman riding homeward.  Martial law had not yet
covered all the hills with a network of iron rules.  So he rode on
boldly, and he noticed with satisfaction that the forest seemed to be
extensive and dense.  Night, heavy with clouds, was coming, too, and
soon he would be so well hidden that only chance would enable an enemy
to find him.

In a half hour he stopped and took his bearings as best he could.
It seemed to be a wild bit of country.  He judged that it was ground
cropped too much in early times, and left to grow into wilderness again.
He was not likely to find anything in it save a hut or two of charcoal
burners.  It was a lonely region, very desolate now, with the night
birds calling.  The clouds grew heavier and he would have been glad of
shelter, but he put down the wish, recalling to himself with a sort of
fierceness that he was a soldier and must scorn such things.  Moreover,
it behooved him to make most of his journey in the night, and this
forest, which ran almost to Washington, seemed to be provided for his
approach.

He had fixed the direction of Washington firmly in his mind, and having
a good idea of location, he kept his horse going at a good walk toward
his destination.  As his eyes, naturally strong, grew used to the forest,
and his horse was sure of foot, they were able to go through the bushes
without much trouble.  He stopped at intervals to listen for a possible
enemy--or friend--but heard nothing except the ordinary sounds of the
forest.

By and by a wind rose and blew all the clouds away.  A shining moon and
a multitude of brilliant stars sprang out.  Just then Harry came to a
hillock, clear of trees, with the ground dipping down beyond.  He rode
to the highest point of the hillock and looked toward the east into a
vast open world, lighted by the moon and stars.  Off there just under
the horizon he caught a gleam of white and he knew instinctively what
it was.  It was the dome of the Capitol in that city which was now the
capital of the North alone.  It was miles away, but he saw it and his
heart thrilled.  He forgot, for the moment, that by his own choice it
was no longer his own.

Harry sat on his horse and looked a long time at that far white glow,
deep down under the horizon.  There was the capital of his own country,
the real capital.  Somehow he could not divest himself of that idea,
and he looked until mists and vapors began to float up from the lowlands,
and the white gleam was lost behind them.  Then he rode on slowly and
thoughtfully, trying to think of a plan that would bring rich rewards
for the cause for which he was going to fight.

He had discovered something already.  He had seen the bayonets of a
regiment marching to join the Northern army, and he had no doubt that he
would see others.  Perhaps they would consider themselves strong enough
in a day or two to attack.  It was for him to learn.  He was back in the
forest and he now turned his course more toward the east.  By dawn he
would be well in the rear of the Northern army, and he must judge then
how to act.

But all his calculations were upset by a very simple thing, one of
Nature's commonest occurrences--rain.  The heavy clouds that had
gathered early in the night were gone away merely for a time.  Now they
came back in battalions, heavier and more numerous than ever.  The
shining moon and the brilliant stars were blotted out as if they had
never been.  A strong wind moaned and a cold rain came pouring into
his face.  The blanket that he carried on his saddle, and which he
now wrapped around him, could not protect him.  The fierce rain drove
through it and he was soaked and shivering.  The darkness, too, was so
great that he could see only a few yards before him, and he let the
horse take his course.

Harry thought grimly that he was indeed well hidden in the forest.
He was so well hidden that he was lost even to himself.  In all that
darkness and rain he could not retain the sense of direction, and he had
no idea where he was.  He rambled about for hours, now and then trying
to find shelter behind massive tree trunks, and, after every failure,
going on in the direction in which he thought Washington lay.  His
shivering became so strong that he was afraid it would turn into a real
chill, and he resolved to seek a roof, if the forest should hold such a
thing.

It was nearly dawn when he saw dimly the outlines of a cabin standing
in a tiny clearing.  He believed it to be the hut of a charcoal burner,
and he was resolved to take any risk for the sake of its roof.  He
dismounted and beat heavily upon the door with the butt of a pistol.
The answer was so long in coming that he began to believe the hut was
empty, which would serve his purpose best of all, but at last a voice,
thick with sleep, called: "Who's there?"

"I'm lost and I need shelter," Harry replied.

"Wait a minute," returned the voice.

Harry, despite the beat of the rain, heard a shuffling inside, and then,
through a crack in the door, he saw a light spring up.  He hoped the
owner of the voice would hurry.  The rain seemed to be beating harder
than ever upon him and the cold was in his bones.  Then the door was
thrown back suddenly and an uncommonly sharp voice shouted:

"Drop the reins!  Throw up your hands an' walk in, where I kin see what
you are!"

Harry found himself looking into the muzzle of an old-fashioned
long-barreled rifle.  But the hammer was cocked, and it was held by a
pair of large, calloused, and steady hands, belonging to a tall, thin
man with powerful shoulders and a bearded face.

There was no help for it.  The boy dropped the reins, raised his hands
over his head and walked into the hut, where the rain at least did not
reach him.  It was a rude place of a single room, with a fire-place at
one end, a bed in a corner, a small pine table on which a candle burned,
and clothing and dried herbs hanging from hooks on the wall.  The man
wore only a shirt and trousers, and he looked unkempt and wild, but he
was a resolute figure.

"Stand over thar, close to the light, whar I kin see you," he said.

Harry moved over, and the muzzle of the rifle followed him.  The man
could look down the sights of his rifle and at the same time examine his
visitor, which he did with thoroughness.

"Now, then, Johnny Reb," he said, "what are you doin' here this time o'
night an' in such weather as this, wakin' honest citizens out o' their
beds?"

"Nothing but stand before the muzzle of your rifle."

The man grinned.  The answer seemed to appeal to him, and he lowered the
weapon, although he did not relax his watchfulness.

"I got the drop on you, Johnny Reb; you're boun' to admit that," he
said.  "You didn't ketch Seth Perkins nappin'."

"I admit it.  But why do you call me Johnny Reb?"

"Because that's what you are.  You can't tell much about the color of
a man's coat after it's been through sech a big rain, but I know yourn
is gray.  I ain't takin' no part in this war.  They've got to fight it
as best they kin without me.  I'm jest an innercent charcoal burner,
'bout the most innercent that ever lived, I guess, but atween you an' me,
Johnny Reb, my feelin's lean the way my state, Old Virginny, leans,
that is, to the South, which I reckon is lucky fur you."

Harry saw that the man had blue eyes and he saw, too, that they were
twinkling.  He knew with infallible instinct that he was honest and
truthful.

"It's true," he said.  "I'm a Southern soldier, and I'm in your hands."

"I see that you trust me, an' I think I kin trust you.  Jest you wait
'til I put that hoss o' yourn in the lean-to behind the cabin."

He darted out of the door and returned in a minute shaking the water
from his body.

"That hoss feels better already," he said, "an' you will, too, soon.
Now, I shet this door, then I kindle up the fire ag'in, then you take
off your clothes an' put them an' yo'self afore the blaze.  In time you
an' your clothes are all dry."

The man's manner was all kindness, and the poor little cabin had become
a palace.  He blew at the coals, threw on dry pine knots, and in a few
minutes the flames roared up the chimney.

Harry took off his wet clothing, hung it on two cane chairs before the
fire and then proceeded to roast himself.  Warmth poured back into his
body and the cold left his bones.  Despite his remonstrances, Perkins
took a pot out of his cupboard and made coffee.  Harry drank two cups of
it, and he knew now that the danger of chill, to be followed by fever,
was gone.

"Mr. Perkins," he said at length, "you are an angel."

Perkins laughed.

"Mebbe I air," he said, "but I 'low I don't look like one.  Guess ef I
went up an' tried to j'in the real angels Gabriel would say, 'Go back,
Seth Perkins, an' improve yo'self fur four or five thousand years afore
you try to keep comp'ny like ours.'  But now, Johnny Reb, sence you're
feelin' a heap better you might tell what you wuz tryin' to do, prowlin'
roun' in these woods at sech a time."

"I meant to go behind the Yankee army, see what reinforcements were
coming up, find out their plans, if I could, and report to our general."

Perkins whistled softly.

"Say," he said, "you look like a boy o' sense.  What are you wastin'
your time in little things fur?  Couldn't you find somethin' bigger an'
a heap more dangerous that would stir you up an' give you action?"

Harry laughed.

"I was set to do this task, Mr. Perkins," he said, "and I mean to do it."

"That shows good sperrit, but ef I wuz set to do it I wouldn't.  Do you
know whar you are an' what's around you, Johnny Reb?"

"No, I don't."

"Wa'al, you're right inside o' the Union lines.  The armies o' Patterson
an' McDowell hem in all this forest, an' I reckon mebbe it wuz a good
thing fur you that the storm came up an' you got past in it.  Wuz you
expectin', Johnny Reb, to ride right into the Yankee pickets with that
Confedrit uniform on?"

"I don't know exactly what I intended to do.  I meant to see in the
morning.  I didn't know I was so far inside their lines."

"You know it now, an' if you're boun' to do what you say you're settin'
out to do, then you've got to change clothes.  Here, I'll take these an'
hide 'em."

He snatched Harry's uniform from the chair, ran up a ladder into a
little room under the eaves, and returned with some rough garments under
his arm.

"These are my Sunday clothes," he said.  "You're pow'ful big fur your
years, an' they'll come purty nigh fittin' you.  Leastways, they'll fit
well enough fur sech times ez these.  Now you wear 'em, ef you put any
value on your life."

Harry hesitated.  He wished to go as a scout, and not as a spy.  Clothes
could not change a man, but they could change his standing.  Yet the
words of Perkins were obviously true.  But he would not go back.
He must do his task.

"I'll take your clothes on one condition, Mr. Perkins," he said, "you
must let me pay for them."

"Will it make you feel better to do so?"

"A great deal better."

"All right, then."

Harry took from his saddle bags the purse which he had removed from his
coat pocket when he undressed, and handed a ten dollar gold piece to the
charcoal burner.

"What is it?" asked the charcoal burner.

"A gold eagle, ten dollars."

"I've heard of 'em, but it's the first I've ever seed.  I'm bound to say
I regard that shinin' coin with a pow'ful sight o' respeck.  But if I
take it I'm makin' three dollars.  Them clothes o' mine jest cost seven
dollars an' I've wore 'em four times."

"Count the three dollars in for shelter and gratitude and remember,
you've made your promise."

Perkins took the coin, bit it, pitched it up two or three times,
catching it as it fell, and then put it upon the hearth, where the
blaze could gleam upon it.

"It's shorely a shiner," he said, "an' bein' that it's the first I've
ever had, I reckon I'll take good care of it.  Wait a minute."

He picked up the coin again, ran up the ladder into the dark eaves of
the house, and came back without it.

"Now, Johnny Reb," he said, "put on my clothes and see how you feel."

Harry donned the uncouth garb, which fitted fairly well after he had
rolled up the trousers a little.

"You'd pass for a farmer," said Perkins.  "I fed your hoss when I put
him up, an' as soon as the rain's over you kin start ag'in, a sight
safer than you wuz when you wore that uniform.  Ef you come back this
way ag'in I'll give it to you.  Now, you'd better take a nap.  I'll call
you when the rain stops."

Harry felt that he had indeed fallen into the hands of a friend, and
stretching himself on a pallet which the charcoal burner spread in front
of the fire, he soon fell asleep.  He awoke when Perkins shook his
shoulder and found that it was dawn.

"The rain's stopped, day's come an' I guess you'd better be goin'"
said the man.  "I've got breakfast ready for you, an' I hope, boy,
that you'll get through with a whole skin.  I said that both sides would
have to fight this war without my help, but I don't mind givin' a boy
a hand when he needs it."

Harry did not say much, but he was deeply grateful.  After breakfast he
mounted his horse, received careful directions from Perkins and rode
toward Washington.  The whole forest was fresh and green after its heavy
bath, and birds, rejoicing in the morning, sang in every bush.  Harry's
elation returned.  Clothes impart a certain quality, and, dressed in
a charcoal burner's Sunday best, he began to bear himself like one.
He rode in a slouchy manner, and he transferred the pistols from his
belt to the large inside pockets of his new coat.  As he passed in an
hour from the forest into a rolling open country, he saw that Perkins
had advised him wisely.  Dressed in the Confederate uniform he would
certainly have had trouble before he made the first mile.

He saw the camps of troops both to right and left and he knew that these
were the flank of the Northern army.  Then from the crest of another
hill he caught his second view of Washington.  The gleam from the dome
of the Capitol was much more vivid now, and he saw other white buildings
amid the foliage.  Since he had become technically a spy through the
mere force of circumstances, Harry took a daring resolve.  He would
enter Washington itself.  They were all one people, Yanks and Johnny
Rebs, and no one could possibly know that he was from the Southern army.
Only one question bothered him.  He did not know what to do with the
horse.

But he rode briskly ahead, trusting that the problem of the horse would
solve itself, and, as he turned a field, several men in blue uniforms
rode forward and ordered him to halt.  Harry obeyed promptly.

"Where are you going?" asked the leading man, a minor officer.

"To Washin'ton," replied the boy in the uncouth language that he thought
fitted his role.

"And what are you going to Washington for?"

"To sell this hoss," replied Harry, on the impulse of the moment.
"I raised him myself, but he's too fine fur me to ride, specially when
hosses are bringin' sech good prices."

"He is a fine animal," said the officer, looking at him longingly.
"Do you want to sell him now?"

Harry shook his head.

"No," he replied.  "I'm goin' to make one o' them big bugs in Washin'ton
pay fur him an' pay fur him good."

The officer laughed.

"You're not such a simpleton as you look," he said.  "You're right.
They'll pay you more for him in the capital than I could.  Ride on.
They may pass you over Long Bridge or they may not.  That part of it
is not my business."

Harry went forward at a trot, glad enough to leave such dangerous
company behind.  But he saw that he was now in the very thick of mighty
risks.  He would encounter a menace at every turn.  Had he realized
fully the character of his undertaking when he was in the charcoal
burner's hut he would have hesitated long.  Now, there was nothing to
do but go ahead and take his fate, whatever it might be.

Yet his tale of wishing to sell a horse served him well.  After a few
questions, it passed him by a half dozen interruptions, and he became so
bold that he stopped and bought food for his noon-day meal at a little
wayside tavern kept by a woman.  Three or four countrymen were lounging
about and all of them were gossips.  But Harry found it worth while to
listen to their gossip.  It was their business to carry vegetables and
other provisions into Washington for sale and they picked up much news.
They said that the Northern government was pushing all its troops to the
front.  All the politicians and writers in Washington were clamoring for
a battle.  One blow and "Jeff Davis and Secession" would be smashed to
atoms.  Harry's young blood flamed at the contemptuous words, but he
could not afford to show any resentment.  Yet this was valuable
information.  He could confirm Beauregard's belief that an attack would
soon be made in great force.

When Harry left them he turned again to the left, as he saw a stretch of
country rolling and apparently wooded lying in that direction.  Once,
when a young boy, he had come to Washington with his father for a stay
of several weeks, and he had a fair acquaintance with the region about
the capital.  He knew that forested hills lay ahead of him and beyond
them the Potomac.

In another hour he was in the hills, which he found without people.
Through every opening in the leaves he saw Washington and he could also
discern long lines of redoubts on the Virginia side of the river.

Late in the afternoon he came to a small, abandoned log cabin.  He
inferred that its owner had moved away because of the war.  As nearly as
he could judge it had not been occupied for several weeks.  Back of it
was a small meadow enclosed with a rail fence, but everything else was
deep woods.  He turned his horse into the meadow and left his saddle,
bridle and saddle blanket in the house.  He might not find anything when
he returned, but he must take the risk.

Then he set off at a brisk pace through the woods, which opened out a
little after dusk, and disclosed a great pillared white house, with
surrounding outbuildings.  He knew at once that this was Arlington,
the home of one of the Southern generals, Lee, of whom he had heard his
father speak well.

But he also saw, despite the dusk, blue uniforms and the gleam of
bayonets.  And as he looked he saw, too, earthworks and the signs that
many men were present.  He lay long among the bushes until the night
thickened and darkened and he resolved to inspect the earthworks
thoroughly.  No very strict watch seemed to be kept, and, in truth,
it did not seem to be needed here so near to Washington, and so far
away from the Southern army.

Before ten o'clock everything settled into quiet, and he cautiously
climbed a great beech which was in full and deep foliage.  The boughs
were so many and the leaves so dense that one standing directly under
him could not have seen him.  But he went up as far as he could go, and,
crouched there, made a comprehensive survey.

It was a fine moonlight night and he saw the earthworks stretching for a
long distance, thorough and impregnable to anything except a great army.
Beyond that was a silver band which was the Potomac, and beyond the
river were the clustered roofs which were Washington.  But he turned his
eyes back to the earthworks, and he tried to fasten firmly in his mind
their number and location.  This, too, would be important news, most
welcome to Beauregard.

The boy's elation grew.  They had given him a delicate and dangerous
task, but he was doing it.  He had overcome every obstacle so far,
and he would overcome them to the end.  He was bound to enter that
Washington which, in the distance, seemed to lie in such a close cluster.

He felt that he had lingered long enough at Arlington, and, descending,
he made a great curve around the earthworks, coming to the river north
of Arlington.  His next problem was the passage of the Potomac.  He did
not dare to try Long Bridge, which he knew would be guarded strictly,
but he thought he might find some boatman who would take him over.
As the capital was so crowded, the farmers were continually crossing
with loads of provisions, and now that an uncommonly hot July had come
the night would be a favorite time for the passage.

A search up and down the bank brought its reward.  A Virginian, who said
his name was Grimes, had a heavy boat filled with vegetables, and Harry
was welcome as a helper.

"It's a dollar for you," said Grimes, who did not trouble to ask the boy
his name, "an' here are your oars."

The two, pulling strongly, shot the boat out into the stream, and then
rowed in a diagonal line for the city, which rose up brilliant and great
in the moonlight.  Other boats were in the river, but they paid no
attention to the barge, loaded with produce, and rowed by two innocent
countrymen.  They soon reached the Washington shore, and Grimes handed
Harry a silver dollar.

"You're a strong young fellow," he said, "an' I guess you've earned the
money.  My farm is only four miles up the river an' thar's goin' to be a
big market for all I kin raise.  I need a good han' to help me work it.
How'd you like to come with me an' take a good job, while them that
don't know no better go ahead an' do the fightin'?"

"Thank you for your offer," replied Harry, "but I've got business to
attend to in Washington."

He slipped the dollar into his pocket, because he had earned it honestly,
and entered Washington, just as the rising sun began to gild domes and
roofs.  Coming from the boat, his appearance aroused no suspicion.
People were pouring into Washington then as they were pouring into the
Confederate capital at Richmond.  One dressed as he, and looking as he,
could enter or depart almost as he pleased, despite the ring of
fortifications.

Up went the sun, and the full day came, extremely hot and clear.
Harry turned into a little restaurant, and spent half of his well-earned
dollar for breakfast.  Neither proprietor nor waiter gave him more
than a casual glance.  Evidently they were used to serving countrymen.
Harry, feeling refreshed and strong again, paid for his food and went
outside.

The streets were thronged.  He had expected nothing else, but there was
a great air of excitement and expectancy as if something important were
going to happen.

"What is it?" asked Harry of a man beside him.

"Don't you know what day this is?" asked the man.

"I've forgot," replied the boy in the slouchy speech and intonation of
the hills.  "I jest came in with dad this mornin', bringin' a wagon load
of fresh vegetables."

"You look as foolish as you talk," said the man scornfully.  "This
is the Fourth of July, and the special session of Congress called by
President Lincoln is to meet this morning and decide how to give the
rebels the thrashing they need."

"I did hear somethin' about that," replied Harry, "but workin' in the
field I furgot all about it.  I 'low I'll stroll that way."

He drifted on with the crowd toward the Capitol, which rose nobler and
more imposing than ever, a great marble building, gleaming white in the
sunshine.  Harry's heart throbbed.  He could not yet dissociate himself
from the idea that he, as one of the nation, was a part owner of the
Capitol.  But, forgetting all danger, he persisted in his errand.
A great event was about to occur, and he intended to see it.

There were soldiers everywhere.  The streets blazed with uniforms,
but the people were allowed to gather about the Capitol and many also
entered.  A friendly sentinel passed Harry, who stood for a few moments
in the rotunda.  He was careful to keep near other spectators, in order
that he might not attract attention to himself.

All things that he saw cut sharply into his sensitive and eager mind.
It was in truth an extraordinary situation for one who had come as he
had come, and he waited, calm of face, but with every pulse beating.
The comments of the other spectators told him who the famous men were
as they entered.  Here were Cameron and Wade of the lowering brows.
There passed Taney, the venerable Chief Justice, and then dry and quiet
Hamlin, the Vice-President, on his way to preside over the Senate,
went by.  A tall and magnificent figure in a general's uniform next
attracted Harry's attention.  He was an old man, but he held himself
very erect and his head was crowned with splendid snowy hair.

"Old Fuss and Feathers," said a man near Harry, and the boy knew that
this was General Scott, the Virginian, who had led the famous and
victorious march into the City of Mexico, and who was now in name,
but in name only, commander of the Northern army.  His father had served
under him in those memorable battles and Harry looked at him with a
certain veneration, as the old man passed on and disappeared in another
room.  Then came more, some famous and others destined to be so.

The atmosphere of the great building was surcharged.  Harry and his
comrades had heard that the North was discouraged, that the people
would not fight, that they would "let the erring sisters go in peace."
It did not seem so to him here.  The talk was all of war and of invading
the South, and he seemed to feel a tenacious spirit behind it.

He managed to secure entrance to the lobbies of both Senate and House,
and he listened for a while to the debates.  He discovered the same
spirit there.  He felt that he had a right to report not only on the
forts of Washington and the movements of brigades, but also on the
temper in the North.  Resolution and tenacity, he now saw, were worth
as much as cannon balls.

Harry did not leave the Capitol until the middle of the afternoon,
when he drifted back to the restaurant at which he had obtained his
breakfast, where he spent the other half of the dollar for luncheon.
Then he resolved to escape from Washington that night.  He had picked up
by casual talk and observation together a fair knowledge of Washington's
defenses.  Above all he had learned that the North was pouring troops in
an unbroken stream into the capital, and that the great advance on the
line of Bull Run would take place very soon.  He could scarcely expect
to achieve more; he had already surpassed his hopes, and it was surely
time to go.

He left the restaurant.  The streets were still crowded, and he saw
standing at the nearest corner a figure that seemed familiar.  He took a
long look, and then he was shaken with alarm.  It was Shepard.  He had
seen him under such tense conditions that he could never forget the man.
The turn of his shoulders, the movement of his head--all were familiar.
And Harry had a great respect for the keenness and intelligence of
Shepard.  He could not forget how Shepard had talked to him that night
in Montgomery.  There was something uncanny about the man, and he had a
sudden conviction that Shepard had seen him long since and was watching
him.  He thrust his hands into his capacious pockets.  The pistols were
still there, and he resolved that he would use them if need be.

He went at first toward the Potomac, and he did not look back for a
long time, rambling about the streets in a manner apparently aimless.
Now and then a quiver ran down his back, and he knew it was due to the
mental fear that Shepard was pursuing.  When he did look back at last he
did not see him, and he felt immediate elation.  It would not be long
now until dark, and then he would make his escape across the river.

Time was slow, but it could not keep darkness back forever, and, as soon
as it had come fully, he turned toward the north.  Southern troops would
not be looked for there, and egress would be easier in that direction.
He passed on without interruption and soon was in the suburbs, which
were then so shabby.  Then he looked back, and cold fear plucked at the
roots of his hair.  A man was following him, and he could tell even in
the dim light that it was Shepard.

A shudder shook him now.  A rope was the fate for a spy.  But he
recovered himself and walked on faster than ever.  The cabins thinned
away, and he saw before him bushes.  His keen hearing brought to him
the soft sound of the pursuing footsteps.  Now he took his resolution.
There were few games at which two could not play.

He passed between two bushes, came around and returned to the open.
But he returned with one of the pistols cocked and levelled, his finger
on the trigger.  Shepard, pursuing swiftly, walked almost against the
muzzle, and Harry laughed softly.

"Well, Mr. Shepard," he said, "you've followed me well, but as I've no
mind to be hung for a spy or anything else, I must ask you to go back."

"You have the advantage at present, it is true," said Shepard, "but what
makes you think I was going to shoot at you or have you seized?"

"Isn't it what one would naturally expect?"

"Yes--perhaps.  But I could have given the alarm while you were still in
the city.  I speak the truth when I say I do not know just what I had
in mind.  But at all events the tables are turned.  You hold me at the
pistol's muzzle and I admit it."

He smiled and the boy could not keep from liking him.

"Mr. Shepard," said Harry, "what you told me at Montgomery was true.
We of the South did not realize the numbers, power and spirit of the
North.  I know now the truth of what you told me, but, on the other hand,
you of the North do not realize the fire, courage and devotion of the
South."

"I understand it, but I'm afraid that not many of our people do so.
Suppose we call it quits once more.  Let this be Montgomery over again.
You do not want to shoot me here any more than I wanted to shoot you
down there."

"I admit that also," said Harry.

"Then you are safe from me, if I'm safe from you."

"Agreed," said Harry, as he lowered the weapon.

"Good-bye," said Shepard.

"Good-bye."

But they did not offer to shake hands.  Each turned his back on the
other, and, when Harry stopped in the bushes, he saw only the dim
outlines of Washington.  At midnight he found a colored man who, for pay,
rowed him across the Potomac.  At dawn he found his horse peacefully
grazing in the meadow, and at the next dawn he was once more within the
southern lines.



CHAPTER XV

BATTLE'S EVE


Harry found little change in the Southern army, except that more troops
had come up from Richmond.  It still rested upon Bull Run.  The country
here was old, having been cropped for many generations, the soil mostly
clay and cut in deep ruts.  There were many ravines and water courses,
and hillocks were numerous.  Colonel Talbot had told Harry a month
before that it was not a bad place for a battle ground, and he
remembered it now as he came back to it.  He had not taken the time
to return to the charcoal burner's hut for his uniform, and, when he
approached his own lines he still wore the Sunday best of Perkins.

The sentinel who hailed him first doubted his claim that he was a member
of the Invincibles, but he insisted so urgently, and called all its
officers by name so readily that he was passed on.  He dismounted,
gave his horse to an orderly, and walked toward a clump of trees where
he saw Colonel Talbot writing at a small table in the open.  The colonel,
engrossed in his work, did not look up, as the boy's footsteps made
little sound on the turf.  When Harry stood before him he saluted and
said:

"I have returned to make my report, Colonel Talbot."

The colonel looked up, uttered a cry of pleasure and seized Harry by
both hands.

"Thank God, you've come back, my boy!" he said.  "I hesitated to send
your father's son on such an errand, but I thought that you would
succeed.  You have seen the enemy's forces?"

"I've been in Washington, itself," said Harry, some pride showing in his
voice.

"Then we'll go at once to General Beauregard.  He is in his tent now,
conferring with some of his chief officers."

A great marquee stood in the shade of a grove, only two or three hundred
yards away.  Its sides were open, as the heat was great, and Harry saw
the commander-in-chief within, talking earnestly with men in the uniform
of generals.  Longstreet, Early, Hill and others were there.  Harry was
somewhat abashed, but he had the moral support of Colonel Talbot, and,
after the first few moments of embarrassment, he told his story in a
direct and incisive manner.  The officers listened with attention.

"It confirms the other reports," said Beauregard.

"It goes further," said Longstreet.  "Our young friend here is obviously
a lad of intelligence and discernment and what he saw in Washington
shows that the North is resolved to crush us.  The battle that we are
going to fight will not be the last battle by any means."

"Each side is too sanguine," said Hill.

"You have done well, Lieutenant Kenton," said Beauregard, "and now you
can rejoin your regiment.  You are to receive a promotion of one grade."

Harry was glad to leave the marquee and hurry toward the camp of the
Invincibles.  The first of his friends whom he saw was Happy Tom Langdon,
bathing his face in a little stream that flowed into Young's Branch.
He walked up and smote him joyously on the back.  Langdon sprang to his
feet in anger and exclaimed:

"Hey, you fellow, what do you mean by that?"

He saw before him a tall, gawky youth in ill-fitting clothes, his face a
mask of dust.  But this same dusty youth grinned and replied:

"I hit you once, and if you don't speak to me more politely I'll hit you
twice."

Langdon stared.  Then recognition came.

"Harry Kenton, by all that's wonderful!" he exclaimed.  "And so you've
come back!  I was afraid you never would!  What have you been doing,
Harry?"

"I've been pretty busy.  I drove in the right wing of the Yankee army,
put to flight a couple of brigades in their center, then I went on to
Washington and had a talk with Lincoln.  I told him the North would have
me to reckon with if he kept on with this war, but he said he believed
he'd go ahead anyhow.  I even mentioned your name to him, but the menace
did no good."

Langdon called to St. Clair and soon Harry was surrounded by friends who
gave him the warmest of greetings and who insisted upon the tale of his
adventures, a part of which he was free to tell.  Then a new uniform was
brought to him, and, after a long and refreshing bath in a deep pool of
the stream, he put it on.  He felt now as if he had been entirely made
over, and, as he strolled back to camp, a tall, thin man, black of hair
and pallid of face, hailed him.

Harry took two glances before he recognized Arthur Travers in the
Southern uniform.  Then he grasped his hand eagerly and asked him when
he had come.

"Only two days ago," replied Travers.  "I'm in another regiment farther
along Bull Run.  I merely came over here to tell you that your father
was well when I last heard from him.  He is with the Western forces that
are to be under Albert Sidney Johnston."

Harry did not care greatly for Travers, but it was pleasant to see
anybody from the old home, and they talked some time.  But Harry did
not see him again soon, as the bonds of discipline were now tightened.
Regiments were kept in ranks and the men were not permitted to wander
from their places.  Northern bands were continually in their front,
and it was reported daily that the great army at Washington was about
to move.

Yet the days passed, and no important event occurred.  July advanced.
The heat became more intense.  The fields were bare, the vegetation
trodden out by armies, and, when the wind rose, clouds of dust beat upon
them.  It was lucky for them that the country was cut by so many streams.

The Invincibles were moved about several times, but they stopped at
last at a little plateau where a branch railroad joined the main stem,
giving to the place the name Manassas Junction.  Bull Run was near,
flowing between high banks, but with crossings at two fords and two
bridges.  Beauregard had thrown up earthworks at the station, and strong
batteries were hidden in the foliage at the fords.  The Southern army,
weary of waiting, was eager for battle.  The Northern people, also weary
of waiting, demanded that their own troops advance.

As Harry sat with his friends one hot night the word was passed that the
Northern army was coming at last.  The Southern scouts had reported that
McDowell's whole force was already on the march and was drawing near.
It would attempt the passage of Bull Run.  A murmur ran through the camp
of the Invincibles, but there was little talk.  They had already tasted
of battle at the fort in the valley, and it was not a thing to be taken
lightly.

Harry resolved that he would sleep if he could, but there was no rest
for the Invincibles just then.  An order came from Beauregard, and,
with Colonel Talbot at their head, they took up their arms, marching to
one of the fords of Bull Run, where they lay down among trees near a
battery.  They were forbidden to talk, but they whispered, nevertheless.
The ford before them was Blackburn's, and the heavy attack of the
Northern army would be made there in the morning.

Harry and the Invincibles were at the very edge of the river.  They had
been under heavy fire before, but, nevertheless, everything they now saw
or heard played upon their nerves.  The murmur of the little river was
multiplied thrice.  Every time a bayonet or a saber rattled it smote
with sharpness upon the ear.  The neigh of a horse became a fierce,
lingering note, and out of the darkness that covered the rolling country
in front of them came many sounds, but few of which were real.

For a long time there was movement on their own side of the stream.
Troops were continually coming up in the night and taking position.
It required no acute mind to perceive that the Southern commander
expected the main attack to be made here, and was massing his troops in
force to receive it.  Except at the ford itself the banks of the river
were high, but those on the Northern side were higher.  A skirt of
forest lined the Southern bank, and Harry saw Longstreet and his men
march into it, and lie there on their arms.  Nearer to him among the
trees were the powerful batteries of artillery.  Beauregard himself had
come and he now had with him seven brigades eager for the attack.

The night was hot and windless, save at distant intervals, when a slight
breeze blew from the North.  Then it brought dust with it, and Harry
believed that it came from the dry soil, trod to powder by the marching
feet of a great army, and the wheels of many cannon.

Comparative silence came after a while on his own side of the river.
There was no sharp sound, only a low and almost continuous murmur made
by the whispering, and restless movements which so many thousands of men
could not avoid.  But the sound was so steady that they heard above it
the croak of frogs at the edge of the stream, and then another sound
which Harry at first did not understand.

"What is it?" he whispered to St. Clair, who lay a little higher than he.

"It's a lot of our men crossing the ford.  Raise up and you can see them
walking in the water.  I take it that the general is going to put a
force in the bushes and trees on the other bank to sting the Northern
army good and hard before it pushes home the main attack."

Standing up Harry saw men wading Bull Run in a long file, every one
carrying a rifle on his shoulder.  In the hot dim night they looked
like lines of Indians advancing through the water to choose an ambush.
They were crossing for half an hour, and then they melted away.  He
could not see one of the figures again, nor did any sound come from them,
but he knew that the riflemen lay there in the bushes, and that many a
man would fall before they waded Bull Run again.

"Do you think the attack is really coming this time?" whispered Langdon.

"I feel sure of it," replied Harry.  "All the scouts have said so and
you may laugh at me, Tom, but I tell you that when the wind blows our
way I feel the dust raised by thirty thousand men marching toward us."

"I'm not laughing at you, Harry.  Sometimes that instinct of yours tells
when things are coming long before you can see or hear 'em.  But while
I'm no such wonder myself I can hear those bullfrogs croaking down there
at the edge of the water.  Think of their cheek, calmly singing their
night songs between two armies of twenty or thirty thousand men each,
who are going to fight tomorrow."

"But it's not their fight," said St. Clair, "and maybe they are croaking
for a lot of us."

"Shut up, you bird of ill omen, you raven, you," said Happy Tom.
"Everything is going to happen for the best, we are going to win the
victory, and we three are going to come out of the battle all right."

St. Clair did not answer him.  His was a serious nature and he foresaw a
great struggle which would waver long in doubt.  Harry had lain down on
his blanket and was seeking sleep again.

"Stop talking," he said to the other two.  "We've got to go to sleep if
it's only for the sake of our nerves.  We must be fresh and steady when
we go into the battle in the morning."

"I suppose you are right," said Happy Tom, "but I find this overtaking
slumber a long chase.  Maybe you can form a habit of sleeping well
before big battles, but I haven't had the chance to do so yet."

Harry did fall asleep after a while, but he awoke before dawn to find
that there was already bustle and movement in the army about him.
Fires were lighted further back, and an early but plentiful breakfast
was cooked.  All were up and ready when the sun rose over the Virginia
fields.

"Another hot day," said Happy Tom.  "See, the sun is as red as fire!
And look how it burns on the water there."

"Yes, hot it will be," Harry said to himself.  They had eaten their
breakfast and lay once more among the trees.  Harry searched with his
eyes the bushes and thickets on the other side for their riflemen,
but most of them were still invisible in the day.  Then the Southern
brigades were ordered to lie down, but after they lay there some time
Harry felt that the film of dust on the edge of the wind was growing
stronger, and presently they saw a great cloud of it rising above hills
and trees and moving toward them.

"They're coming," said St. Clair.  "In less than a half hour they'll be
at the ford."

"But I doubt if they know what is waiting for them," said Harry.

The cloud of dust rapidly came nearer, and now they heard the beat of
horses' feet and the clank of artillery.  Harry began to breathe hard,
and he and the other young officers walked up and down the lines of
their company.  All the Invincibles clearly saw that great plume of dust,
and heard the ominous sounds that came with it.  It was very near now,
but suddenly the fringe of forest on the far side of the river burst
into flame.  The hidden riflemen had opened fire and were burning the
front of the advancing army.

But the Northern men came steadily on, rousing the riflemen out of the
bushes, and then they appeared among the trees on the north side of Bull
Run--a New York brigade led by Tyler.  The moment their faces showed
there was a tremendous discharge from the Southern batteries masked in
the wood.  The crash was appalling, and Harry shut his eyes for a moment,
in horror, as he saw the entire front rank of the Northern force go
down.  Then the Southern sharpshooters in hundreds, who lined the
water's edge, opened with the rifle, and a storm of lead crashed into
the ranks of the hapless New Yorkers.

"Up, Invincibles!" cried Colonel Talbot, and they began to fire, and
load, and fire again into the attacking force which had walked into what
was almost an ambush.

"They'll never reach the ford!" shouted Happy Tom.

"Never!" Harry shouted back.

The Southern generals, already trained in battles, pushed their
advantages.  A great force of Southern sharpshooters crossed the river
and took the Northern brigade in flank.  The New Yorkers, unable to
stand the tremendous artillery and rifle fire in their front, and the
new rifle fire on their side also, broke and retreated.  But another
brigade came up to their relief and they advanced again, sending a
heavy return fire from their rifles, while the artillery on their flank
replied to that of the South.

The combat now became fierce.  The Invincibles in the very thick of it
advanced to the water's edge, and fired as fast as they could load and
reload.  Huge volumes of smoke gathered over both sides of Bull Run,
and men fell fast.  There was also a rain of twigs and boughs as
the bullets and shells cut them through, and the dense, heated air,
shot through with smoke, burned the throats of blue and gray.

But the South had the advantage of position and numbers.  Moreover,
those riflemen on the flanks of the Northern troops burned them
terribly and they were weary, too, with long marching in dust and heat.
As the artillery and rifle fire converged upon them and became heavier
and heavier they were forced to give way.  They yielded ground slowly,
until they were beyond range of the cannon, and then, brushing off the
fierce swarm of sharpshooters on their flank, they retreated all the
way back to the village, whence they had come.

The firing on the Southern side of Bull Run ceased suddenly, and the
smoke began to drift away.  The Invincibles, save those who had fallen
to stay, stood up and shouted.  They had won the greatest victory in the
world, and they flung taunts in the direction of the retreating foe.

"Stop that!" shouted Colonel Talbot, striding up and down the line.
"This is only a beginning.  Wait until we have a real battle."

"This has happened for the best," said Happy Tom, "but I'd like to know
what the colonel calls a real battle.  The fire was so loud I couldn't
hear myself speak, and I know at least a million men were engaged.
Arthur, how can you be cool enough to bathe your face in that water?"

"It's to make it cool," replied St. Clair, who had stooped over Bull Run,
and was laving his face.  "I feel that dust and burned gunpowder are
thick all over me."

He stood up, his face now clean, and began to arrange his uniform.
Then he carefully dusted his coat and trousers.

"Hope you are all ready for another battle, Arthur," said Tom.

"Not yet," replied St. Clair laughing.  "That will do me for quite a
while."

St. Clair had his wish.  The enemy seemed to have enough for the time.
The hot, breathless day passed without any further advance.  Now and
then they heard the Northern bugles, and the scouts reported that the
foe was still gathering heavily not far away, but the Invincibles,
from their camp, saw nothing.

"I suppose the colonel was right," said Happy Tom, "and this must have
been a sort of prologue.  But if the prologue was so hot what's the play
going to be?"

"Something hotter," said Harry.

"A vague but true answer," said Langdon.

Yet the delay was long.  They lay all that day and all that night along
the banks of Bull Run, and a hundred conflicting reports ran up and down
their ranks.  The Northern army would retreat, it would attack within a
few hours; the Southern army would retreat, it would hold its present
position; both sides would receive reinforcements, neither would receive
any fresh troops.  Every statement was immediately denied.

"I refuse to believe anything until it happens," said Harry, when night
came.  "I'm getting hardened to this sort of thing, and as soon as my
time off duty comes I'm going to sleep."

Sleep he did in the shot-torn woods, and it was the heavy sleep of
exhaustion.  Nerves did not trouble him, as he slept without dreams and
rose to another windless, burning day.  The hours dragged on again,
but in the night there was a tremendous shouting.  Johnston, with eight
thousand men, had slipped away from Patterson in the mountains, and the
infantry had come by train directly to the plateau of Manassas, where
they were now leaving the cars and taking their place in the line of
battle.  The artillery and cavalry were coming on behind over the
dirt road.  The Southern generals were already showing the energy and
decision for which they were so remarkable in the first years of the
war.  Johnston was the senior, but since Beauregard had made the
battlefield, he left him in command.

The Invincibles were moved off to the left along Bull Run, and were
posted in front of a stone bridge, where other troops gathered, until
twelve or thirteen thousand men were there.  But Harry and his comrades
were nearest to the bridge, and it seemed to him that the situation was
almost exactly as it had been three nights before.  Again they faced
Bull Run and again they expected an attack in the morning.  There was
no change save the difference between a ford and a bridge.  But the
Invincibles, hardened by the three days of skirmishing and waiting,
took things more easily now.

They lay in the woods near the steep banks, and the batteries commanded
the entrance to the bridge.  The night was once more hot and windless
and they were so quiet that they could hear the murmur of the waters.
Far across Bull Run they saw dim lights moving, and they knew that they
were those of the Northern army.

"I think things have changed a lot in the last three days," said Harry.
"Then the Yankees didn't know much about us.  They charged almost
blindfolded into our ambush.  Now we don't know much about them.
We don't know by any means where the attack is coming.  It is they who
are keeping us guessing."

"But there are only two fords and two bridges across Bull Run," said
Langdon, "and they have got to choose one out of the lot."

"Which means that we've got to accumulate our forces at some one of four
places, one guess out of four."

Harry did not speak at all in a tone of discouragement, but his
intelligent mind saw that the Northern leaders had profited by their
mistakes and that the Southern general did not really know where the
great impact would come.  The Northern scouts and skirmishers swarmed on
the other side of Bull Run, and even in the darkness this cloud of wasps
was so dense that Beauregard's own scouts could not get beyond them and
tell what the greater mass behind was doing.  Harry was summoned at
midnight by Colonel Talbot.  Behind a clump of trees some distance back
of the bridge, Beauregard, Johnston, Evans, who was in direct command at
the ford, Early, and several other important officers were in anxious
consultation.  Colonel Talbot told Harry that he would be wanted
presently as a messenger, and he stood on one side while the others
talked.  It was then that he first heard Jubal Early swear with a
richness, a spontaneity and an unction that raised it almost to the
dignity of a rite.

Harry gathered that they could not agree as to the point at which the
Northern attack would be delivered, but the balance of opinion inclined
to the bridge, before which the command of Evans was encamped.  Hence he
was sent farther down the stream, with a message for a North Carolina
regiment to move up and join Evans.

The regiment lay about a mile away, but Harry walked almost the whole
distance among sleeping men.  They lay on the grass by thousands,
and exhausted by the movement and marching of recent days they slept
heavily.  In the moonlight they looked as if they were dead.  It was so
quiet now that some night birds in the trees uttered strange moaning
cries.  But far across Bull Run lights still moved and Harry had no
doubt that the great battle, delayed so long, was really coming in the
morning.

The North Carolina regiment rose sleepily and marched with him to the
bridge, where it was incorporated into the force of Evans.  Beauregard,
Johnston and Early had gone to other points, and Harry knew that
they were still anxious and of divided opinions.  Colonel Talbot and
Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire, to whom he had to report, and who moved
their own regiment down near Evans, did not conceal the fact from him.

"Harry," said the colonel, "we're all sure that we'll have to fight on
the morrow, and it looks as if the battle would come in the greatest
weight here at the bridge, but the Invincibles must be prepared for
anything.  You lads are fit and trim, and I hope that all of you will
do your duty tomorrow.  Remember that we have brave foes before us, and
I know most of their officers.  All who are of our age have been the
comrades of Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire and myself."

"It is true, and it is a melancholy phase of this war," said Hector
St. Hilaire.

They walked away together and Harry rejoined those of his own age near
the banks of Bull Run.  But Langdon and St. Clair were sound asleep on
their blankets, and so were all the rest of the Invincibles, save those
who had been posted as sentinels.  But Harry did not sleep that night.
It was past midnight now, but he was never more awake in his life,
and he felt that he must watch until day.

He had no duties to do, and he sat down with his back to a tree and
waited.  Far in his front, three or four miles, perhaps, he thought he
saw lights signaling to each other, but he had no idea what they meant,
and he watched them merely with an idle curiosity.  Once he thought he
heard the distant call of a trumpet, but he was not sure.  Woods and
fields were flooded with the brightness of moon and stars, but if
anything was passing on the other side of Bull Run, it was too well
hidden for him to see it.  His senses were soothed and he sank into a
state of peace and rest.  In reality it was a physical relaxation coming
after so much tension and activity, and the bodily ease became mental
also.

Resting thus, motionless against the trunk of the tree, time passed
easily for him.  The warm air of the night blew now and then against his
face and only soothed him to deeper rest.  The last light far across
Bull Run went out and the darker hours came.  Nothing stirred now in the
woods until the hot dawn came again, and the brazen sun leaped up in the
sky.



CHAPTER XVI

BULL RUN


Harry rose to his feet and shook St. Clair and Langdon.

"Up, boys!" he said.  "The enemy will soon be here.  I can see their
bayonets glittering on the hills."

The Invincibles sprang to their feet almost as one man, and soon all the
troops of Evans were up and humming like bees.  Food and coffee were
served to them hastily, but, before the last cup was thrown down,
a heavy crash came from one of the hills beyond Bull Run, and a shell,
screaming over their heads, burst beyond them.  It was quickly followed
by another, and then the round shot and shells came in dozens from
batteries which had been posted well in the night.

The Southern batteries replied with all their might and the riflemen
supported them, sending the bullets in sheets across Bull Run.  The
battle flamed in fifteen minutes into extraordinary violence.  Harry had
never before heard such a continuous and terrific thunder.  It seemed
that the drums of his ears would be smashed in, but over his head he
heard the continuous hissing and whirring of steel and lead.  The
Northern riflemen were at work, too, and it was fortunate for the
Invincibles that they were able to lie down, as they poured their fire
into the bushes and woods on the opposite bank.

The volume of smoke was so great that they could no longer see the
position of the enemy, but Harry believed that so much metal must do
great damage.  Although he was a lieutenant he had snatched up a rifle
dropped by some fallen soldier, and he loaded and fired it so often that
the barrel grew hot to his hand.  Lying so near the river, most of the
hostile fire went over the heads of the Invincibles, but now and then a
shell or a cluster of bullets struck among them, and Harry heard groans.
But he quickly forgot these sounds as he watched the clouds of smoke and
the blaze of fire on the other side of Bull Run.

"They are not trying to force the passage of the bridge!  Everything is
for the best!" shouted Langdon.

"No, they dare not," shouted St. Clair in reply.  "No column could live
on that bridge in face of our fire."

It seemed strange to Harry that the Northern troops made no attempt to
cross.  Why did all this tremendous fire go on so long, and yet not a
foe set foot upon the bridge?  It seemed to him that it had endured for
hours.  The sun was rising higher and higher and the day was growing
hotter and hotter.  It lay with the North to make the first movement to
cross Bull Run, and yet no attempt was made.

Colonel Talbot came repeatedly along the line of the Invincibles,
and Harry saw that he was growing uneasy.  Such a great volume of fire,
without any effort to take advantage of it, made the veteran suspicious.
He knew that those old comrades of his on the other side of Bull Run
would not waste their metal in a mere cannonade and long range rifle
fire.  There must be something behind it.  Presently, with the consent
of the commander, he drew the Invincibles back from the river, where
they were permitted to cease firing, and to rest for a while on their
arms.

But as they drew long breaths and tried to clear the smoke from their
throats, a rumor ran down the lines.  The attack at the bridge was but a
feint.  Only a minor portion of the hostile army was there.  The greater
mass had gone on and had already crossed the river in face of the
weak left flank of the Southern army.  Beauregard had been outwitted.
The Yankees were now in great force on his own side of Bull Run, and it
would be a pitched battle, face to face.

The whole line of the Invincibles quivered with excitement, and then
Harry saw that the rumor was true, or that their commander at least
believed it to be so.  The firing stopped entirely and the bugles blew
the retreat.  All the brigades gathered themselves up and, wild with
anger and chagrin, slowly withdrew.

"Why are we retreating?" exclaimed Langdon, angrily.  "Not a Yankee set
his foot on the bridge!  We're not whipped!"

"No," said Harry, "we're not whipped, but if we don't retreat we will
be.  If fifteen or twenty thousand Yankees struck us on the flank while
those fellows are still in front everything would go."

These were young troops, who considered a retreat equivalent to a
beating, and fierce murmurs ran along the line.  But the officers paid
no attention, marching them steadily on, while the artillery rumbled
by their side.  Both to right and left they heard the sound of firing,
and they saw the smoke floating against both horizons, but they paid
little attention to it.  They were wondering what was in store for them.

"Cheer up, you lads!" cried Colonel Talbot.  "You'll get all the
fighting you can stand, and it won't be long in coming, either."

They marched only half an hour and then the troops were drawn up on a
hill, where the officers rapidly formed them into position.  It was none
too soon.  A long blue line, bristling with cannon on either flank,
appeared across the fields.  It was Burnside with the bulk of the
Northern army moving down upon them.  Harry was standing beside Colonel
Talbot, ready to carry his orders, and he heard the veteran say, between
his teeth:

"The Yankees have fooled us, and this is the great battle at last."

The two forces looked at each other for a few moments.  Elsewhere great
guns and rifles were already at work, but the sounds came distantly.
On the hill and in the fields there was silence, save for the steady
tramp of the advancing Northern troops.  Then from the rear of the
marching lines suddenly came a burst of martial music.  The Northern
bands, by a queer inversion, were playing Dixie:

          "In Dixie's land
           I'll take my stand,
           To live and die for Dixie.
           Look away!  Look away!
           Down South in Dixie."

Harry's feet beat to the tune, the wild and thrilling air played for the
first time to troops going into battle.

"We must answer that," he said to St. Clair.

"Here comes the answer," said St. Clair, and the Southern bands began
to play "The Girl I Left Behind Me."  The music entered Harry's veins.
He could not look without a quiver upon the great mass of men bearing
down upon them, but the strains of fife and drum put courage in him and
told him to stand fast.  He saw the face of Colonel Talbot grow darker
and darker, and he had enough experience himself to know that the odds
were heavily against them.

The intense burning sun poured down a flood of light, lighting up the
opposing ranks of blue and gray, and gleaming along swords and bayonets.
Nearer and nearer came the piercing notes of Dixie.

"They march well," murmured Colonel Talbot, "and they will fight well,
too."

He did not know that McDowell himself, the Northern commander, was
now before them, driving on his men, but he did know that the courage
and skill of his old comrades were for the present in the ascendant.
Burnside was at the head of the division and it seemed long enough to
wrap the whole Southern command in its folds and crush it.

Scattered rifle shots were heard on either flank, and the young
Invincibles began to breathe heavily.  Millions of black specks danced
before them in the hot sunshine, and their nervous ears magnified every
sound tenfold.

"I wish that tune the Yankees are playing was ours," said Tom Langdon.
"I think I could fight battles by it."

"Then we'll have to capture it," said Harry.

Now the time for talking ceased.  The rifle fire on the flanks was
rising to a steady rattle, and then came the heavy boom of the cannon
on either side.  Once more the air was filled with the shriek of shells
and the whistling of rifle bullets.  Men were falling fast, and through
the rising clouds of smoke Harry saw the blue lines still coming on.
It seemed to him that they would be overwhelmed, trampled under foot,
routed, but he heard Colonel Talbot shouting:

"Steady, Invincibles!  Steady!"

And Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire, walking up and down the lines,
also uttered the same shout.  But the blue line never ceased coming.
Harry could see the faces dark with sweat and dust and powder still
pressing on.  It was well for the Southerners that nearly all of them
had been trained in the use of the rifle, and it was well for them, too,
that most of their officers were men of skill and experience.  Recruits,
they stood fast nevertheless and their rifles sent the bullets in an
unceasing bitter hail straight into the advancing ranks of blue.
There was no sound from the bands now.  If they were playing somewhere
in the rear no one heard.  The fire of the cannon and rifles was a
steady roll, louder than thunder and more awful.

The Northern troops hesitated at last in face of such a resolute stand
and such accurate firing.  Then they retreated a little and a shout of
triumph came from the Southern lines, but the respite was only for a
moment.  The men in blue came on again, walking over their dead and past
their wounded.

"If they keep pressing in, and it looks as if they would, they will
crush us," murmured Colonel Talbot, but he did not let the Invincibles
hear him say it.  He encouraged them with voice and example, and they
bent forward somewhat to meet the second charge of the Northern army,
which was now coming.  The smoke lifted a little and Harry saw the green
fields and the white house of the Widow Henry standing almost in the
middle of the battlefield, but unharmed.  Then his eyes came back to the
hostile line, which, torn by shot and shell, had closed up, nevertheless,
and was advancing again in overwhelming force.

Harry now had a sudden horrible fear that they would be trodden under
foot.  He looked at St. Clair and saw that his face was ghastly.
Langdon had long since ceased to smile or utter words of happy
philosophy.

"Open up and let the guns through!" some one suddenly cried, and a wild
cheer of relief burst from the Invincibles as they made a path.  The
valiant Bee and Bartow, rushing to the sound of the great firing,
had come with nearly three thousand men and a whole battery.  Never
were men more welcome.  They formed instantly along the Southern front,
and the battery opened at once with all its guns, while the three
thousand men sent a new fire into the Northern ranks.  Yet the Northern
charge still came.  McDowell, Burnside, and the others were pressing it
home, seeking to drive the Southern army from its hill, while they were
yet able to bring forces largely superior to bear upon it.

The thunder and crash of the terrible conflict rolled over all the
hills and fields for miles.  It told the other forces of either army
that here was the center of the battle, and here was its crisis.
The sounds reached an extraordinary young-old man, bearded and awkward,
often laughed at, but never to be laughed at again, one of the most
wonderful soldiers the world has ever produced, and instantly gathering
up his troops he rushed them toward the very heart of the combat.
Stonewall Jackson was about to receive his famous nickname.

Jackson's burning eyes swept proudly over the ranks of his tall
Virginians, who mourned every second they lost from the battle.  An
officer retreating with his battery glanced at him, opened his mouth to
speak, but closed it again without saying a word, and infused with new
hope, turned his guns afresh toward the enemy.  Already men were feeling
the magnetic current of energy and resolution that flowed from Jackson
like water from a fountain.

A message from Colonel Talbot, which he was to deliver to Jackson
himself, sent Harry to the rear.  He rode a borrowed horse and he
galloped rapidly until he saw a long line of men marching forward at
a swift but steady pace.  At their head rode a man on a sorrel horse.
His shoulders were stooped a little, and he leaned forward in the saddle,
gazing intently at the vast bank of smoke and flame before him.  Harry
noticed that the hands upon the bridle reins did not twitch nor did the
horseman seem at all excited.  Only his burning eyes showed that every
faculty was concentrated upon the task.  Harry was conscious even then
that he was in the presence of General Jackson.

The boy delivered his message.  Jackson received it without comment,
never taking his eyes from the battle, which was now raging so fiercely
in front of them.  Behind came his great brigade of Virginians, the
smoke and flame of the battle entering their blood and making their
hearts pound fast as they moved forward with increasing speed.

Harry rode back with the young officers of his staff, and now they
saw men dash out of the smoke and run toward them.  They cried that
everything was lost.  The lip of Jackson curled in contempt.  The long
line of his Virginians stopped the fugitives and drove them back to the
battle.  It was evident to Harry, young as he was, that Jackson would
be just in time.

Then they saw a battery galloping from that bank of smoke and flame, and,
its officer swearing violently, exclaimed that he had been left without
support.  The stern face and somber eyes of Jackson were turned upon him.

"Unlimber your guns at once," he said.  "Here is your support."

Then the valiant Bee himself came, covered with dust, his clothes torn
by bullets, his horse in a white lather.  He, too, turned to that stern
brown figure, as unflinching as death itself, and he cried that the
enemy in overwhelming numbers were beating them back.

"Then," said Jackson, "we'll close up and give them the bayonet."

His teeth shut down like a vise.  Again the electric current leaped
forth and sparkled through the veins of Bee, who turned and rode back
into the Southern throng, the Virginians following swiftly.  Then
Jackson looked over the field with the eye and mind of genius, the eye
that is able to see and the mind that is able to understand amid all
the thunder and confusion and excitement of battle.

He saw a stretch of pines on the edge of the hill near the Henry house.
He quickly marched his troops among the trees, covering their front with
six cannon, while the great horseman, Stuart, plumed and eager, formed
his cavalry upon the left.  Harry felt instinctively that the battle
was about to be restored for the time at least, and he turned back to
Colonel Talbot and the Invincibles.  A shell burst near him.  A piece
struck his horse in the chest, and Harry felt the animal quiver under
him.  Then the horse uttered a terrible neighing cry, but Harry, alert
and agile, sprang clear, and ran back to his own command.

On the other side of Bull Run was the Northern command of Tyler, which
had been rebuffed so fiercely three days before.  It, too, heard the
roar and crash of the battle, and sought a way across Bull Run, but for
a time could find none.  An officer named Sherman, also destined for a
mighty fame, saw a Confederate trooper riding across the river further
down, and instantly the whole command charged at the ford.  It was
defended by only two hundred Southern skirmishers whom they brushed out
of the way.  They were across in a few minutes, and then they advanced
on a run to swell McDowell's army.  The forces on both sides were
increasing and the battle was rising rapidly in volume.  But in the face
of repeated and furious attacks the Southern troops held fast to the
little plateau.  Young's Branch flowed on one side of it and protected
them in a measure; but only the indomitable spirit of Jackson and Evans,
of Bee and Bartow, and others kept them in line against those charges
which threatened to shiver them to pieces.

"Look!" cried Bee to some of his men who were wavering.  "Look at
Jackson, standing there like a stone wall!"

The men ceased to waver and settled themselves anew for a fresh attack.

But in spite of everything the Northern army was gaining ground.
Sherman at the very head of the fresh forces that had crossed Bull Run
hurled himself upon the Southern army, his main attack falling directly
upon the Invincibles.  The young recruits reeled, but Colonel Talbot and
Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire still ran up and down the lines begging
them to stand.  They took fresh breath and planted their feet deep once
more.  Harry raised his rifle and took aim at a flitting figure in the
smoke.  Then he dropped the muzzle.  Either it was reality or a powerful
trick of the fancy.  It was his own cousin, Dick Mason, but the smoke
closed in again, and he did not see the face.

The rush of Sherman was met and repelled.  Tie drew back only to come
again, and along the whole line the battle closed in once more, fiercer
and more deadly than ever.  Upon all the combatants beat the fierce sun
of July, and clouds of dust rose to mingle with the smoke of cannon and
rifles.

The advantage now lay distinctly with the Northern army, won by its
clever passage of Bull Run and surprise.  But the courage and tenacity
of the Southern troops averted defeat and rout in detail.  Jackson,
in his strong position near the Henry house, in the cellars of which
women were hiding, refused to give an inch of ground.  Beauregard,
called by the cannon, arrived upon the field only an hour before noon,
meeting on the way many fugitives, whom he and his officers drove
back into the battle.  Hampton's South Carolina Legion, which reached
Richmond only that morning, came by train and landed directly upon the
battlefield about noon.  In five minutes it was in the thick of the
battle, and it alone stemmed a terrific rush of Sherman, when all others
gave way.

Noon had passed and the heart of McDowell swelled with exultation.
The Northern troops were still gaining ground, and at many points the
Southern line was crushed.  Some of the recruits in gray, their nerves
shaken horribly, were beginning to run.  But fresh troops coming up
met them and turned them back to the field.  Beauregard and Johnston,
the two senior generals, both experienced and calm, were reforming their
ranks, seizing new and strong positions, and hurrying up every portion
of their force.  Johnston himself, after the first rally, hurried back
for fresh regiments, while Jackson's men not only held their ground but
began to drive the Northern troops before them.

The Invincibles had fallen back somewhat, leaving many dead behind them.
Many more were wounded.  Harry had received two bullets through his
clothing, and St. Clair was nicked on the wrist.  Colonel Talbot and
Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire were still unharmed, but a deep gloom had
settled over the Invincibles.  They had not been beaten, but certainly
they were not winning.  Their ranks were seamed and rent.  From the
place where they now stood they could see the place where they formerly
stood, but Northern troops occupied it now.  Tears ran down the faces
of some of the youngest, streaking the dust and powder into hideous,
grinning masks.

Harry threw himself upon the ground and lay there for a few moments,
panting.  He choked with heat and thirst, and his heart seemed to have
swollen so much within him that it would be a relief to have it burst.
His eyes burned with the dust and smoke, and all about him was a fearful
reek.  He could see from where he lay most of the battlefield.  He saw
the Northern batteries fire, move forward, and then fire again.  He saw
the Northern infantry creeping up, ever creeping, and far behind he
beheld the flags of fresh regiments coming to their aid.  The tears
sprang to his eyes.  It seemed in very truth that all was lost.  In
another part of the field the men in blue had seized the Robinson house,
and from points near it their artillery was searching the Southern
ranks.  A sudden grim humor seized the boy.

"Tom," he shouted to Langdon, "what was that you said about sleeping in
the White House at Washington with your boots on?"

"I said it," Langdon shouted back, "but I guess it's all off!  For God's
sake, Harry, give me a drink of water!  I'll give anybody a million
dollars and a half dozen states for a single drink!"

A soldier handed him a canteen, and he drank from it.  The water was
warm, but it was nectar, and when he handed it back, he said:

"I don't know you and you don't know me, but if I could I'd give you a
whole lake in return for this.  Harry, what are our chances?"

"I don't know.  We've lost one battle, but we may have time to win
another.  Jackson and those Virginians of his seem able to stand
anything.  Up, boys, the battle is on us again!"

The charge swept almost to their feet, but it was driven back, and then
came a momentary lull, not a cessation of the battle, but merely a
sinking, as if the combatants were gathering themselves afresh for a new
and greater effort.  It was two o'clock in the afternoon, and the fierce
July sun was at its zenith, pouring its burning rays upon both armies,
alike upon the living and upon the dead who were now so numerous.

The lull was most welcome to the men in gray.  Some fresh regiments sent
by Johnston had come already, and they hoped for more, but whether they
came or not, the army must stand.  The brigades were massed heavily
around the Henry house with that of Jackson standing stern and
indomitable, the strongest wall against the foe.  His fame and his
spirit were spreading fast over the field.

The lull was brief, the whole Northern army, its lines reformed, swept
forward in a half curve, and the Southern army sent forth a stream of
shells and bullets to meet it.  The brigades of Jackson and Sherman,
indomitable foes, met face to face and swept back and forth over the
ground, which was littered with their fallen.  Everywhere the battle
assumed a closer and fiercer phase.  Hampton, who had come just in time
with his guns, went down wounded badly.  Beauregard himself was wounded
slightly, and so was Jackson, hit in the hand.  Many distinguished
officers were killed.

The whole Northern army was driven back four times, and it came a fifth
time to be repulsed once more.  In the very height of the struggle Harry
caught a glimpse in front of them of a long horizontal line of red,
like a gleaming ribbon.

"It's those Zouaves!" cried Langdon.  "Shoot their pants!"

He did not mean it as a jest.  The words just jumped out, and true to
their meaning the Invincibles fired straight at that long line of red,
and then reloading fired again.  The Zouaves were cut to pieces, the
field was strewed with their brilliant uniforms.  A few officers tried
to bring on the scattered remnants, but two regiments of regulars,
sweeping in between and bearing down on the Invincibles, saved them from
extermination.

The Invincibles would have suffered the fate they had dealt out to the
Zouaves, but fresh regiments came to their help and the regulars were
driven back.  Sherman and Jackson were still fighting face to face,
and Sherman was unable to advance.  Howard hurled a fresh force on the
men in gray.  Bee and Bartow, who had done such great deeds earlier
in the day, were both killed.  A Northern force under Heintzelman,
converging for a flank attack, was set upon and routed by the
Southerners, who put them all to flight, captured three guns and took
the Robinson house.

Fortune, nevertheless, still seemed to favor the North.  The Southerners
had barely held their positions around the Henry house.  Most of their
cannon were dismounted.  Hundreds had dropped from exhaustion.  Some had
died from heat and excessive exertion.  The mortality among the officers
was frightful.  There were few hopeful hearts in the Southern army.

It was now three o'clock in the afternoon and Beauregard, through his
glasses, saw a great column of dust rising above the tops of the trees.
His experience told him that it must be made by marching troops, but
what troops were they, Northern or Southern?  In an agony of suspense
he appealed to the generals around him, but they could tell nothing.
He sent off aides at a gallop to see, but meanwhile he and his generals
could only wait, while the column of dust grew broader and broader and
higher and higher.  His heart sank like a plummet in a pool.  The cloud
was on the Federal flank and everything indicated that it was the army
of Patterson, marching from the Valley of Virginia.

Harry and his comrades had also seen the dust, and they regarded it
anxiously.  They knew as well as any general present that their fate lay
within that cloud.

"It's coming fast, and it's growing faster," said Harry.  "I've got so
used to the roar of this battle that it seems to me alien sounds are
detached from it, and are heard easily.  I can hear the rumble of cannon
wheels in that cloud."

"Then tell us, Harry," said Langdon, "is it a Northern rumble or a
Southern rumble that you hear?"

Harry laughed.

"I'll admit it's a good deal of a fancy," he said.

Arthur St. Clair suddenly leaped high in the air, and uttered at the
very top of his voice the wild note of the famous rebel yell.

"Look at the flags aloft in that cloud of dust!  It's the Star and Bars!
God bless the Bonnie Blue Flag!  They are our own men coming, and coming
in time!"

Now the battle flags appeared clearly through the dust, and the great
rebel yell, swelling and triumphant, swept the whole Southern line.
It was the remainder of Johnston's Army of the Shenandoah.  It had
slipped away from Patterson, and all through the burning day it had been
marching steadily toward the battlefield, drummed on by the thudding
guns.  Johnston, the silent and alert, was himself with them now,
and aflame with zeal they were advancing on the run straight for the
heart of the Northern army.

Kirby Smith, one of Harry's own Kentucky generals, was in the very van
of the relieving force.  A man after Stonewall Jackson's own soul,
he rushed forward with the leading regiments and they hurled themselves
bodily upon the Northern flank.

The impact was terrible.  Smith fell wounded, but his men rushed on and
the men behind also threw themselves into the battle.  Almost at the
same instant Jubal Early, who had made a circuit with a strong force,
hurled it upon the side of the Northern army.  The brave troops in blue
were exhausted by so many hours of fierce fighting and fierce heat.
Their whole line broke and began to fall back.  The Southern generals
around the Henry house saw it and exulted.  Swift orders were sent and
the bugles blew the charge for the men who had stood so many long and
bitter hours on the defense.

"Now, Invincibles, now!" cried Colonel Leonidas Talbot.  "Charge home,
just once, my boys, and the victory is ours!"

Covered with dust and grime, worn and bleeding with many wounds, but
every heart beating triumphantly, what was left of the Invincibles rose
up and followed their leader.  Harry was conscious of a flame almost
in his face and of whirling clouds of smoke and dust.  Then the entire
Southern army burst upon the confused Northern force and shattered it
so completely that it fell to pieces.

The bravest battle ever fought by men, who, with few exceptions, had not
smelled the powder of war before, was lost and won.

As the Southern cannon and rifles beat upon them, the Northern army,
save for the regulars and the cavalry, dissolved.  The generals could
not stem the flood.  They rushed forward in confused masses, seeking
only to save themselves.  Whole regiments dashed into the fords of Bull
Run and emerged dripping on the other side.  A bridge was covered with
spectators come out from Washington to see the victory, many of them
bringing with them baskets of lunch.  Some were Members of Congress,
but all joined in the panic and flight, carrying to the capital many
untrue stories of disaster.

A huge mass of fleeing men emerged upon the Warrenton turnpike, throwing
away their weapons and ammunition that they might run the faster.
It was panic pure and simple, but panic for the day only.  For hours
they had fought as bravely as the veterans of twenty battles, but now,
with weakened nerves, they thought that an overwhelming force was upon
them.  Every shell that the Southern guns sent among them urged them to
greater speed.  The cavalry and little force of regulars covered the
rear, and with firm and unbroken ranks retreated slowly, ready to face
the enemy if he tried pursuit.

But the men in gray made no real pursuit.  They were so worn that they
could not follow, and they yet scarcely believed in the magnitude of
their own victory, snatched from the very jaws of defeat.  Twenty-eight
Northern cannon and ten flags were in their hands, but thousands of dead
and wounded lay upon the field, and night was at hand again, close and
hot.

Harry turned back to the little plateau where those that were left of
the Invincibles were already kindling their cooking fires.  He looked
for his two comrades and recognized them both under their masks of dust
and powder.

"Are you hurt, Tom?" he said to Langdon.

"No, and I'm going to sleep in the White House at Washington after all."

"And you, Arthur?"

"There's a red line across my wrist, where a bullet passed, but it's
nothing.  Listen, what do you think of that, boys?"

A Southern band had gathered in the edge of the wood and was playing
a wild thrilling air, the words of which meant nothing, but the tune
everything:

          "In Dixie's land
           I'll take my stand,
           To live and die for Dixie.
           Look away!  Look away!
           Look away down South in Dixie."

"So we have taken their tune from them and made it ours!" St. Clair
exclaimed jubilantly.  "After all, it really belonged to us!  We'll play
it through the streets of Washington."

But Colonel Leonidas Talbot, who stood close by, raised his hand
warningly.

"Boys," he said, "this is only the beginning."





Appendix: Transcription notes:

This etext was transcribed from a volume printed in April, 1964
(Twenty-eighth Printing)


The following modifications were applied while transcribing the
printed book to e-text:

 chapter 1:
  - Fixed typo ("hestitated"), page 22, para 2
  - Fixed typo (changed "this father" to "his father"), page 23,
    first line of para 5

 chapter 2:
  - Changed "t" to upper-case in sentence "to bed!" on page 40, para 3

 chapter 3:
  - Removed an extraneous quotation mark on page 62, at the end of para 4
  - Fixed typo ("extaordinary"), page 63, para 2
  - Fixed typo ("fews"), page 65, para 5

 chapter 4:
  - Fixed typo ("feeliing"), page 81, para 6

 chapter 6:
  - Added a missing comma on page 111, third sentence
  - Fixed typo ("tomorow"), page 119, para 7

 chapter 9:
  - Fixed typo ("tomorow"), page 187, para 3

 chapter 10:
  - Page 197, second para: replaced a comma with a period preceding "Yet"
    (However, It is unclear whether the author intended a period, or
     whether instead the "yet" should be lower case - either would serve
     equally well.)
  - Fixed typo (changed "achievment" to "achievement"), page 208, para 8

 chapter 11:
  - Fixed typo ("thy're") on page 234, para 4

 chapter 12:
  - Page 241, para 1: changed "four o'clock this morning" to "four
    o'clock this afternoon" - the content of this page and the following
    pages clearly indicates that the march started in mid-day,
    not before dawn

 chapter 13:
  - Fixed typo ("persausive") on page 282, para 4
  - Fixed typo ("aand") on page 284, para 4

 chapter 14:
  - Fixed typo (changed "hid" to "hide"), page 289, para 1
  - Fixed typo ("batallions"), page 292, para 1
  - Fixed typo ("aand"), page 293, para 5
  - Added missing close-quotation-marks to para 7 on page 295
  - Added missing close-quotation-marks to para 8 on page 296
  - Fixed typo ("paseed"), page 299, para 1

 chapter 16:
  - Removed a duplicate "to" on page 330, para 3

 Limitations imposed by converting to plain ASCII:

  - The printed book presented the names of newspapers and ships
    in italics, but italics are not available in plain ASCII

    Chapter 1, page 9: Pendleton News, News, Louisville Journal, News
     page 10: News
    Chapter 3, page 71: Mercury, Star of the West
    Chapter 4, everywhere: Star of the West
    Chapter 5, page 96: Mercury, Star of the West
    Chapter 6 and 7: Baltic
    Chapter 12: Star of the West

  - The word "marquee" in chapter 15 was presented in the printed
    book with an accented "e"


I did not modify:

 - The following sentence in chapter 1 does not seem quite right,
   but I am not sure how to change it, if I would change it:

    George Kenton, having inherited much land in Kentucky, and two or
    three plantations further south had added to his property by good
    management.

 - There are a number of instances where the use of the comma in the
   printed book seems to me inappropriate, mainly in terms of commas
   inserted where I would not insert them, and also sometimes commas
   lacking where I would provide them.  However, I have adhered to
   the punctuation as printed (except for obvious printing errors,
   which are noted above).

   For example:

    His abounding youth made him consider as weak and unworthy, an
    emotion which a man would merely have reckoned as natural.

    Forty or fifty thousand, men, women and children, were looking on,
    but nothing more than a murmur ran through the great mass.

    The sea itself, is against them.

    Two heavier crashes showed that the cannon were also coming into
    play, and one shell striking within the fort, exploded, wounding
    a half dozen men.

    The belt of forest into which he had ridden, ran along the crest
    of a hill, where the soil evidently had been considered too thin
    for profitable cultivation.

 - Each section of verse is formatted to appear similar to its
   presentation in the printed book.  Consequently: some verse is
   indented more than others, some is left-aligned, some is
   staggered on the left margin, some is center-aligned.

 - The author sometimes uses a technique whereby a paragraph introducing
   a quotation ends with a colon, with the quotation following as the
   next paragraph.
















Produced by Col Choat.





The Getting of Wisdom by Henry Handel Richardson



TO MY
UNNAMED
LITTLE COLLABORATOR



Wisdom is the principal thing;
therefore get wisdom: and with
all thy getting get understanding.

Proverbs, iv, 7



I.



The four children were lying on the grass.

". . . and the Prince went further and further into the forest," said
the elder girl, "till he came to a beautiful glade--a glade, you know,
is a place in the forest that is open and green and lovely. And there he
saw a lady, a beautiful lady, in a long white dress that hung down to
her ankles, with a golden belt and a golden crown. She was lying on the
sward--a sward, you know, is grass as smooth as velvet, just like green
velvet--and the Prince saw the marks of travel on her garments. The
bottom of the lovely silk dress was all dirty----"

"Wondrous Fair, if you don't mind you'll make that sheet dirty, too,"
said Pin.

"Shut up, will you!" answered her sister who, carried away by her
narrative, had approached her boots to some linen that was bleaching.

"Yes, but you know Sarah'll be awfly cross if she has to wash it again,"
said Pin, who was practical.

"You'll put me out altogether," cried Laura angrily.--"Well, as I said,
the edge of her robe was all muddy--no, I don't think I will say that;
it sounds prettier if it's clean. So it hung in long, straight beautiful
folds to her ankles, and the Prince saw two little feet in golden
sandals peeping out from under the hem of the silken gown, and----"

"But what about the marks of travel?" asked Leppie.

"Donkey! haven't I said they weren't there? If I say they weren't,
then they weren't. She hadn't travelled at all."

"Oh, parrakeets!" cried little Frank.

Four pairs of eyes went up to the bright green flock that was passing
over the garden.

"Now you've all interrupted, and I shan't tell any more," said Laura in
a proud voice.

"Oh, yes, please do, Wondrous Fair! Tell what happened next," begged Pin
and Leppie.

"No, not another word. You can only think of sheets and parrakeets."

"Please, Wondrous Fair," begged little Frank.

"No, I can't now.--Another thing: I don't mind if you call me Laura
to-day, as it's the last day."

She lay back on the grass, her hands clasped under her head. A voice was
heard, loud, imperative.

"Laura, I want you. Come here."

"That's mother calling," said Pin.

Laura kicked her heels. The two little boys laughed approval.

"Go on, Laura," coaxed Pin. "Mother'll be angry. I'll come, too."

Laura raised herself with a grumble. "It's to try on that horrid dress."

In very fact Mother was standing, already somewhat impatient, with the
dress in her hand. Laura wriggled out of the one she had on, and stood
stiffly and ungraciously, with her arms held like pokers from her sides,
while Mother on her knees arranged the length.

"Don't put on a face like that, miss!" she said sharply on seeing
Laura's air. "Do you think I'm making it for my own pleasure?" She
had sewn at it all day, and was hot and tired.

"It's too short," said Laura, looking down.

"It's nothing of the kind," said Mother, with her mouth full of pins.

"It is, it's much too short."

Mother gave her a slight shake. "Don't you contradict ME! Do you want to
tell me I don't know what length you're to wear your dresses?"

"I won't wear it at all if you don't make it longer," said Laura
defiantly.

Pin's chubby, featureless little face lengthened with apprehension.

"Do let her have it just a tiny bit longer, mother dear, dear!" she
pleaded.

"Now, Pin, what have you got to do with it I'd like to know!" said
Mother, on the verge of losing her temper over the back folds, which
WOULD not hang.

"I'm going to school to-morrow, and it's a shame," said Laura in the
low, passionate tone that never failed to exasperate Mother, so
different was it from her own hearty fashion of venting displeasure. Pin
began to sniff, in sheer nervous anxiety.

"Very well then, I won't do another stitch to it!" and Mother, now angry
in earnest, got up and bounced out of the room.

"Laura, how can you?" said Pin, dissolving. "It's only you who make her
so cross."

"I don't care," said Laura rebelliously, though she was not far off
tears herself. "It IS a shame. All the other girls will have dresses down
to the tops of their boots, and they'll laugh at me, and call me a [P.4]
baby;" and touched by the thought of what lay before her, she, too,
began to sniffle. She did not fail, however, to roll the dress up and to
throw it unto a corner of the room. She also kicked the ewer, which fell
over and flooded the floor. Pin cried more loudly, and ran to fetch
Sarah.

Laura returned to the garden. The two little boys came up to her; but
she waved them back.

"Let me alone, children. I want to think."

She stood in a becoming attitude by the garden-gate, her brothers
hovering in the background.--Then Mother called once more.

"Laura, where are you?"

"Here, mother. What is it?"

"Did you knock this jug over or did Pin?"

"I did, mother."

"Did you do it on purpose?"

"Yes."

"Come here to me."

She went, with lagging steps. But Mother's anger had passed: she was at
work on the dress again, and by squinting her eyes Laura could see that
a piece was being added to the skirt. She was penitent at once; and when
Mother in a sorry voice said: "I'm ashamed of you, Laura. And on your
last day, too," her throat grew narrow.

"I didn't mean it, mother."

"If only you would ask properly for things, you would get them."

Laura knew this; knew indeed that, did she coax, Mother could refuse her
nothing. But coaxing came hard to her; something within her forbade it.
Sarah called her "high-stomached", to the delight of the other
children and her own indignation; she had explained to them again and
again what Sarah really meant.

On leaving the house she went straight to the flower-beds: she would
give Mother, who liked flowers very well but had no time to gather them,
a bouquet the size of a cabbage. Pin and the boys were summoned to help
her, and when their hands were full, Laura led the way to a secluded
part of the garden on the farther side of the detached brick kitchen. In
this strip, which was filled with greenery, little sun fell: two thick
fir trees and a monstrous blue-gum stood there; high bushes screened the
fence; jessamine climbed the wall of the house and encircled the bedroom
windows; and on the damp and shady ground only violets grew. Yet, with
the love children bear to the limited and compact, the four had chosen
their own little plots here rather than in the big garden at the back of
the house; and many were the times they had all begun anew to dig and to
rake. But if Laura's energy did not fizzle out as quickly as usual--she
was the model for the rest--Mother was sure to discover that it was too
cramped and dark for them in there, and send Sarah to drive them off.

Here, safely screened from sight, Laura sat on a bench and made up her
bouquet. When it was finished--red and white in the centre with a
darker border, the whole surrounded by a ring of violet leaves--she
looked about for something to tie it up with. Sarah, applied to, was
busy ironing, and had no string in the kitchen, so Pin ran to get a reel
of cotton. But while she was away Laura had an idea. Bidding Leppie hold
the flowers tight in both his sticky little hands, she climbed in
at her bedroom window, or rather, by lying on the sill with her legs
waving in the air, she managed to grab, without losing her balance, a
pair of scissors from the chest of drawers. With these between her teeth
she emerged, to the excited interest of the boys who watched her
open-mouthed.

Laura had dark curls, Pin fair, and both wore them flapping at their
backs, the only difference being that Laura, who was now twelve years
old, had for the past year been allowed to bind hers together with a
ribbon, while Pin's bobbed as they chose. Every morning early, Mother
brushed and twisted, with a kind of grim pride, these silky ringlets
round her finger. Although the five odd minutes the curling occupied
were durance vile to Laura, the child was proud of her hair in her own
way; and when in the street she heard some one say: "Look--what pretty
curls!" she would give her head a toss and send them all a-rippling. In
addition to this, there was a crowning glory connected with them: one
hot December morning, when they had been tangled and Mother had kept her
standing too long, she had fainted, pulling the whole dressing-table
down about her ears; and ever since, she had been marked off in some
mysterious fashion from the other children. Mother would not let her go
out at midday in summer: Sarah would say: "Let that be, can't you!" did
she try to lift something that was too heavy for her; and the younger
children were to be quelled by a threat to faint on the spot, if they
did not do as she wished. "Laura's faint" had become a byword in the
family; and Laura herself held it for so important a fact in her
life that she had more than once begun a friendship with the words: "Have
you ever fainted? I have."

From among these long, glossy curls, she now cut one of the longest and
most spiral, cut it off close to the root, and with it bound the flowers
together. Mother should see that she did know how to give up something
she cared for, and was not as selfish as she was usually supposed to be.

"Oh . . h . . h!" said both little boys in a breath, then doubled up in
noisy mirth. Laura was constantly doing something to set their young
blood in amazement: they looked upon her as the personification of all
that was startling and unexpected. But Pin, returning with the reel of
thread, opened her eyes in a different way.

"Oh, Laura . . .!" she began, tearful at once.

"Now, res'vor!" retorted Laura scornfully--"res'vor" was Sarah's name
for Pin, on account of her perpetual wateriness. "Be a cry-baby, do."
But she was not damped, she was lost in the pleasure of self-sacrifice.

Pin looked after her as she danced off, then moved submissively in her
wake to be near at hand should intercession be needed. Laura was so
unsuspecting, and Mother would be so cross. In her dim, childish way Pin
longed to see these, her two nearest, at peace; she understood them both
so well, and they had little or no understanding for each other.--So
she crept to the house at her sister's heels.

Laura did not go indoors; hiding against the wall of the flagged
verandah, she threw her bouquet in at the window, meaning it to
fall on Mother's lap.

But Mother had dropped her needle, and was just lifting her face,
flushed with stooping, when the flowers hit her a thwack on the head.
She groped again, impatiently, to find what had struck her, recognised
the peace-offering, and thought of the surprise cake that was to go into
Laura's box on the morrow. Then she saw the curl, and her face darkened.
Was there ever such a tiresome child? What in all the world would she do
next?

"Laura, come here, directly!"

Laura had moved away; she was not expecting recognition. If Mother were
pleased she would call Pin to put the flowers in water for her, and that
would be the end of it. The idea of a word of thanks would have made
Laura feel uncomfortable. Now, however, at the tone of Mother's voice,
her mouth set stubbornly. She went indoors as bidden, but was already up
in arms again.

"You're a very naughty girl indeed!" began Mother as soon she
appeared. "How dare you cut off your hair? Upon my word, if it weren't
your last night I'd send you to bed without any supper!"--an unheard-of
threat on the part of Mother, who punished her children in any way but
that of denying them their food. "It's a very good thing you're leaving
home to-morrow, for you'd soon be setting the others at defiance, too,
and I should have four naughty children on my hands instead of one.--
But I'd be ashamed to go to school such a fright if I were you. Turn
round at once and let me see you!"

Laura turned, with a sinking heart. Pin cried softly in a corner.

"She thought it would please you, mother," she sobbed.

"I WILL not have you interfering, Pin, when I'm speaking to Laura. She's
old enough by now to know what I like and what I don't," said Mother,
who was vexed at the thought of the child going among strangers thus
disfigured.--"And now get away, and don't let me see you again. You're a
perfect sight."

"Oh, Laura, you do look funny!" said Leppie and Frank in weak chorus, as
she passed them in the passage.

"Well, you 'ave made a guy of yourself this time, Miss Laura, and no
mistake!" said Sarah, who had heard the above.

Laura went into her own room and locked the door, a thing Mother did not
allow. Then she threw herself on the bed and cried. Mother had not
understood in the least; and she had made herself a sight into the
bargain. She refused to open the door, though one after another rattled
the handle, and Sarah threatened to turn the hose in at the window. So
they left her alone, and she spent the evening in watery dudgeon on her
pillow. But before she undressed for the night she stealthily made a
chink and took in the slice of cake Pin had left on the door-mat. Her
natural buoyancy of spirit was beginning to reassert itself. By brushing
her hair well to one side she could cover up the gap, she found; and
after all, there was something rather pleasant in knowing that you were
misunderstood. It made you feel different from everyone else.

Mother--sewing hard after even the busy Sarah had retired--
Mother smiled a stern little smile of amusement to herself; and before
locking up for the night put the dark curl safely away. 




II.



Laura, sleeping flat on her stomach, was roused next morning by Pin who
said:

"Wake up, Wondrous Fair, mother wants to speak to you. She says you can
get into bed in my place, before you dress." Pin slept warm and cosy at
Mother's side.

Laura rose on her elbow and looked at her sister: Pin was standing in
the doorway holding her nightgown to her, in such a way as to expose all
of her thin little legs.

"Come on," urged Pin. "Sarah's going to give me my bath while you're with
mother."

"Go away, Pin," said Laura snappily. "I told you yesterday you could say
Laura, and . . . and you're more like a spider than ever."

"Spider" was another nickname for Pin, owed to her rotund little body
and mere sticks of legs--she was "all belly" as Sarah put it--and the
mere mention of it made Pin fly; for she was very touchy about her legs.

As soon as the door closed behind her, Laura sprang out of bed and,
waiting neither to wash herself nor to say her prayers, began to pull on
her clothes, confusing strings and buttons in her haste, and quite
forgetting that on this eventful morning she had meant to dress herself
with more than ordinary care. She was just lacing her shoes when Sarah
looked in.

"Why, Miss Laura, don't you know your ma wants you?"

"It's too late. I'm dressed now," said Laura darkly.

Sarah shook her head. "Missis'll be fine an' angry. An' you needn't 'ave
'ad a row on your last day."

Laura stole out of the door and ran down the garden to the summer-house.
This, the size of a goodly room, was formed of a single dense,
hairy-leafed tree, round the trunk of which a seat was built. Here she
cowered, her elbows on her knees, her chin in her hands. Her face wore
the stiff expression that went by the name of "Laura's sulks," but her
eyes were big, and as watchful as those of a scared animal. If Sarah
came to fetch her she would hold on to the seat with both hands. But
even if she had to yield to Sarah's greater strength--well, at least
she was up and dressed. Not like the last time--about a week ago Mother
had tried this kind of thing. Then, she had been caught unawares. She
had gone into Pin's warm place, curious and unsuspecting, and thereupon
Mother had begun to talk seriously to her, and not with her usual
directness. She had reminded Laura that she was growing up apace and
would soon be a woman; had told her that she must now begin to give up
childish habits, and learn to behave in a modest and womanly way--all
disagreeable, disturbing things, which Laura did not in the least want
to hear. When it became clear to her what it was about, she had thrown
back the bedclothes and escaped from the room. And since then she had
been careful never to be long alone with Mother.

But now half an hour went by and no one came to fetch her: her
grim little face relaxed. She felt very hungry, too, and when at length
she heard Pin calling, she jumped up and betrayed her hiding-place.

"Laura! Laura, where are you? Mother says to come to breakfast and not
be silly. The coach'll be here in an hour."

Taking hands the sisters ran to the house.

In the passage, Sarah was busy roping a battered tin box. With their own
hands the little boys had been allowed to paste on this a big sheet of
notepaper, which bore, in Mother's writing, the words:

Miss Laura Tweedle Rambotham The Ladies' College Melbourne.

Mother herself was standing at the breakfast-table cutting sandwiches.

"Come and eat your breakfast, child," was all she said at the
moment. "The tea's quite cold."

Laura sat down and fell to with appetite, but also with a side-glance at
the generous pile of bread and meat growing under Mother's hands.

"I shall never eat all that," she said ungraciously; it galled her still
to be considered a greedy child with an insatiable stomach.

"I know better than you do what you'll eat," said Mother. "You'll be
hungry enough by this evening I can tell you, not getting any dinner."

Pin's face fell at this prospect. "Oh, mother, won't she really get any
dinner?" she asked: and to her soft little heart going to school began
to seem one of the blackest experiences life held.

"Why, she'll be in the train, stupid, 'ow can she?" said Sarah. "Do you
think trains give you dinners?"

"Oh, mother, please cut ever such a lot!" begged Pin sniffing valiantly.

Laura began to feel somewhat moved herself at this solicitude, and
choked down a lump in her throat with a gulp of tea. But when Pin had
gone with Sarah to pick some nectarines, Mother's face grew stern, and
Laura's emotion passed.

"I feel more troubled about you than I can say, Laura. I don't know how
you'll ever get on in life--you're so disobedient and self-willed. It
would serve you very well right, I'm sure, for not coming this morning,
if I didn't give you a penny of pocket-money to take to school."

Laura had heard this threat before, and thought it wiser not to reply.
Gobbling up the rest of her breakfast she slipped away.

With the other children at her heels she made a round of the garden,
bidding good-bye to things and places. There were the two summer-houses
in which she had played house; in which she had cooked and eaten and
slept. There was the tall fir-tree with the rung-like branches by which
she had been accustomed to climb to the very tree-top; there was the
wilderness of bamboo and cane where she had been Crusoe; the ancient,
broadleaved cactus on which she had scratched their names and drawn
their portraits; here, the high aloe that had such a mysterious charm
for you, because you never knew when the hundred years might expire and
the aloe burst into flower. Here again was the old fig tree with the
rounded, polished boughs, from which, seated as in a cradle, she
had played Juliet to Pin's Romeo, and vice versa--but oftenest Juliet:
for though Laura greatly preferred to be the ardent lover at the foot,
Pin was but a poor climber, and, as she clung trembling to her branch,
needed so much prompting in her lines--even then to repeat them with
such feeble emphasis--that Laura invariably lost patience with her and
the love-scene ended in a squabble. Passing behind a wooden fence which
was a tangle of passion-flower, she opened the door of the fowl-house,
and out strutted the mother-hen followed by her pretty brood. Laura had
given each of the chicks a name, and she now took Napoleon and Garibaldi
up in her hand and laid her cheek against their downy breasts, the
younger children following her movements in respectful silence. Between
the bars of the rabbit hutch she thrust enough greenstuff to last the
two little occupants for days; and everywhere she went she was
accompanied by a legless magpie, which, in spite of its infirmity,
hopped cheerily and quickly on its stumps. Laura had rescued it and
reared it; it followed her like a dog; and she was only less devoted to
it than she had been to a native bear which died under her hands.

"Now listen, children," she said as she rose from her knees before the
hutch. "If you don't look well after Maggy and the bunnies, I don't know
what I'll do. The chicks'll be all right. Sarah'll take care of them,
'cause of the eggs. But Maggy and the bunnies don't have eggs, and if
they're not fed, or if Frank treads on Maggy again, then they'll die.
Now if you let them die, I don't know what I'll do to you! Yes, I
do: I'll send the devil to you at night when the room's dark, before you
go to sleep.--So there!"

"How can you if you're not here?" asked Leppie.

Pin, however, who believed in ghosts and apparitions with all her
fearful little heart, promised tremulously never, never to forget; but
Laura was not satisfied until each of them in turn had repeated, in a
low voice, with the appropriate gestures, the sacred secret, and
forbidden formula: 


Is my finger wet?
Is my finger dry?
God'll strike me dead,
If I tell a lie.


Then Sarah's voice was heard calling, and the boys went out into the
road to watch for the coach. Laura's dressing proved a lengthy business,
and was accomplished amid bustle, and scolding, and little peace-making
words from Pin; for in her hurry that morning Laura had forgotten to put
on the clean linen Mother had laid beside the bed, and consequently had
now to strip to the skin.

The boys announced the coming of the coach with shrill cries, and
simultaneously the rumble of wheels was heard. Sarah came from the
kitchen drying her hands, and Pin began to cry.

"Now, shut up, res'vor!" said Sarah roughly: her own eyes were
moist. "You don't see Miss Laura be such a silly-billy. Anyone 'ud think
you was goin', not 'er."

The ramshackle old vehicle, one of Cobb's Royal Mail Coaches,
big-bodied, lumbering, scarlet, pulled by two stout horses, drew
up before the door, and the driver climbed down from his seat.

"Now good day to you, ma'am, good day, miss"--this to Sarah who,
picking up the box, handed it to him to be strapped on under the
apron. "Well, well, and so the little girl's goin' to school, is she? My,
but time flies! Well do I remember the day ma'am, when I drove you all
across for the first time. These children wasn't big enough then to git
up and down be thimselves. Now I warrant you they can--just look at
'em, will you?--But my! Ain't you ashamed of yourself"--he spoke to
Pin--"pipin' your eye like that? Why, you'll flood the road if you don't
hould on.--Yes, yes, ma'am, bless you, I'll look after her, and put her
inter the train wid me own han's. Don't you be oneasy. The Lord he cares
for the widder and the orphun, and if He don't, why Patrick O'Donnell
does."

This was O'Donnell's standing joke; he uttered it with a loud chuckle.
While speaking he had let down the steps and helped the three children
up--they were to ride with Laura to the outskirts of the township. The
little boys giggled excitedly at his assertion that the horses would not
be equal to the weight. Only Pin wept on, in undiminished grief.

"Now, Miss Laura."

"Now, Laura. Good-bye, darling. And do try and be good. And be sure you
write once a week. And tell me everything. Whether you are happy--and
if you get enough to eat--and if you have enough blankets on your bed.
And remember always to change your boots if you get your feet wet. And
don't lean out of the window in the train."

For some time past Laura had had need of all her self-control,
not to cry before the children. As the hour drew near it had grown
harder and harder; while dressing, she had resorted to counting the
number of times the profile of a Roman emperor appeared in the flowers
on the wallpaper. Now the worst moment of all was come--the moment of
good-bye. She did not look at Pin, but she heard her tireless, snuffly
weeping, and set her own lips tight.

"Yes, mother . . . no, mother," she answered shortly, "I'll be all right.
Good-bye." She could not, however, restrain a kind of dry sob, which
jumped up her throat.

When she was in the coach Sarah, whom she had forgotten climbed up to
kiss her; and there was some joking between O'Donnell and the servant
while the steps were being folded and put away. Laura did not smile; her
thin little face was very pale. Mother's heart went out to her in a pity
which she did not know how to express.

"Don't forget your sandwiches. And when you're alone, feel in the pocket
of your ulster and you'll find something nice. Good-bye, darling."

"Good-bye . . . good-bye."

The driver had mounted to his seat, he unwound the reins cried "Get up!"
to the two burly horses, the vehicle was set in motion and trundled down
the main street. Until it turned the corner by the Shire Gardens, Laura
let her handkerchief fly from the window. Sarah waved hers; then wiped
her eyes and lustily blew her nose. Mother only sighed.

"It was all she could do to keep up," she said as much to herself
as to Sarah. "I do hope she'll be all right. She seems such a child to be
sending off like this. Yet what else could I do? To a State School, I've
always said it, my children shall never go--not if I have to beg the
money to send them elsewhere."

But she sighed again, in spite of the energy of her words, and stood
gazing at the place where the coach had disappeared. She was still a
comparatively young woman, and straight of body; but trouble, poverty
and night-watches had scored many lines on her forehead.

"Don't you worry," said Sarah. "Miss Laura'll be all right. She's just a
bit too clever--brains for two, that's what it is. An' children WILL
grow up an' get big . . . an' change their feathers." She spoke
absently, drawing her metaphor from a brood of chickens which had
strayed across the road, and was now trying to mount the wooden verandah
-"Shooh! Get away with you!"

"I know that. But Laura--The other children have never given me a
moment's worry. But Laura's different. I seem to get less and less able
to manage her. If only her father had been alive to help!"

"I'm sure no father livin' could do more than you for those blessed
children," said Sarah with impatience. "You think of nothin' else. It 'ud
be a great deal better if you took more care o' yourself. You sit up
nights an' don't get no proper sleep slavin' away at that blessed
embroid'ry an' stuff, so as Miss Laura can get off to school an' to 'er
books. An' then you want to worry over 'er as well.--She'll be all
right. Miss Laura's like peas. You've got to get 'em outer the
pod--they're in there sure enough. An' b'sides I guess school'll knock
all the nonsense out of 'er."

"Oh, I hope they won't be too hard on her," said Mother in quick alarm.
-"Shut the side gate, will you. Those children have left it open again.
--And, Sarah, I think we'll turn out the drawing-room."

Sarah grunted to herself as she went to close the gate. This had not
entered into her scheme of work for the day, and her cooking was still
undone. But she did not gainsay her mistress, as she otherwise would
have made no scruple of doing; for she knew that nothing was more
helpful to the latter in a crisis than hard, manual work. Besides, Sarah
herself had a sneaking weakness for what she called "dra'in'-room days".
For the drawing-room was the storehouse of what treasures had remained
over from a past prosperity. It was crowded with bric-a-brac and
ornament; and as her mistress took these objects up one by one, to dust
and polish them, she would, if she were in a good humour, tell Sarah
where and how they had been bought, or describe the places they had
originally come from: so that Sarah, pausing broom in hand to listen,
had with time gathered some vague ideas of a country like "Inja", for
example, whence came the little silver "pagody", and the expressionless
brass god who squatted vacantly and at ease. 




III.



As long as the coach rolled down the main street Laura sat bolt upright
at the window. In fancy she heard people telling one another that this
was little Miss Rambotham going to school. She was particularly glad
that just as they went past the Commercial Hotel, Miss Perrotet, the
landlord's red-haired daughter, should put her fuzzy head out of the
window--for Miss Perrotet had also been to boarding-school, and thought
very highly of herself in consequence, though it had only been for a
year, to finish. At the National Bank the manager's wife waved a
friendly hand to the children, and at the Royal Mail Hotel where they
drew up for passengers or commissions, Mrs. Paget, the stout landlady,
came out, smoothing down her black satin apron.

"Well, I'm sure I wonder your ma likes sendin' you off so alone."

The ride had comforted Pin a little; but when they had passed the chief
stores and the flour-mill, and were come to a part of the road where the
houses were fewer, her tears broke out afresh. The very last house was
left behind, the high machinery of the claims came into view, the watery
flats where Chinamen were for ever rocking washdirt in cradles; and
O'Donnell dismounted and opened the door. He lifted the three out one by
one, shaking his head in humorous dismay at Pin, and as little Frank
showed sighs of beginning, too, by puckering up his face and [P.22]
doubling up his body, the kindly man tried to make them laugh by asking
if he had the stomach-ache. Laura had one more glimpse of the children
standing hand in hand--even in her trouble Pin did not forget her
charges--then a sharp bend in the road hid them from her sight.

She was alone in the capacious body of the coach, alone, and the proud
excitement of parting was over. The staunchly repressed tears welled up
with a gush, and flinging herself down across the seat she cried
bitterly. It was not a childishly irresponsible grief like Pin's: it was
more passionate, and went deeper; and her overloaded feelings were soon
relieved. But as she was not used to crying, she missed the moment at
which she might have checked herself, and went on shedding tears after
they had become a luxury.

"Why, goodness gracious, what's this?" cried a loud, cheerful and
astonished voice, and a fat, rosy face beamed in on Laura. "Why, here's a
little girl in here, cryin' fit to break 'er heart. Come, come, my dear,
what's the matter? Don't cry like that, now don't."

The coach had stopped, the door opened and a stout woman climbed in,
bearing a big basket, and followed by a young man with straw-coloured
whiskers. Laura sat up like a dart and pulled her hat straight, crimson
with mortification at being discovered in such a plight. She had
instantly curbed her tears, but she could not disguise the fact that she
had red eyes and a swollen nose--that she was in short what Sarah
called "all bunged up". She made no reply to the newcomer's exclamations,
but sat clutching her handkerchief and staring out of the window.
The woman's good-natured curiosity, however, was not to be done.

"You poor little thing, you!" she persisted. "Wherever are you goin', my
dear, so alone?"

"I'm going to boarding-school," said Laura, and shot a glance at the
couple opposite.

"To boardin'-school? Peter! D'you hear?--Why, whatever's your ma
thinkin' of to send such a little chick as you to boardin'-school? . . .
and so alone, too."

Laura's face took on a curious air of dignity.

"I'm not so very little," she answered; and went on to explain, in
phrases which she had heard so often that she knew them by heart: "Only
small for my age. I was twelve in spring. And I have to go to school,
because I've learnt all I can at home."

This failed to impress the woman.

"Snakes alive!--that's young enough in all conscience. And such a
delicate little creature, too. Just like that one o' Sam MacFarlane's
that popped off last Christmas--isn't she, Peter?"

Peter, who avoided looking at Laura, sheepishly mumbled something about
like enough she was.

"And who IS your ma, my dear? What's your name?" continued her
interrogator.

Laura replied politely; but there was a reserve in her manner which,
together with the name she gave, told enough: the widow, Laura's mother,
had the reputation of being very "stuck-up", and of bringing up her
children in the same way.

The woman did not press Laura further; she whispered something behind
her hand to Peter, then searching in her basket found a large, red
apple, which she held out with an encouraging nod and smile.

"Here, my dear. Here's something for you. Don't cry any more, don't now.
It'll be all right."

Laura, who was well aware that she had not shed a tear since the couple
entered the coach, coloured deeply, and made a movement, half shy, half
unwilling, to put her hands behind her.

"Oh no, thank you," she said in extreme embarrassment, not wishing to
hurt the giver's feelings. "Mother doesn't care for us to take things
from strangers."

"Bless her soul!" cried the stout woman in amaze. "It's only an apple!
Now, my dear, just you take it, and make your mind easy. Your ma
wouldn't have nothin' against it to-day, I'm sure o' that--goin' away
so far and all so alone like this.--It's sweet and juicy."

"It's Melb'm you'll be boun' for I dessay?" said the yellow-haired Peter
so suddenly that Laura started.

She confirmed this, and let her solemn eyes rest on him wondering why he
was so red and fidgety and uncomfortable. The woman said: "Tch, tch,
tch!" at the length of the journey Laura was undertaking, and Peter,
growing still redder, volunteered another remark.

"I was nigh to bein' in Melb'm once meself," he said.

"Aye, and he can't never forget it, the silly loon," threw in the woman,
but so good-naturedly that it was impossible, Laura felt, for Peter to
take offence.

She gazed at the pair, speculating upon the relation they stood
in to each other. She had obediently put out her hand for the apple, and
now sat holding it, without attempting to eat it. It had not been
Mother's precepts alone that had weighed with her in declining it; she
was mortified at the idea of being bribed, as it were, to be good, just
as though she were Pin or one of the little boys. It was a punishment on
her for having been so babyish as to cry; had she not been caught in the
act, the woman would never have ventured to be so familiar.--The very
largeness and rosiness of the fruit made it hateful to her, and she
turned over in her mind how she could get rid of it.

As the coach bumped along, her fellow-passengers sat back and shut their
eyes. The road was shadeless; beneath the horses' feet a thick red dust
rose like smoke. The grass by the wayside, under the scattered gum trees
or round the big black boulders that dotted the hillocks, was burnt to
straw. In time, Laura also grew drowsy, and she was just falling into a
doze when, with a jerk, the coach pulled up at the "Halfway House." Here
her companions alighted, and there were more nods and smiles from the
woman.

"You eat it, my dear. I'm sure your ma won't say nothin'," was her last
remark as she pushed the swing-door and vanished into the house,
followed by Peter.

Then the driver's pleasant face appeared at the window of the coach. In
one hand he held a glass, in the other a bottle of lemonade.

"Here, little woman, have a drink. It's warm work ridin'."

Now this was quite different from the matter of the apple. Laura's
throat was parched with dust and tears. She accepted the offer
gratefully, thinking as she drank how envious Pin would be, could she
see her drinking bottle-lemonade.

Then the jolting and rumbling began anew. No one else got in, and when
they had passed the only two landmarks she knew--the leprous Chinaman's
hut and the market garden of Ah Chow, who twice a week jaunted at a
half-trot to the township with his hanging baskets, to supply people
with vegetables--when they had passed these, Laura fell asleep. She
wakened with a start to find that the coach had halted to apply the
brakes, at the top of the precipitous hill that led down to the railway
township. In a two-wheeled buggy this was an exciting descent; but the
coach jammed on both its brakes, moved like a snail, and seemed hardly
able to crawl.

At the foot of the hill the little town lay sluggish in the sun.
Although it was close on midday, but few people were astir in the
streets; for the place had long since ceased to be an important mining
centre: the chief claims were worked out; and the coming of the railway
had been powerless to give it the impetus to a new life. It was always
like this in these streets of low, verandahed, red-brick houses, always
dull and sleepy, and such animation as there was, was invariably to be
found before the doors of the many public-houses.

At one of these the coach stopped and unloaded its goods, for an
interminable time. People came and looked in at the window at Laura, and
she was beginning to feel alarmed lest O'Donnell, who had gone inside,
had forgotten all about her having to catch the train, when out he came,
wiping his lips.

"Now for the livin' luggage!" he said with a wink, and Laura drew
back in confusion from the laughter of a group of larrikins round the
door.

It was indeed high time at the station; no sooner was her box dislodged
and her ticket taken than the train steamed in. O'Donnell recommended
her to the guard's care; she shook hands with him and thanked him, and
had just been locked into a carriage by herself when he came running
down the platform again, holding in his hand, for everyone to see, the
apple, which Laura believed she had safely hidden under the cushions of
the coach. Red to the roots of her hair she had to receive it before a
number of heads put out to see what the matter was, and she was even
forced to thank O'Donnell into the bargain. Then the guard came along
once more, and told her he would let no one get in beside her: she need
not be afraid.

"Yes. And will you please tell me when we come to Melbourne."

Directly the train was clear of the station, she lowered a window and,
taking aim at a telegraph post, threw the apple from her with all her
might. Then she hung out of the window, as far out as she could, till
her hat was nearly carried off. This was the first railway journey she
had made by herself, and there was an intoxicating sense of freedom in
being locked in, alone, within the narrow compass of the compartment.
She was at liberty to do everything that had previously been forbidden
her: she walked up and down the carriage, jumped from one seat to
another, then lay flat on her back singing to herself, and watching the
telegraph poles fly past the windows, and the wires mount and
descend.--But now came a station and, though the train did not stop,
she sat up, in order that people might see she was travelling alone.

She grew hungry and attacked her lunch, and it turned out that Mother
had not provided too much after all. When she had finished, had brushed
herself clean of crumbs and handled, till her finger-tips were sore, the
pompous half-crown she had found in her pocket, she fell to thinking of
them at home, and of what they would now be doing. It was between two
and three o'clock: the sun would be full on the flagstones of the back
verandah; inch by inch Pin and Leppie would be driven away to find a
cooler spot for their afternoon game, while little Frank slept, and
Sarah splashed the dinner-dishes in the brick-floored kitchen. Mother
sat sewing, and she would still be sitting there, still sewing, when the
shadow of the fir tree, which at noon was shrunken like a dwarf, had
stretched to giant size, and the children had opened the front gate to
play in the shade of the public footpath.--At the thought of these
shadows, of all the familiar things she would not see again for months
to come, Laura's eyelids began to smart.

They had flashed through several stations; now they stopped; and her
mind was diverted by the noise and bustle. As the train swung into
motion again, she fell into a pleasanter line of thought. She painted to
herself, for the hundredth time, the new life towards which she was
journeying, and, as always, in the brightest colours.

She had arrived at school, and in a spacious apartment, which was a kind
of glorified Mother's drawing-room, was being introduced to a
bevy of girls. They clustered round, urgent to make the acquaintance of
the newcomer, who gave her hand to each with an easy grace and an
appropriate word. They were too well-bred to cast a glance at her
clothes, which, however she might embellish them in fancy, Laura knew
were not what they ought to be: her ulster was some years old, and so
short that it did not cover the flounce of her dress, and this dress,
and her hat with it, were Mother's taste, and consequently, Laura felt
sure, nobody else's. But her new companions saw that she wore these
clothes with an elegance that made up for their shortcomings; and she
heard them whisper: "Isn't she pretty? What black eyes! What lovely
curls!" But she was not proud, and by her ladylike manners soon made
them feel at home with her, even though they stood agape at her
cleverness: none of THEM could claim to have absorbed the knowledge of a
whole house. With one of her admirers she had soon formed a friendship
that was the wonder of all who saw it: in deep respect the others drew
back, forming a kind of allee, down which, with linked arms, the two
friends sauntered, blind to everything but themselves.--And having
embarked thus upon her sea of dreams, Laura set sail and was speedily
borne away.

"Next station you'll be there, little girl."

She sprang up and looked about her, with vacant eyes. This had been the
last stoppage, and the train was passing through the flats. In less than
two minutes she had collected her belongings, tidied her hair and put on
her gloves.

Some time afterwards they steamed in alongside a gravelled
platform, among the stones of which a few grass-blades grew. This was
Melbourne. At the nearer end of the platform stood two ladies, one stout
and elderly in bonnet and mantle, with glasses mounted on a black stick,
and shortsighted, peering eyes; the other stout and comely, too, but
young, with a fat, laughing face and rosy cheeks. Laura descried them a
long way off; and, as the carriage swept past them, they also saw her,
eager and prominent at her window. Both stared at her, and the younger
lady said something, and laughed. Laura instantly connected the remark,
and the amusement it caused the speaker, with the showy red lining of
her hat, at which she believed their eyes had been directed. She also
realised, when it was too late, that her greeting had been childish,
unnecessarily effusive; for the ladies had responded only by nods. Here
were two thrusts to parry at once, and Laura's cheeks tingled. But she
did not cease to smile, and she was still wearing this weak little
smile, which did its best to seem easy and unconcerned, when she
alighted from the train. 




IV.



The elderly lady was Laura's godmother; she lived at Prahran, and it was
at her house that Laura would sometimes spend a monthly holiday.
Godmother was good to them all in a brusque, sharp-tongued fashion; but
Pin was her especial favourite and she made no secret of it. Her
companion on the platform was a cousin of Laura's, of at least twice
Laura's age, who invariably struck awe into the children by her loud and
ironic manner of speech. She was an independent, manly person, in spite
of her plump roundnesses; she lived by herself in lodgings, and earned
her own living as a clerk in an office.

The first greetings over, Godmother's attention was entirely taken up by
Laura's box: after this had been picked out from among the other
luggage, grave doubts were expressed whether it could be got on to the
back seat of the pony-carriage, to which it was conveyed by a porter and
the boy. Laura stood shyly by and waited, while Cousin Grace kept up the
conversation by putting abrupt and embarrassing questions.

"How's your ma?" she demanded rather than asked, in the slangy and
jocular tone she employed. "I guess she'll be thanking her stars she's
got rid of you;" at which Laura smiled uncertainly, not being sure
whether Cousin Grace spoke in jest or earnest.

"I suppose you think no end of yourself going to boarding-school?"
continued the latter.

"Oh no, not at all," protested Laura with due modesty; and as
both at question and answer Cousin Grace laughed boisterously, Laura was
glad to hear Godmother calling: "Come, jump in. The ponies won't stand."

Godmother was driving herself--a low basket-carriage, harnessed to two
buff-coloured ponies. Laura sat with her back to them. Godmother flapped
the reins and said: "Get up!" but she was still fretted about the box,
which was being held on behind by the boy. An inch larger, she asserted,
and it would have had to be left behind. Laura eyed its battered sides
uneasily. Godmother might remember, she thought, that it contained her
whole wardrobe; and she wondered how many of Godmother's own ample gowns
could be compressed into so small a space.

"All my clothes are inside," she explained; "that I shall need for
months."

"Ah, I expect your poor mother has sat up sewing herself to death, that
you may be as well dressed as the rest of them," said Godmother, and
heaved a doleful sigh. But Cousin Grace laughed the wide laugh that
displayed a mouthful of great healthy teeth.

"What? All your clothes in there?" she cried. "I say! You couldn't be a
queen if you hadn't more togs than that."

"Oh, I know," Laura hastened to reply, and grew very red. "Queens need a
lot more clothes than I've got."

"Tut, tut!" said Godmother: she did not understand the allusion, which
referred to a former ambition of Laura's. "Don't talk such nonsense to
the child."

She drove very badly, and they went by quiet by-streets to escape
the main traffic: the pony-chaise wobbled at random from one side of the
road to the other, obstacles looming up only just in time for Godmother
to see them. The ponies shook and tossed their heads at the constant
sawing of the bits, and Laura had to be continually ducking, to keep out
of the way of the reins. She let the unfamiliar streets go past her in a
kind of dream; and there was silence for a time, broken only by
Godmother's expostulations with the ponies, till Cousin Grace, growing
tired of playing her bright eyes first on this, then on that, brought
them back to Laura and studied her up and down.

"I say, who on earth trimmed your hat?" she asked almost at once.

"Mother," answered Laura bravely, while the colour mounted to her cheeks
again.

"Well, I guess she made up her mind you shouldn't get lost as long as
you wore it," went on her cousin with disconcerting candour. "It makes
you look just like a great big red double dahlia."

"Let the child be. She looks well enough," threw in Godmother in her
snappish way. But Laura was sure that she, too disapproved; and felt
more than she heard the muttered remark about "Jane always having had a
taste for something gay."

"Oh, I like the colour very much. I chose it myself," said Laura, and
looked straight at the two faces before her. But her lips twitched. She
would have liked to snatch the hat from her head, to throw it in front
of the ponies and hear them trample it under their hoofs. She had never
wanted the scarlet lining of the big, upturned brim; in a dislike
to being conspicuous which was incomprehensible to Mother, she had
implored the latter to "leave it plain". But Mother had said: "Nonsense!"
and "Hold your tongue!" and "I know better,"--with this result.

Oh yes, she saw well enough how Godmother signed with her eyes to Cousin
Grace to say no more; but she pretended not to notice, and for the
remainder of the drive nobody spoke. They went past long lines of grey
houses, joined one to another and built exactly alike; past large,
fenced-in public parks where all kinds of odd, unfamiliar trees grew,
with branches that ran right down their trunks, and bushy leaves. The
broad streets were hilly; the wind, coming in puffs, met them with
clouds of gritty white dust. They had just, with bent heads, their hands
at their hats, passed through one of these miniature whirlwinds, when
turning a corner they suddenly drew up, and the boy sprang to the
ponies' heads. Laura, who had not been expecting the end so soon, saw
only a tall wooden fence; but Cousin Grace looked higher, gave a stagey
shudder and cried: "Oh my eye Betty Martin! Aren't I glad it isn't me
that's going to school! It looks just like a prison."

It certainly was an imposing building viewed from within, when the
paling-gate had closed behind them. To Laura, who came from a township
of one-storied brick or weatherboard houses, it seemed vast in its
breadth and height, appalling in its sombre greyness. Between Godmother
and Cousin Grace she walked up an asphalted path, and mounted the steps
that led to a massive stone portico. The bell Godmother rang made no
answering sound, but after a very few seconds the door swung
back, and a slender maidservant in cap and apron stood before them. She
smiled at them pleasantly, as, in Chinaman-fashion, they crossed the
threshold; then, inclining her head at a murmured word from Godmother,
she vanished as lightly as she had come, and they sat and looked about
them. They were in a plainly furnished but very lofty waiting-room.
There were two large windows. The venetian blinds had not been lowered,
and the afternoon sun, beating in, displayed a shabby patch on the
carpet. It showed up, too, a coating of dust that had gathered on the
desk-like, central table. There was the faint, distinctive smell of
strange furniture. But what impressed Laura most was the stillness. No
street noises pierced the massy walls, but neither did the faintest echo
of all that might be taking place in the great building itself reach
their ears: they sat aloof, shut off, as it were, from the living world.
And this feeling soon grew downright oppressive: it must be like this to
be dead, thought Laura to herself; and inconsequently remembered a
quarter of an hour she had once spent in a dentist's ante-room: there as
here the same soundless vacancy, the same anguished expectancy. Now, as
then, her heart began to thump so furiously that she was afraid the
others would hear it. But they, too, were subdued; though Cousin Grace
tittered continually you heard only a gentle wheezing, and even
Godmother expressed the hope that they would not be kept waiting long,
under her breath. But minute after minute went by; there they sat and
nothing happened. It began to seem as if they might sit on for ever.

All of a sudden, from out the spacious halls of which they had
caught a glimpse on arriving, brisk steps began to come towards them
over the oilcloth--at first as a mere tapping in the distance, then
rapidly gaining in weight and decision. Laura's palpitations reached
their extreme limit--another second and they might have burst her
chest. Cousin Grace ceased to giggle; the door opened with a peculiar
flourish; and all three rose to their feet.

The person who entered was a very stately lady; she wore a cap with
black ribbons. With the door-handle still in her hand she made a slight
obeisance, in which her whole body joined, afterwards to become more
erect than before. Having introduced herself to Godmother as Mrs.
Gurley, the Lady Superintendent of the institution, she drew up a chair,
let herself down upon it, and began to converse with an air of ineffable
condescension.

While she talked Laura examined her, with a child's thirst for detail.
Mrs. Gurley was large and generous of form, and she carried her head in
such a haughty fashion that it made her look taller than she really was.
She had a high colour, her black hair was touched with grey, her upper
teeth were prominent. She wore gold eyeglasses, many rings, a long gold
chain, which hung from an immense cameo brooch at her throat, and a
black apron with white flowers on it, one point of which was pinned to
her ample bosom. The fact that Laura had just such an apron in her box
went only a very little way towards reviving her spirits; for altogether
Mrs. Gurley was the most impressive person she had ever set eyes on.
Beside her, God mother was nothing but a plump, shortsighted fidgety
lady.

Particularly awe-inspiring was Mrs. Gurley when she listened to
another speaking. She held her head a little to one side, her teeth met
her underlip and her be-ringed hands toyed incessantly with the long
gold chain, in a manner which seemed to denote that she set little value
on what was being said. Awful, too, was the habit she had of suddenly
lowering her head and looking at you over the tops of her glasses: when
she did this, and when her teeth came down on her lip, you would have
liked to shrink to the size of a mouse. Godmother, it was true, was not
afraid of her; but Cousin Grace was hushed at last and as for Laura
herself, she consciously wore a fixed little simper, which was meant to
put it beyond doubt that butter would not melt in her mouth.

Godmother now asked if she might say a few words in private, and the two
ladies left the room. As the door closed behind them Cousin Grace began
to be audible again.

"Oh, snakes!" she giggled, and her double chin spread itself "There's a
Tartar for you! Don't I thank my stars it's not me that's being shunted
off here! She'll give you what-for."

"I don't think so. I think she's very nice," said Laura staunchly, out
of an instinct that made her chary of showing fear, or pain, or grief.
But her heart began to bound again, for the moment in which she would be
left alone.

"You see!" said Cousin Grace. "It'll be bread and water for a week, if
you can't do AMARE first go-off--not to mention the deponents."

"What's AMARE?" asked Laura anxiously, and her eyes grew so big that
they seemed to fill her face.

But Cousin Grace only laughed till it seemed probable that she
would burst her bodice; and Laura blushed, aware that she had
compromised herself anew.

There followed a long and nervous pause.

"I bet Godmother's asking her not to wallop you too often," the tease
had just begun afresh, when the opening of the door forced her to
swallow her sentence in the middle.

Godmother would not sit down; so the dreaded moment had come.

"Now, Laura. Be a good girl and learn well, and be a comfort to your
mother.--Not that there's much need to urge her to her books,"
Godmother interrupted herself, turning to Mrs. Gurley. "The trouble her
dear mother has always had has been to keep her from them."

Laura glowed with pleasure. Now at least the awful personage would know
that she was clever, and loved to learn. But Mrs. Gurley smiled the
chilliest thinkable smile of acknowledgment, and did not reply a word.

She escorted the other to the front door, and held it open for them to
pass out. Then, however, her pretence of affability faded clean away:
turning her head just so far that she could look down her nose at her
own shoulder, she said: "Follow me!"--in a tone Mother would not have
used even to Sarah. Feeling inexpressibly small Laura was about to obey,
when a painful thought struck her.

"Oh please, I had a box--with my clothes in it!" she cried. "Oh, I hope
they haven't forgotten and taken it away again."

But she might as well have spoken to the hatstand: Mrs. Gurley
had sailed off, and was actually approaching a turn in the hall before
Laura made haste to follow her and to keep further anxiety about her box
to herself. They went past one staircase, round a bend into shadows as
black as if, outside, no sun were shining, and began to ascend another
flight of stairs, which was the widest Laura had ever seen. The
banisters were as thick as your arm, and on each side of the
stair-carpeting the space was broad enough for two to walk abreast: what
a splendid game of trains you could have played there! On the other hand
the landing windows were so high up that only a giant could have seen
out of them.

These things occurred to Laura mechanically. What really occupied her,
as she trudged behind, was how she could please this hard-faced woman
and make her like her, for the desire to please, to be liked by all the
world, was the strongest her young soul knew. And there must be a way,
for Godmother had found it without difficulty.

She took two steps at once, to get nearer to the portly back in front of
her.

"What a VERY large place this is!" she said in an insinuating voice.

She hoped the admiration, thus subtly expressed in the form of surprise,
would flatter Mrs. Gurley, as a kind of co-proprietor; but it was
evident that it did nothing of the sort: the latter seemed to have gone
deaf and dumb, and marched on up the stairs, her hands clasped at her
waist, her eyes fixed ahead, like a walking stone-statue.

On the top floor she led the way to a room at the end of a long
passage. There were four beds in this room, a washhand--stand, a chest
of drawers, and a wall cupboard. But at first sight Laura had eyes only
for the familiar object that stood at the foot of one of the beds.

"Oh, THERE'S my box!" she cried, "Someone must have brought it up."

It was unroped; she had simply to hand over the key. Mrs. Gurley went
down on her knees before it, opened the lid, and began to pass the
contents to Laura, directing her where to lay and hang them. Overawed by
such complaisance, Laura moved nimbly about the room shaking and
unfolding, taking care to be back at the box to the minute so as not to
keep Mrs. Gurley waiting. And her promptness was rewarded; the stern
face seemed to relax. At the mere hint of this, Laura grew warm through
and through; and as she could neither control her feelings nor keep them
to herself, she rushed to an extreme and overshot the mark.

"I've got an apron like that. I think they're so pretty," she said
cordially, pointing to the one Mrs. Gurley wore.

The latter abruptly stopped her work, and, resting her hands on the
sides of the box, gave Laura one of the dreaded looks over her glasses,
looked at her from top to toe, and as though she were only now beginning
to see her. There was a pause, a momentary suspension of the breath,
which Laura soon learned to expect before a rebuke.

"Little gels," said Mrs. Gurley--and even in the midst of her confusion
Laura could not but be struck by the pronunciation of this word. "Little
gels--are required--to wear white aprons when they come here!"
--a break after each few words, as well as an emphatic head-shake,
accentuated their severity. "And I should like to know, if your mother,
has never taught you, that it is very rude, to point, and also to
remark, on what people wear."

Laura went scarlet: if there was one thing she, Mother all of them
prided themselves on, it was the good manners that had been instilled
into them since their infancy.--The rough reproof seemed to scorch her.

She went to and fro more timidly than before. Then, however, something
happened which held a ray of hope.

"Why, what is this?" asked Mrs. Gurley freezingly, and held up to view--
with the tips of her fingers, Laura thought--a small, black Prayer
Book. "Pray, are you not a dissenter?"--For the College was
nonconformist.

"Well . . . no, I'm not," said Laura, in a tone of intense apology.
Here, at last, was her chance. "But it really doesn't matter a bit. I can
go to another church quite well. I even think I'd rather. For a change.
And the service isn't so long, at least so I've heard--except the
sermon," she added truthfully.

Had she denied religion altogether, the look Mrs. Gurley bent on her
could not have been more annihilating.

"There is--unfortunately!--no occasion, for you to do anything of the
kind," she retorted. "I myself, am an Episcopalian, and I expect those
gels, who belong to the Church of England, to attend it, with me."

The unpacking at an end, Mrs. Gurley rose, smoothed down her
apron, and was just on the point of turning away, when on the bed
opposite Laura's she espied an under-garment, lying wantonly across the
counterpane. At this blot on the orderliness of the room she seemed to
swell like a turkey-cock, seemed literally to grow before Laura's eyes
as, striding to the door, she commanded an invisible some one to send
Lilith Gordon to her "DI-rectly!"!

There was an awful pause; Laura did not dare to raise her head; she even
said a little prayer. Mrs. Gurley stood working at her chain, and
tapping her foot--like a beast waiting for its prey, thought the child.
And at last a hurried step was heard in the corridor, the door opened
and a girl came in, high-coloured and scant of breath. Laura darted one
glance at Mrs. Gurley's face, then looked away and studied the pattern
of a quilt, trying not to hear what was said. Her throat swelled, grew
hard and dry with pity for the culprit. But Lilith Gordon--a girl with
sandy eyebrows, a turned-up nose, a thick plait of red-gold hair, and a
figure so fully developed that Laura mentally dubbed it a "lady's
figure", and put its owner down for years older than herself--Lilith
Gordon neither fell on her knees nor sank through the floor. Her lashes
were lowered, in a kind of dog-like submission, and her face had gone
very red when Laura ventured to look at her again; but that was all. And
Mrs. Gurley having swept Jove-like from the room, this bold girl
actually set her finger to her nose and muttered: "Old Brimstone Beast!"
As she passed Laura, too, she put out her tongue and said: "Now
then, goggle-eyes, what have you got to stare at?"

Laura was deeply hurt: she had gazed at Lilith out of the purest
sympathy. And now, as she stood waiting for Mrs. Gurley, who seemed to
have forgotten her, the strangeness of things, and the general
unfriendliness of the people struck home with full force. The late
afternoon sun was shining in, in an unfamiliar way; outside were strange
streets, strange noises, a strange white dust, the expanse of a big,
strange city. She felt unspeakably far away now, from the small, snug
domain of home. Here, nobody wanted her . . . she was alone among
strangers, who did not even like her . . . she had already, without
meaning it, offended two of them.

Another second, and the shameful tears might have found their way out.
But at this moment there was a kind of preparatory boom in the distance,
and the next, a great bell clanged through the house, pealing on and on,
long after one's ears were rasped by the din. It was followed by an
exodus from the rooms round about; there was a sound of voices and of
feet. Mrs. Gurley ceased to give orders in the passage, and returning,
bade Laura put on a pinafore and follow her.

They descended the broad staircase. At a door just at the foot, Mrs.
Gurley paused and smoothed her already faultless bands of hair; then
turned the handle and opened the door, with the majestic swing Laura had
that day once before observed. 




V.



Fifty-five heads turned as if by clockwork, and fifty-five pairs of eyes
were levelled at the small girl in the white apron who meekly followed
Mrs. Gurley down the length of the dining-room. Laura crimsoned under
the unexpected ordeal, and tried to fix her attention on the flouncing
of Mrs. Gurley's dress. The room seemed hundreds of feet long, and not a
single person at the tea-tables but took stock of her. The girls made no
scruple of leaning backwards and forwards, behind and before their
neighbours, in order to see her better, and even the governesses were
not above having a look. All were standing. On Mrs. Gurley assigning
Laura a place at her own right hand, Laura covered herself with
confusion by taking her seat at once, before grace had been said, and
before the fifty-five had drawn in their chairs with the noise of a
cavalry brigade on charge. She stood up again immediately, but it was
too late; an audible titter whizzed round the table: the new girl had
sat down. For minutes after, Laura was lost in the pattern on her plate;
and not till tongues were loosened and dishes being passed, did she
venture to steal a glance round.

There were four tables, with a governess at the head and foot of each to
pour out tea. It was more of a hall than a room and had high,
church-like windows down one side. At both ends were scores of
pigeon-holes. There was a piano in it and a fireplace; it had [P.45]
pale blue walls, and only strips of carpet on the floor. At present it
was darkish, for the windows did not catch the sun.

Laura was roused by a voice at her side; turning, she found her
neighbour offering her a plate of bread.

"No, thank you," she said impulsively; for the bread was cut in chunks,
and did not look inviting.

But the girl nudged her on the sly. "You'd better take some," she
whispered.

Laura then saw that there was nothing else. But she saw, too, the smiles
and signs that again flew round: the new girl had said no.

Humbly she accepted the butter and the cup of tea which were passed to
her in turn, and as humbly ate the piece of rather stale bread. She felt
forlornly miserable under the fire of all these unkind eyes, which took
a delight in marking her slips: at the smallest further mischance she
might disgrace herself by bursting out crying. Just at this moment,
however, something impelled her to look up. Her vis-a-vis, whom she had
as yet scarcely noticed, was staring hard. And now, to her great
surprise, this girl winked at her, winked slowly and deliberately with
the right eye. Laura was so discomposed that she looked away again at
once, and some seconds elapsed before she was brave enough to take
another peep. The wink was repeated.

It was a black-haired girl this time, a girl with small blue eyes, a
pale, freckled skin, and large white teeth. What most impressed Laura,
though, was her extraordinary gravity: she chewed away with a face as
solemn as a parson's; and then just when you were least expecting it,
came the wink. Laura was fascinated: she lay in wait for it
beforehand and was doubtful whether to feel offended by it or to laugh
at it. But at least it made her forget her mishaps, and did away with
the temptation to cry.

When, however, Mrs. Gurley had given the signal, and the fifty-five had
pushed back their chairs and set them to the table again with the same
racket as before, Laura's position was a painful one. Everybody pushed,
and talked, and laughed, in a hurry to leave the hall, and no one took
any notice of her except to stare. After some indecision, she followed
the rest through a door. Here she found herself on a verandah facing the
grounds of the school. There was a long bench, on which several people
were sitting: she took a modest seat at one end. Two of the younger
governesses looked at her and laughed, and made a remark. She saw her
room-mate, Lilith Gordon, arm in arm with a couple of companions. The
winker of the tea-table turned out to be a girl of her own age, but of a
broader make; she had fat legs, which were encased in thickly-ribbed
black stockings. As she passed the bench she left the friend she was
with, to come up to Laura and dig her in the ribs.

"DIDN'T she like her bread and butter, poor little thing?" she said.
Laura shrank from the dig, which was rough; but she could not help
smiling shyly at the girl, who looked good-natured. If only she had
stayed and talked to her! But she was off and away, her arm round a
comrade's neck.

Besides herself, there was now only an elderly governess left, who was
reading. She, Laura, in her solitude, was conspicuous to every eye. But
at this juncture up came two rather rollicking older girls, one
of whom was fair, with a red complexion. AS soon as their loud voices
had driven the governess away, the smaller of the two, who had a
pronounced squint, turned to Laura.

"Hullo, you kid," she said, "what's YOUR name?"

Laura artlessly replied. She was dumbfounded by the storm of merriment
that followed. Maria Morell, the fat girl, went purple, and had to be
thumped on the back by her friend.

"Oh, my!" she gasped, when she had got her breath. "Oh, my . . . hold
me, some one, or I shall split! Oh, golly! Laura . . . Tweedle . . .
Rambotham--Laura . . . Tweedle . . . Rambotham! . . ." her voice tailed
off again. "Gosh! Was there ever such a name?"

She laughed till she could laugh no more, rocking backwards and forwards
and from side to side; while her companion proceeded to make further
inquiries.

"Where do you come from?" the squint demanded of Laura, in a
business-like way.

Laura named the township, quaveringly. "What's your father?"

"He's dead," answered the child.

"Well, but I suppose he was alive once wasn't he, duffer? What was he
before he was dead?"

"A barrister."

"What did he die of?" 

"Consumption."

"How many servants do you keep?" 

"One."

"How much have you got a year?" 

"I don't know."

"How old are you?"

"Twelve and a quarter."

"Who made your dress?" 

"Mother."

"Oh, I say, hang it, that's enough. Stop teasing the kid," said Maria
Morell, when the laughter caused by the last admission had died away.
But the squint spied a friend, ran to her, and there was a great deal of
whispering and sniggering. Presently the pair came sauntering up and sat
down; and after some artificial humming and hawing the newcomer began to
talk, in a loud and fussy manner, about certain acquaintances of hers
called Tweedledum and Tweedledee. Both the fat girl and the
squint "split" with laughter. Laura sat with her hands locked one inside
the other; there was no escape for her, for she did not know where to
go. But when the third girl put the regulation question: "What's your
name and what's your father?" she turned on her, with the courage of
despair.

"What's yours?" she retorted hotly, at the same time not at all sure how
the big girl might revenge herself. To her relief, the others burst out
laughing at their friend's bafflement.

"That's one for you, Kate Horner," said Maria with a chuckle. "Not bad
for the kid.--Come on, Kid, will you have a walk round the garden?"

"Oh yes, PLEASE," said Laura, reddening with pleasure; and there she
was, arm in arm with her fat saviour, promenading the grounds like any
other of the fifty-five.

She assumed, as well as she could, an air of feeling at her ease
even in the presence of the cold and curious looks that met her. The fat
girl was protective, and Laura felt too grateful to her to take it amiss
that every now and then she threw back her head and laughed anew, at the
remembrance of Laura's patronymics; or that she still exchanged jokes
about them with the other couple, when they met.

But by this time half an hour had slipped away, and the girls were fast
disappearing. Maria Morell loitered till the last minute, then said,
she, too, must be off to 'stew'. Every one was hastening across the
verandah laden with books, and disappearing down a corridor. Left alone,
Laura made her way back to the dining-hall. Here some of the very young
boarders were preparing their lessons, watched over by a junior
governess. Laura lingered for a little, to see if no order were
forthcoming, then diffidently approached the table and asked the
governess if she would please tell her what to do.

"I'm sure I don't know," answered that lady, disinclined for
responsibility. "You'd better ask Miss Chapman. Here, Maggie, show her
where the study is."

Laura followed the little girl over the verandah and down the corridor.
At the end, the child pointed to a door, and on opening this Laura found
herself in a very large brightly lighted room, where the boarders sat at
two long tables with their books before them. Every head was raised at
her entrance. In great embarrassment, she threaded her way to the more
authoritative-looking of the governesses in charge, and proffered her
request. It was not understood, and she had to repeat it.

"I'm sure I don't know," said Miss Day in her turn: she had
stiff, black, wavy hair, a vivid colour, and a big, thick nose which
made her profile resemble that of a horse. "Can't you twiddle your thumbs
for a bit?--Oh well, if you're so desperately anxious for an
occupation, you'd better ask Miss Chapman."

The girls in the immediate neighbourhood laughed noiselessly, in a
bounden-duty kind of way, at their superior's pleasantry, and Laura,
feeling as though she had been hit, crossed to the other table. Miss
Chapman, the head governess, was neither so hard-looking nor so
brilliant as Miss Day. She even eyed Laura somewhat uneasily, meanwhile
toying with a long gold chain, after the manner of the Lady
Superintendent.

"Didn't Mrs. Gurley tell you what to do?" she queried. "I should think it
likely she would. Oh well, if she didn't, I suppose you'd better bring
your things downstairs. Yes . . . and ask Miss Zielinski to give you a
shelf."

Miss Zielinski--she was the governess in the dining-hall--said: "Oh,
very well," in the rather whiny voice that seemed natural to her, and
went on reading.

"Please, I don't think I know my way," ventured Laura.

"Follow your nose and you'll find it!" said Miss Zielinski without
looking up, and was forthwith wrapt in her novel again.

Once more Laura climbed the wide staircase: it was but dimly lighted,
and the passages were in darkness. After a few false moves she found her
room, saw that her box had been taken away, her books left lying [P.51]
on a chair. But instead of picking them up, she threw herself on her bed
and buried her face in the pillow. She did not dare to cry, for fear of
making her eyes red, but she hugged the cool linen to her cheeks.

"I hate them all," she said passionately, speaking aloud to herself. "Oh,
HOW I hate them!"--and wild schemes of vengeance flashed through her
young mind. She did not even halt at poison or the knife: a big cake,
sent by Mother, of which she invited all alike to partake, and into
which she inserted a fatal poison, so that the whole school died like
rabbits; or a nightly stabbing, a creeping from bed to bed in the dark,
her penknife open in her hand... 

But she had not lain thus for more than a very few minutes when steps
came along the passage; and she had only just time to spring to her feet
before one of the little girls appeared at the door.

"You're to come down at once."

"Don't you know you're not ALLOWED to stay upstairs?" asked Miss
Zielinski crossly. "What were you doing?" And as Laura did not
reply: "What was she doing, Jessie?"

"I don't know," said the child. "She was just standing there." And all
the little girls laughed, after the manner of their elders.

Before Laura had finished arranging her belongings on the shelves that
were assigned to her, some of the older girls began to drop in from the
study. One unceremoniously turned over her books, which were lying on
the table.

"Let's see what the kid's got."

Now Laura was proud of her collection: it really made a great show; for
a daughter of Godmother's had once attended the College, and her
equipment had been handed down to Laura.

"Why, you don't mean to say a kid like you's in the Second Principia
already?" said a big girl, and held up, incredulously, Smith's black and
red boards. "Wherever did YOU learn Latin?"

In the reediest of voices Laura was forced to confess that she had never
learnt Latin at all.

The girl eyed her in dubious amaze, then burst out laughing. "Oh, I
say!" she called to a friend. "Here's a rum go. Here's this kid brings
the Second Principia with her and doesn't know the First."

Several others crowded round; and all found this divergence from the
norm, from the traditional method of purchasing each book new and as it
was needed, highly ridiculous. Laura, on her knees before her shelf,
pretended to be busy; but she could not see what she was doing, for the
mist that gathered in her eyes.

Just at this moment, however, in marched Maria Morell. "Here, I say,
stop that!" she cried. "You're teasing that kid again. I won't have it.
Here, come on, Kid--Laura Tweedledum come and sit by me for supper."

For the second time, Laura was thankful to the fat girl. But as ill-luck
would have it, Miss Chapman chanced to let her eyes stray in their
direction; and having fingered her chain indecisively for a little,
said: "It seems a pity, doesn't it, Miss Day, that that nice little girl
should get in with that vulgar set?"

Miss Chapman liked to have her opinions confirmed. But this was a
weakness Miss Day did not pamper; herself strong-minded, she could
afford to disregard Miss Chapman's foibles. So she went on with
her book, and ignored the question. But Miss Zielinski, who lost no
opportunity of making herself agreeable to those over her, said with
foreign emphasis: "Yes, indeed it does."

So Laura was summoned and made to sit down at the end of the room, close
to the governesses and beside the very big girls--girls of eighteen and
nineteen, who seemed older still to her, with their figures, and waists,
and skirts that touched the ground.

Instinctively she felt that they resented her proximity. The biggest of
all, a pleasant-faced girl with a kind smile, said on seeing her
downcast air: "Poor little thing! Never mind. "But when they talked among
themselves they lowered their voices and cast stealthy glances at her,
to see if she were listening.

Supper over, three chairs were set out in an exposed position; the big
bell in the passage was lightly touched; everyone fetched a hymn-book,
one with music in it being handed to Miss Chapman at the piano. The door
opened to admit first Mrs. Gurley, then the Principal and his wife--a
tall, fair gentleman in a long coat, and a sweet-faced lady, who wore a
rose in her velvet dress.

"Let us sing in the hundred and fifty-seventh hymn," said the gentleman,
who had a Grecian profile and a drooping, sandy moustache; and when Miss
Chapman had played through the tune, the fifty-five, the governesses,
the lady and gentleman rose to their feet and sang, with halting
emphasis, of the Redeemer and His mercy, to Miss Chapman's
accompaniment, which was as indecisive as her manner, the left hand
dragging lamely along after the right.

"Let us read in the third chapter of the Second Epistle of Paul
to the Thessalonians."

Everyone laid her hymn-book on the table and sat down to listen to
Paul's words, which the sandy gentleman read to a continual nervous
movement of the left leg.

"Let us pray."

Obeying the word, the fifty-five rose, faced about, and knelt to their
chairs. It was an extempore prayer, and a long one, and Laura did not
hear much of it; for the two big girls on her right kept up throughout a
running conversation. Also, when it was about half over she was startled
to hear Miss Zielinski say, in a shrill whisper: "Heavens! There's that
mouse again," and audibly draw her skirts round her. Even Miss Chapman,
praying to her piano-chair some distance off, had heard, and turned her
head to frown rebuke.

The prayer at an end, Mr. and Mrs. Strachey bowed vaguely in several
directions, shook hands with the governesses, and left the room. This
was the signal for two of the teachers to advance with open Bibles.

"Here, little one, have you learned your verse?" whispered Laura's
pleasant neighbour.

Laura knew nothing of it; but the big girl lent her a Bible, and, since
it was not a hard verse and every girl repeated it, it was quickly
learned.

I WISDOM DWELL WITH PRUDENCE AND FIND OUT KNOWLEDGE OF WITTY INVENTIONS. 

Told off in batches, they filed up the stairs. On the first landing
stood Miss Day, watching with lynx-eyes to see that no books or eatables
were smuggled to the bedrooms. In a strident voice she exhorted
the noisy to silence, and the loiterers to haste.

Laura sped to her room. She was fortunate enough to find it still empty.
Tossing off her clothes, she gabbled ardently through her own prayers,
drew the blankets up over her head, and pretended to be asleep. Soon the
lights were out and all was quiet. Then, with her face burrowed deep, so
that not a sound could escape, she gave free play to her tears. 




VI.



MY DEAR MOTHER

I SENT YOU A POSTCARD DID YOU GET IT. I TOLD YOU I GOT HERE ALL RIGHT
AND LIKED IT VERY MUCH. I COULD NOT WRITE A LONG LETTER BEFORE I HAD NO
TIME AND WE ARE ONLY ALOWED TO WRITE LETTERS TWO EVENINGS A WEEK TUESDAY
AND FRIDAY. WHEN WE HAVE DONE OUR LESSONS FOR NEXT DAY WE SAY PLEASE MAY
I WRITE NOW AND MISS CHAPMAN SAYS HAVE YOU DONE EVERYTHING AND IF WE SAY
WE HAVE SHE SAYS YES AND IF YOU SIT AT MISS DAYS TABLE MISS DAY SAYS IT.
AND SOMETIMES WE HAVEN'T BUT WE SAY SO. I SIT UP BY MISS CHAPMAN AND SHE
CAN SEE EVERYTHING I DO AND AT TEA AND DINNER AND BREAKFAST I SIT BESIDE
MRS. GURLEY. ANOTHER GIRL IN MY CLASS SITS OPPOSITE AND ONE SITS BESIDE
ME AND WE WOULD RATHER SIT SOMEWHERE ELSE. I DON'T CARE FOR MRS. GURLEY
MUCH SHE IS VERY FAT AND NEVER SMILES AND NEVER LISTENS TO WHAT YOU SAY
UNLESS SHE SCOLDS YOU AND I THINK MISS CHAPMAN IS AFRAID OF HER TO. MISS
DAY IS NOT AFRAID OF ANYBODY. I AM IN THE FIRST CLASS. I AM IN THE
COLLEGE AND UNDER THAT IS THE SCHOOL. ONLY VERY LITTLE GIRLS ARE IN THE
SCHOOL THEY GO TO BED AT HALF PAST EIGHT AND DO THEIR LESSONS IN THE
DINING HALL. I DO MINE IN THE STUDY AND GO TO BED WITH THE BIG GIRLS.
THEY WEAR DRESSES DOWN TO THE GROUND. LILITH GORDON IS A GIRL IN MY
CLASS SHE IS IN MY ROOM TO SHE IS ONLY AS OLD AS ME AND SHE WEARS STAYS
AND HAS A BEAUTIFUL FIGGURE. ALL THE GIRLS WEAR STAYS. PLEASE SEND ME
SOME I HAVE NO WASTE. A GOVERNESS SLEEPS IN OUR ROOM AND SHE HAS
NO TEETH. SHE TAKES THEM OUT EVERY NIGHT AND PUTS THEM IN WATER WHEN THE
LIGHT IS OUT. LILITH GORDON AND THE OTHER GIRL SAY GOODNIGHT TO HER
AFTER SHE HAS TAKEN THEM OFF THEN SHE CANT TALK PROPPERLY AND WE WANT TO
HEAR HER. I THINK SHE KNOWS FOR SHE IS VERY CROSS. I DON'T LEARN LATIN
YET TILL I GO INTO THE SECOND CLASS MY SUMS ARE VERY HARD. FOR SUPPER
THERE IS ONLY BREAD AND BUTTER AND WATER IF WE DON'T HAVE CAKE AND JAM
OF OUR OWN. PLEASE SEND ME SOME STRAWBERRY JAM AND ANOTHER CAKE. TELL
SARAH THERE ARE THREE SERVANTS TO WAIT AT DINNER THEY HAVE WHITE APRONS
AND A CAP ON THEIR HEADS. THEY SAY WILL YOU TAKE BEEF MISS

I REMAIN

YOUR LOVING DAUGHTER

LAURA.

DEAR PIN

I AM VERY BUSY I WILL WRITE YOU A LETTER. YOU WOULD NOT LIKE BEING HERE
I THINK YOU SHOULD ALWAYS STOP AT HOME YOU WILL NEVER GET AS FAR AS LONG
DIVISION. MRS. GURLEY IS AN AWFUL OLD BEAST ALL THE GIRLS CALL HER THAT.
YOU WOULD BE FRIGHTENED OF HER. IN THE AFTERNOON AFTER SCHOOL WE WALK
TWO AND TWO AND YOU ASK A GIRL TO WALK WITH YOU AND IF YOU DON'T YOU HAVE
TO WALK WITH MISS CHAPMAN. MISS CHAPMAN AND MISS DAY WALKS BEHIND AND
THEY WATCH TO SEE YOU DON'T LAUGH AT BOYS. SOME GIRLS WRITE LETTERS TO
THEM AND SAY THEY WILL MEET THEM UP BEHIND A TREE IN THE CORNER OF THE
GARDEN A PALING IS LOSE AND THE BOYS PUT LETTERS IN. I THINK BOYS ARE
SILLY BUT MARIA MORELL SAYS THEY ARE TIP TOP THAT MEANS AWFULLY JOLLY.
SHE WRITES A LETTER TO BOYS EVERY WEEK SHE TAKES IT TO CHURCH AND
DROPS IT COMING OUT AND HE PICKS IT UP AND PUTS AN ANSWER THROUGH THE
FENCE. WE PUT OUR LETTERS ON THE MANTLEPIECE IN THE DINING-HALL AND MRS.
GURLEY OR MISS CHAPMAN READ THE ADRESS TO SEE WE DON'T WRITE TO BOYS.
THEY ARE SHUT UP SHE CANT READ THE INSIDE. I HOPE YOU DON'T CRY SO MUCH
AT SCHOOL NO ONE CRIES. NOW MISS CHAPMAN SAYS IT IS TIME TO STOP

I REMAIN

YOUR AFECTIONATE SISTER

LAURA.

P.S. I TOOK THE RED LINEING OUT OF MY HAT.

WARRENEGA

SUNDAY.

MY DEAR LAURA

WE WERE VERY GLAD TO GET YOUR LETTERS WHICH CAME THIS MORNING. YOUR
POSTCARD WRITTEN THE DAY AFTER YOU ARRIVED AT THE COLLEGE TOLD US LITTLE
OR NOTHING. HOWEVER GODMOTHER WAS GOOD ENOUGH TO WRITE US AN ACCOUNT OF
YOUR ARRIVAL SO THAT WE WERE NOT QUITE WITHOUT NEWS OF YOU. I HOPE YOU
REMEMBERED TO THANK HER FOR DRIVING IN ALL THAT WAY TO MEET YOU AND TAKE
YOU TO SCHOOL WHICH WAS VERY GOOD OF HER. I AM GLAD TO HEAR YOU ARE
SETTLING DOWN AND FEELING HAPPY AND I HOPE YOU WILL WORK HARD AND
DISTINGUISH YOURSELF SO THAT I MAY BE PROUD OF YOU. BUT THERE ARE
SEVERAL THINGS IN YOUR LETTERS I DO NOT LIKE. DID YOU REALLY THINK I
SHOULDN'T READ WHAT YOU WROTE TO PIN. YOU ARE A VERY FOOLISH GIRL IF YOU
DID. PIN THE SILLY CHILD TRIED TO HIDE IT AWAY BECAUSE SHE KNEW IT WOULD
MAKE ME CROSS BUT I INSISTED ON HER SHOWING IT TO ME AND I AM ASHAMED OF
YOU FOR WRITING SUCH NONSENSE TO HER. MARIA MORELL MUST BE A VERY
VULGAR MINDED GIRL TO USE THE EXPRESSIONS SHE DOES. I HOPE MY LITTLE
GIRL WILL TRY TO ONLY ASSOCIATE WITH NICE MINDED GIRLS. I DIDN'T SEND YOU
TO SCHOOL TO GET NASTY IDEAS PUT INTO YOUR HEAD BUT TO LEARN YOUR
LESSONS WELL AND GET ON. IF YOU WRITE SUCH VULGAR SILLY THINGS AGAIN I
SHALL COMPLAIN TO MRS. GURLEY OR MR. STRACHEY ABOUT THE TONE OF THE
COLLEGE AND WHAT GOES ON BEHIND THEIR BACKS. I THINK IT IS VERY RUDE OF
YOU TOO TO CALL MRS. GURLEY NAMES. ALSO ABOUT THE POOR GOVERNESS WHO HAS
TO WEAR FALSE TEETH. WAIT TILL ALL YOUR OWN TEETH ARE GONE AND THEN SEE
HOW YOU WILL LIKE IT. I DO WANT YOU TO HAVE NICE FEELINGS AND NOT GROW
ROUGH AND RUDE. THERE IS EVIDENTLY A VERY BAD TONE AMONG SOME OF THE
GIRLS AND YOU MUST BE CAREFUL IN CHOOSING YOUR FRIENDS. I AM SORRY TO
HEAR YOU ARE ONLY IN THE LOWEST CLASS. IT WOULD HAVE PLEASED ME BETTER
IF YOU HAD GOT INTO THE SECOND BUT I ALWAYS TOLD YOU YOU WERE LAZY ABOUT
YOUR SUMS--YOU CAN DO THEM WELL ENOUGH IF YOU LIKE. YOU DON'T NEED
STAYS. I HAVE NEVER WORN THEM MYSELF AND I DON'T INTEND YOU TO EITHER.
YOUR OWN MUSCLES ARE QUITE STRONG ENOUGH TO BEAR THE WEIGHT OF YOUR
BACK. BREAD AND WATER IS NOT MUCH OF A SUPPER FOR YOU TO GO TO BED ON. I
WILL SEND YOU ANOTHER CAKE SOON AND SOME JAM AND I HOPE YOU WILL SHARE
IT WITH THE OTHER GIRLS. NOW TRY AND BE SENSIBLE AND INDUSTRIOUS AND
MAKE NICE FRIENDS AND THEN I SHANT HAVE TO SCOLD YOU

YOUR LOVING MOTHER

J.T.R.

P.S. ANOTHER THING IN YOUR LETTER I DON'T LIKE. YOU SAY YOU TELL YOUR
GOVERNESS YOU HAVE FINISHED YOUR LESSONS WHEN YOU HAVE NOT DONE
SO. THAT IS TELLING AN UNTRUTH AND I HOPE YOU ARE NOT GOING TO BE LED
AWAY BY THE EXAMPLES OF BAD GIRLS. I HAVE ALWAYS BROUGHT YOU CHILDREN UP
TO BE STRAIGHTFORWARD AND I AM ASTONISHED AT YOU BEGINNING FIBBING AS
SOON AS YOU GET AWAY FROM HOME. FIBBING SOON LEADS TO SOMETHING WORSE.

P.P.S. YOU MUST HAVE WRITTEN YOUR LETTER IN A GREAT HURRY FOR YOUR
SPELLING IS ANYTHING BUT PERFECT. YOU ARE A VERY NAUGHTY GIRL TO MEDDLE
WITH YOUR HAT. PIN HAS WRITTEN A LETTER WHICH I ENCLOSE THOUGH HER
SPELLING IS WORSE THAN EVER.

DEAR LAURA

MOTHER SAYS YOU ARE A VERY SILY GIRL TO RITE SUCH SILY LETTERS I THINK
YOU ARE SILY TO I SHOOD BE FRITENED OF MRS. GIRLY I DON'T WANT TO GO TO
SKOOL I WOOD RATHER STOP WITH MOTHER AND BE A CUMFERT TO HER I THINK IT
IS NAUTY TO DROP LETTERS IN CHERCH AND VERRY SILY TO RITE TO BOYS BOYS
ARE SO SILY SARAH SENDS HER LUV SHE SAYS SHE WOOD NOT WARE A CAP ON HER
HED NOT FOR ANNYTHING SHE SAYS SHE WOOD JUST AS SOON WARE A RING THRUGH
HER NOSE.

I REMAIN

YOUR LUVING SISTER PIN.

DEAR MOTHER

PLEASE PLEASE DON'T WRITE TO MRS. GURLEY ABOUT THE TONE IN THE COLLEGE OR
NOT TO MR. STRACHEY EITHER. I WILL NEVER BE SO SILLY AGAIN. I AM SORRY
MY LETTERS WERE SO SILLY I WONT DO IT AGAIN. PLEASE DON'T WRITE TO
THEM ABOUT IT. I DON'T GO MUCH WITH MARIA MORELL NOW I THINK SHE SHE IS
VULGER TO. I KNOW TWO NICE GIRLS NOW IN MY OWN CLASS THEIR NAMES ARE
INEZ AND BERTHA THEY ARE VERY NICE AND NOT AT ALL VULGER. MARIA MORELL
IS FAT AND HAS A RED FACE SHE IS MUCH OLDER THAN ME AND I DON'T CARE FOR
HER NOW. PLEASE DON'T WRITE TO MRS. GURLEY I WILL NEVER CALL HER NAMES
AGAIN. I HAD TO WRITE MY LETTER QUICKLY BECAUSE WHEN I HAVE DONE MY
LESSONS IT IS NEARLY TIME FOR SUPPER. I AM SORRY MY SPELLING WAS WRONG I
WILL TAKE MORE PAINS NEXT TIME I WILL LEARN HARD AND GET ON AND SOON I
WILL BE IN THE SECOND CLASS. I DID NOT MEAN I SAID I HAD DONE MY LESSONS
WHEN I HAD NOT DONE THEM THE OTHER GIRLS SAY IT AND I THINK IT IS VERY
WRONG OF THEM. PLEASE DON'T WRITE TO MRS. GURLEY I WILL TRY AND BE GOOD
AND SENSIBLE AND NOT DO IT AGAIN IF YOU ONLY WONT WRITE.

I REMAIN

YOUR AFECTIONATE DAUGHTER

LAURA.

P.S. I CAN DO MY SUMS BETTER NOW.

WARRENEGA

MY DEAR LAURA

MY LETTER EVIDENTLY GAVE YOU A GOOD FRIGHT AND I AM NOT SORRY TO HEAR IT
FOR I THINK YOU DESERVED IT FOR BEING SUCH A FOOLISH GIRL. I HOPE YOU
WILL KEEP YOUR PROMISE AND NOT DO IT AGAIN. OF COURSE I DON'T MEAN THAT
YOU ARE NOT TO TELL ME EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS AT SCHOOL BUT I WANT YOU
TO ONLY HAVE NICE THOUGHTS AND FEELINGS AND GROW INTO A WISE AND
SENSIBLE GIRL. I AM NOT GOING TO WRITE A LONG LETTER TODAY. THIS [P.62]
IS ONLY A LINE TO COMFORT YOU AND LET YOU KNOW THAT I SHALL NOT WRITE TO
MRS. GURLEY OR MR. STRACHEY AS LONG AS I SEE THAT YOU ARE BEING A GOOD
GIRL AND GETTING ON WELL WITH YOUR LESSONS. I DO WANT YOU TO REMEMBER
THAT YOU ARE A LADY THOUGH YOU ARE POOR AND MUST BEHAVE IN A LADYLIKE
WAY. YOU DON'T TELL ME WHAT THE FOOD AT THE COLLEGE IS LIKE AND WHETHER
YOU HAVE BLANKETS ENOUGH ON YOUR BED AT NIGHT. DO TRY AND REMEMBER TO
ANSWER THE QUESTIONS I ASK YOU. SARAH IS BUSY WASHING TODAY AND THE
CHILDREN ARE HELPING HER BY SITTING WITH THEIR ARMS IN THE TUBS. I AM TO
TELL YOU FROM PIN THAT MAGGY IS MOULTING BADLY AND HAS NOT EATEN MUCH
SINCE YOU LEFT WHICH IS JUST THREE WEEKS TODAY

YOUR LOVING

MOTHER.

FRIDAY

MY DEAR MOTHER

I WAS SO GLAD TO GET YOUR LETTER I AM SO GLAD YOU WILL NOT WRITE TO MRS.
GURLEY THIS TIME AND I WILL PROMISE TO BE VERY GOOD AND TRY TO REMEMBER
EVERYTHING YOU TELL ME. I AM SORRY I FORGOT TO ANSWER THE QUESTIONS I
HAVE TWO BLANKETS ON MY BED AND IT IS ENOUGH. THE FOOD IS VERY NICE FOR
DINNER FOR TEA WE HAVE TO EAT A LOT OF BREAD AND BUTTER I DON'T CARE FOR
BREAD MUCH. SOMETIMES WE HAVE JAM BUT WE ARE NOT ALOWED TO EAT BUTTER
AND JAM TOGETHER. A LOT OF GIRLS GET UP AT SIX AND GO DOWN TO PRACTICE
THEY DON'T DRESS AND HAVE THEIR BATH THEY JUST PUT ON THEIR DRESSING
GOWNS ON TOP OF THEIR NIGHT GOWNS. I DON'T GO DOWN NOW TILL SEVEN I MAKE
MY OWN BED. WE HAVE PRAYERS IN THE MORNING AND THE EVENING AND
PRAYERS AGAIN WHEN THE DAY SCHOLERS COME. I DO MY SUMS BETTER NOW I
THINK I SHALL SOON BE IN THE SECOND CLASS. PINS SPELLING WAS DREADFULL
AND SHE IS NEARLY NINE NOW AND IS SUCH A BABY THE GIRLS WOULD LAUGH AT
HER.

I REMAIN

YOUR AFECTIONATE DAUGHTER LAURA.

P.S. I PARSSED A LONG SENTENCE WITHOUT ANY MISTAKES.




VII.



The mornings were beginning to grow dark and chilly: fires were laid
overnight in the outer classrooms--and the junior governess who was on
early duty, having pealed the six-o'clock bell, flitted like a grey
wraith from room to room and from one gas-jet to another, among
stretched, sleeping forms. And the few minutes' grace at an end, it was
a cold, unwilling pack that threw off coverlets and jumped out of bed,
to tie on petticoats and snuggle into dressing-gowns and shawls; for the
first approach of cooler weather was keenly felt, after the summer heat.
The governess blew on speedily chilblained fingers, in making her rounds
of the verandahs to see that each of the twenty pianos was rightly
occupied; and, as winter crept on, its chief outward sign an occasional
thin white spread of frost which vanished before the mighty sun of ten
o'clock, she sometimes took the occupancy for granted, and skipped an
exposed room.

At eight, the boarders assembled in the dining-hall for prayers and
breakfast. After this meal it was Mrs. Gurley's custom to drink a glass
of hot water. While she sipped, she gave audience, meting out rebukes
and crushing complaints--were any bold enough to offer them--standing
erect behind her chair at the head of the table, supported by one or
more of the staff. To suit the season she was draped in a shawl of
crimson wool, which reached to the flounce of her skirt, and was
borne by her portly shoulders with the grace of a past day. Beneath the
shawl, her dresses were built, year in, year out, on the same plan: cut
in one piece, buttoning right down the front, they fitted her like an
eelskin, rigidly outlining her majestic proportions, and always short
enough to show a pair of surprisingly small, well-shod feet. Thus she
stood, sipping her water, and boring with her hard, unflagging eye every
girl that presented herself to it. Most shrank noiselessly away as soon
as breakfast was over; for, unless one was very firm indeed in the
conviction of one's own innocence, to be beneath this eye was apt to
induce a disagreeable sense of guilt. In the case of Mrs. Gurley,
familiarity had never been known to breed contempt. She was possessed of
what was little short of genius, for ruling through fear; and no more
fitting overseer could have been set at the head of these half-hundred
girls, of all ages and degrees: gentle and common; ruly and unruly,
children hardly out of the nursery, and girls well over the brink of
womanhood, whose ripe, bursting forms told their own tale; the daughters
of poor ministers at reduced fees; and the spoilt heiresses of wealthy
wool-brokers and squatters, whose dowries would mount to many thousands
of pounds.--Mrs. Gurley was equal to them all.

In a very short time, there was no more persistent shrinker from the ice
of this gaze than little Laura. In the presence of Mrs. Gurley the child
had a difficulty in getting her breath. Her first week of school life
had been one unbroken succession of snubs and reprimands. For this, the
undue familiarity of her manner was to blame: she was all too
slow to grasp--being of an impulsive disposition and not naturally shy
--that it was indecorous to accost Mrs. Gurley off-hand, to treat her,
indeed, in any way as if she were an ordinary mortal. The climax had
come one morning--it still made Laura's cheeks burn to remember it. She
had not been able to master her French lesson for that day, and seeing
Mrs. Gurley chatting to a governess had gone thoughtlessly up to her and
tapped her on the arm.

"Mrs. Gurley, please, do you think it would matter very much if I only
took half this verb today? It's COUDRE, and means to sew, you know, and
it's SO hard. I don't seem to be able to get it into my head."

Before the words were out of her mouth, she saw that she had made a
terrible mistake. Mrs. Gurley's face, which had been smiling, froze to
stone. She looked at her arm as though the hand had bitten her, and
Laura's sudden shrinking did not move her, to whom seldom anyone
addressed a word unbidden.

"How DARE you interrupt me--when I am speaking!"--she hissed,
punctuating her words with the ominous head-shakes and pauses. "The first
thing, miss, for you to do, will be, to take a course of lessons, in
manners. Your present ones, may have done well enough, in the outhouse,
to which you have evidently belonged. They will not do, here, in the
company of your betters."

Above the child's head the two ladies smiled significantly at each
other, assured that, after this, there would be no further want of
respect; but Laura did not see them. The iron of the thrust went deep
down into her soul: no one had ever yet cast a slur upon her
home. Retreating to a lavatory she cried herself nearly sick, making her
eyes so red that she was late for prayers in trying to wash them white.
Since that day, she had never of her own free will approached Mrs.
Gurley again, and even avoided those places where she was likely to be
found. This was why one morning, some three weeks later, on discovering
that she had forgotten one of her lesson-books, she hesitated long
before re-entering the dining-hall. The governesses still clustered
round their chief, and the pupils were not expected to return. But it
was past nine o'clock; in a minute the public prayer-bell would ring,
which united boarders, several hundred day-scholars, resident and
visiting teachers in the largest class-room; and Laura did not know her
English lesson. So she stole in, cautiously dodging behind the group, in
a twitter lest the dreaded eyes should turn her way.

It was Miss Day who spied her and demanded an explanation.

"Such carelessness! You girls would forget your heads if they weren't
screwed on," retorted the governess, in the dry, violent manner that
made her universally disliked.

Thankful to escape with this, Laura picked out her book and hurried from
the room.

But the thoughts of the group had been drawn to her.

"The greatest little oddity we've had here for some time," pronounced
Miss Day, pouting her full bust in decisive fashion.

"She is, indeed," agreed Miss Zielinski.

"I don't know what sort of a place she comes from, I'm sure,"
continued the former: "but it must be the end of creation. She's utterly
no idea of what's what, and as for her clothes they're fit for a Punch
and Judy show."

"She's had no training either--stupid, I call her," chimed in one of
the younger governesses, whose name was Miss Snodgrass. "She doesn't
know the simplest things, and her spelling is awful. And yet, do you
know, at history the other day, she wanted to hold forth about how
London looked in Elizabeth's reign--when she didn't know a single one
of the dates!"

"She can say some poetry," said Miss Zielinski. "And she's read Scott."

One and all shook their heads at this, and Mrs. Gurley went on shaking
hers and smiling grimly. "Ah! the way gels are brought up nowadays," she
said. "There was no such thing in my time. We were made to learn what
would be of some use and help to us afterwards."

Elderly Miss Chapman twiddled her chain. "I hope I did right Mrs. Gurley.
She had one week's early practice, but she looked so white all day after
it that I haven't put her down for it again. I hope I did right?"

"Oh, well, we don't want to have them ill, you know," replied Mrs.
Gurley, in the rather irresponsive tone she adopted towards Miss
Chapman. "As long as it isn't mere laziness."

"I don't think she's lazy," said Miss Chapman. "At least she takes great
pains with her lessons at night."

This was true. Laura tried her utmost, with an industry born of
despair. For the comforting assurance of speedy promotion, which she had
given Mother, had no root in fact. These early weeks only served to
reduce, bit by bit, her belief in her own knowledge. How slender this
was, and of how little use to her in her new state, she did not dare to
confess even to herself. Her disillusionment had begun the day after her
arrival, when Dr Pughson, the Headmaster, to whom she had gone to be
examined in arithmetic, flung up hands of comical dismay at her befogged
attempts to solve the mysteries of long division. An upper class was
taking a lesson in Euclid, and in the intervals between her mazy
reckonings she had stolen glances at the master. A tiny little nose was
as if squashed flat on his face, above a grotesquely expressive mouth,
which displayed every one of a splendid set of teeth. He had small,
short-sighted, red-rimmed eyes, and curly hair which did not stop
growing at his ears, but went on curling, closely cropped, down the
sides of his face. He taught at the top of his voice, thumped the
blackboard with a pointer, was biting at the expense of a pupil who
confused the angle BFC with the angle BFG, a moment later to volley
forth a broad Irish joke which convulsed the class. He bewitched Laura;
she forgot her sums in the delight of watching him; and this made her
learning seem a little scantier than it actually was; for she had to
wind up in a great hurry. He pounced down upon her; the class laughed
anew at his playful horror; and yet again at the remark that it was
evident she had never had many pennies to spend, or she would know
better what to do with the figures that represented them.--In
these words Laura scented a reference to Mother's small income, and grew
as red as fire.

In the lowest class in the College she sat bottom, for a week or more:
what she did know, she knew in such an awkward form that she might as
well have known nothing. And after a few efforts to better her condition
she grew cautious, and hesitated discreetly before returning one of
those ingenuous answers which, in the beginning, had made her the
merry-andrew of the class. She could for instance, read a French
story-book without skipping very many words; but she had never heard a
syllable of the language spoken, and her first attempts at pronunciation
caused even Miss Zielinski to sit back in her chair and laugh till the
tears ran down her face. History Laura knew in a vague, pictorial way:
she and Pin had enacted many a striking scene in the garden--such
as "Not Angles but Angels," or, did the pump-drain overflow, Canute and
his silly courtiers--and she also had out-of-the-way scraps of
information about the characters of some of the monarchs, or, as the
governess had complained, about the state of London at a certain period;
but she had never troubled her head with dates. Now they rose before
her, a hard, dry, black line from 1066 on, accompanied, not only by the
kings who were the cause of them, but by dull laws, and their duller
repeals. Her lessons in English alone gave her a mild pleasure; she
enjoyed taking a sentence to pieces to see how it was made. She was fond
of words, too, for their own sake, and once, when Miss Snodgrass had
occasion to use the term "eleemosynary", Laura was so enchanted by
it that she sought to share her enthusiasm with her neighbour. This
girl, a fat little Jewess, went crimson, from trying to stifle her
laughter.

"What IS the matter with you girls down there?" cried Miss
Snodgrass. "Carrie Isaacs, what are you laughing like that for?"

"It's Laura Rambotham, Miss Snodgrass. She's so funny," spluttered the
girl.

"What are you doing, Laura?"

Laura did not answer. The girl spoke for her.

"She said--hee, hee!--she said it was blue."

"Blue? What's blue?" snapped Miss Snodgrass.

"That word. She said it was so beautiful . . . and that it was blue."

"I didn't. Grey-blue, I said," murmured Laura her cheeks aflame. 

The class rocked; even Miss Snodgrass herself had to join in the laugh
while she hushed and reproved. And sometimes after this, when a
particularly long or odd word occurred in the lesson, she would turn to
Laura and say jocosely: "Now, Laura, come on, tell us what colour that
is. Red and yellow, don't you think?"

But these were "Tom Fool's colours"; and Laura kept a wise silence.

One day at geography, the pupils were required to copy the outline of
the map of England. Laura, about to begin, found to her dismay that she
had lost her pencil. To confess the loss meant one of the hard, public
rebukes from which she shrank. And so, while the others drew, heads and
backs bent low over their desks, she fidgeted and sought--on her [P.72]
lap, the bench, the floor.

"What on earth's the matter?" asked her neighbour crossly; it was the
black-haired boarder who had winked at Laura the first evening at tea;
her name was Bertha Ramsey. "I can't draw a stroke if you shake like
that."

"I've lost my pencil."

The girl considered Laura for a moment, then pushed the lid from a box
of long, beautifully sharpened drawing-pencils. "Here, you can have one
of these."

Laura eyed the well-filled box admiringly, and modestly selected the
shortest pencil. Bertha Ramsay, having finished her map, leaned back in
her seat.

"And next time you feel inclined to boo-hoo at the tea-table, hold on to
your eyebrows and sing Rule Britannia.--DID it want its mummy, poor
ickle sing?"

Here Bertha's chum, a girl called Inez, chimed in from the other side.

"It's all very well for you," she said to Bertha, in a deep, slow
voice. "You're a weekly boarder."

Laura had the wish to be very pleasant, in return for the pencil. So she
drew a sigh, and said, with over-emphasis: "How nice for your mother to
have you home every week!" 

Bertha only laughed at this, in a teasing way: "Yes, isn't it?" But Inez
leaned across behind her and gave Laura a poke.

"Shut up!" she telegraphed.

"Who's talking down there?" came the governess's cry. "Here you, the new
girl, Laura what's--your-name, come up to the map."

A huge map of England had been slung over an easel; Laura was required
to take the pointer and show where Stafford lay. With the long stick in
her hand, she stood stupid and confused. In this exigency, it did not
help her that she knew, from hear-say, just how England looked; that she
could see, in fancy, its ever-green grass, thick hedges, and spreading
trees; its never-dry rivers; its hoary old cathedrals; its fogs, and
sea-mists, and over-populous cities. She stood face to face with the
most puzzling map in the world--a map seared and scored with
boundary-lines, black and bristling with names. She could not have laid
her finger on London at this moment, and as for Stafford, it might have
been in the moon.

While the class straggled along the verandah at the end of the hour,
Inez came up to Laura's side.

"I say, you shouldn't have said that about her mother." She nodded
mysteriously.

"Why not?" asked Laura, and coloured at the thought that she had again,
without knowing it, been guilty of a FAUX PAS. 

Inez looked round to see that Bertha was not within hearing, then put
her lips to Laura's ear.

"She drinks."

Laura gaped incredulous at the girl, her young eyes full of horror. From
actual experience, she hardly knew what drunkenness meant; she had
hitherto associated it only with the lowest class of Irish agricultural
labourer, or with those dreadful white women who lived, by choice, in
Chinese Camps. That there could exist a mother who drank was unthinkable
. . . outside the bounds of nature.

"Oh, how awful!" she gasped, and turned pale with excitement. Inez could
not help giggling at the effect produced by her words--the new girl was
a 'rum stick' and no mistake--but as Laura's consternation persisted,
she veered about

"Oh, well, I don't know for certain if that's it. But there's something
awfully queer about her."

"Oh, HOW do you know?" asked her breathless listener, mastered by a
morbid curiosity.

"I've been there--at Vaucluse--from a Saturday till Monday. She came
in to lunch, and she only talked to herself, not to us. She tried to eat
mustard with her pudding too, and her meat was cut up in little pieces
for her. I guess if she'd had a knife she'd have cut our throats."

"Oh!" was all Laura could get out.

"I was so frightened my mother said I shouldn't go again."

"Oh, I hope she won't ask me. What shall I do if she does?"

"Look out, here she comes! Don't say a word. Bertha's awfully ashamed of
it," said Inez, and Laura had just time to give a hasty promise.

"Hullo, you two, what are you gassing about?" cried Bertha, and dealt
out a couple of her rough and friendly punches.--"I say, who's on for a
race up the garden?"

They raced, all three, with flying plaits and curls, much kicking-up of
long black legs, and a frank display of frills and tuckers. Laura won;
for Inez's wind gave out half way, and Bertha was heavy of foot.
Leaning against the palings Laura watched the latter come puffing up to
join her--Bertha with the shameful secret in the background, of a
mother who was not like other mothers. 




VIII.



Laura had been, for some six weeks or more, a listless and unsuccessful
pupil, when one morning she received an invitation from Godmother to
spend the coming monthly holiday--from Saturday till Monday--at
Prahran. The month before, she had been one of the few girls who had
nowhere to go; she had been forced to pretend that she liked staying in,
did it in fact by preference.--Now her spirits rose.

Marina, Godmother's younger daughter, from whom Laura inherited her
school-books, was to call for her. By a little after nine o'clock on
Saturday morning, Laura had finished her weekly mending, tidied her
bedroom, and was ready dressed even to her gloves. It was a cool, crisp
day; and her heart beat high with expectation.

From the dining-hall, it was not possible to hear the ringing of the
front-door bell; but each time either of the maids entered with a
summons, Laura half rose from her chair, sure that her turn had come at
last. But it was half-past nine, then ten, then half-past; it struck
eleven, the best of the day was passing, and still Marina did not come.
Only two girls besides herself remained. Then respectively an aunt and a
mother were announced, and these two departed. Laura alone was left: she
had to bear the disgrace of Miss Day observing: "Well, it looks as if
YOUR friends had forgotten all about you, Laura."

Humiliated beyond measure, Laura had thoughts of tearing off her
hat and jacket and declaring that she felt too ill to go out. But at
last, when she was almost sick with suspense, Mary put her tidy head in
once more.

"Miss Rambotham has been called for."

Laura was on her feet before the words were spoken. She sped to the
reception-room.

Marina, a short, sleek-haired, soberly dressed girl of about twenty, had
Godmother's brisk, matter-of-fact manner.

She offered Laura her cheek to kiss. "Well, I suppose you're ready now?"

Laura forgave her the past two hours. "Yes, quite, thank you," she
answered.

They went down the asphalted path and through the garden-gate, and
turned to walk townwards. For the first time since her arrival Laura was
free again--a prisoner at large. Round them stretched the broad white
streets of East Melbourne; at their side was the thick, exotic greenery
of the Fitzroy Gardens; on the brow of the hill rose the massive
proportions of the Roman Catholic Cathedral.--Laura could have danced,
as she walked at Marina's side.

After a few queries, however, as to how she liked school and how she was
getting on with her lessons, Marina fell to contemplating a strip of
paper that she held in her hand. Laura gathered that her companion had
combined the task of calling for her with a morning's shopping, and that
she had only worked half through her list of commissions before arriving
at the College. At the next corner they got on to the outside car of a
cable-tramway, and were carried into town. Here Marina entered a
co-operative grocery store, where she was going to give an order
for a quarter's supplies. She was her mother's housekeeper, and had an
incredible knowledge of groceries, as well as a severely practical mind:
she stuck her finger-nail into butter, tasted cheeses off the blade of a
knife, ran her hands through currants, nibbled biscuits, discussed
brands of burgundy and desiccated soups--Laura meanwhile looking on,
from a high, uncomfortable chair, with a somewhat hungry envy. When
everything, down to pepper and salt, had been remembered, Marina filled
in a cheque, and was just about to turn away when she recollected an
affair of some empty cases, which she wished to send back. Another ten
minutes' parley ensued; she had to see the manager, and was closeted
with him in his office, so that by the time they emerged into the street
again a full hour had gone by.

"Getting hungry?" she inquired of Laura.

"A little. But I can wait," answered Laura politely.

"That's right," said Marina, off whose own appetite the edge had no
doubt been taken by her various nibblings. "Now there's only the
chemist."

They rode to another street, entered a druggist's, and the same thing on
a smaller scale was repeated, except that here Marina did no tasting,
but for a stray gelatine or jujube. By the time the shop door closed
behind them, Laura could almost have eaten liquorice powder. It was two
o'clock, and she was faint with hunger.

"We'll be home in plenty of time," said Marina, consulting a neat
watch. "Dinner's not till three today, because of father."

Again a tramway jerked them forward. Some half mile from their
destination, Marina rose.

"We'll get out here. I have to call at the butcher's."

At a quarter to three, it was a very white-faced, exhausted little girl
that followed her companion into the house.

"Well, I guess you'll have a fine healthy appetite for dinner," said
Marina, as she showed her where to hang up her hat and wash her hands.

Godmother was equally optimistic. From the sofa of the morning-room,
where she sat knitting, she said: "Well, YOU'VE had a fine morning's
gadding about I must say! How are you? And how's your dear mother?"

"Quite well, thank you."

Godmother scratched her head with a spare needle, and the attention she
had had for Laura evaporated. "I hope, Marina, you told Graves about
those empty jam-jars he didn't take back last time?"

Marina, without lifting her eyes from a letter she was reading,
returned: "Indeed I didn't. He made such a rumpus about the sugar-boxes
that I thought I'd try to sell them to Petersen instead."

Godmother grunted, but did not question Marina's decision. "And what
news have you from your dear mother?" she asked again, without looking
at Laura--just as she never looked at the stocking she held, but always
over the top of it.

Here, however, the dinner-bell rang, and Laura, spared the task of
giving more superfluous information, followed the two ladies to the
dining-room. The other members of the family were waiting at the table.
Godmother's husband--he was a lawyer--was a morose, black-bearded man
who, for the most part, kept his eyes fixed on his plate. Laura
had heard it said that he and Godmother did not get on well together;
she supposed this meant that they did not care to talk to each other,
for they never exchanged a direct word: if they had to communicate, it
was done by means of a third person. There was the elder daughter,
Georgina, dumpier and still brusquer than Marina, the eldest son, a
bank-clerk who was something of a dandy and did not waste civility on
little girls; and lastly there were two boys, slightly younger than
Laura, black-haired, pug-nosed, pugnacious little creatures, who stood
in awe of their father, and were all the wilder when not under his eye.

Godmother mumbled a blessing; and the soup was eaten in silence.

During the meat course, the bank-clerk complained in extreme displeasure
of the way the laundress had of late dressed his collars--these were so
high that, as Laura was not slow to notice, he had to look straight down
the two sides of his nose to see his plate--and announced that he would
not be home for tea, as he had an appointment to meet some 'chappies' at
five, and in the evening was going to take a lady friend to Brock's
Fireworks. These particulars were received without comment. As the
family plied its pudding-spoons, Georgina in her turn made a statement.

"Joey's coming to take me driving at four."

It looked as if this remark, too, would founder on the general
indifference. Then Marina said warningly, as if recalling her parent's
thoughts: "Mother!"

Awakened, Godmother jerked out: "Indeed and I hope if you go you'll take
the boys with you!"

"Indeed and I don't see why we should!"

"Very well, then, you'll stop at home. If Joey doesn't choose to come to
the point-----"

"Now hold your tongue, mother!"

"I'll do nothing of the sort."

"Crikey!" said the younger boy, Erwin, in a low voice. "Joey's got to
take us riding."

"If you and Joey can't get yourselves properly engaged," snapped
Godmother, "then you shan't go driving without the boys, and that's the
end of it."

Like dogs barking at one another, thought Laura, listening to the
loveless bandying of words--she was unused to the snappishness of the
Irish manner, which sounds so much worse than it is meant to be: and she
was chilled anew by it when, over the telephone, she heard Georgy
holding a heated conversation with Joey.

He was a fat young man, with hanging cheeks, small eyes, and a lazy,
lopsided walk.

"Hello--here's a little girl! What's HER name?--Say, this kiddy can
come along too."

As it had leaked out that Marina's afternoon would be spent between the
shelves of her storeroom, preparing for the incoming goods, Laura
gratefully accepted the offer.

They drove to Marlborough Tower. With their backs to the horse sat the
two boys, mercilessly alert for any display of fondness on the part of
the lovers; sat Laura, with her straight, inquisitive black eyes. Hence
Joey and Georgy were silent, since, except to declare their feelings,
they had nothing to say to each other.

The Tower reached, the mare was hitched up and the ascent of the
light wooden erection began. It was a blowy day.

"Boys first!" commanded Joey. "Cos o' the petticuts."--His speech was as
lazy as his walk.

He himself led the way, followed by Erwin and Marmaduke, and Laura, at
Georgy's bidding, went next. She clasped her bits of skirts anxiously to
her knees, for she was just as averse to the frills and flounces that
lay beneath being seen by Georgy, as by any of the male members of the
party. Georgy came last, and, though no one was below her, so tightly
wound about was she that she could hardly advance her legs from one step
to another. Joey looked approval; but the boys sniggered, and kept it up
till Georgy, having gained the platform, threatened them with a "clout on
the head".

On the return journey a dispute arose between the lovers: it related to
the shortest road home, waxed hot, and was rapidly taking on the
dimensions of a quarrel, when the piebald mare shied at a
traction-engine and tried to bolt. Joey gripped the reins, and passed
his free arm round Georgy's waist.

"Don't be frightened, darling."

Though the low chaise rocked from side to side and there seemed a
likelihood of it capsizing, the two boys squirmed with laughter, and
dealt out sundry nudges, kicks and pokes, all of which were received by
Laura, sitting between them. She herself turned red--with
embarrassment. At the same time she wondered why Joey should believe
George was afraid; there was no sign of it in Georgy's manner; she sat
stolid and unmoved. Besides she, Laura, was only a little girl, and felt
no fear.--She also asked herself why Joey should suddenly grow
concerned about Georgy, when, a moment before, they had been so rude to
each other.--These were interesting speculations, and, the chaise
having ceased to sway, Laura grew meditative.

In the evening Godmother had a visitor, and Laura sat in a low chair,
listening to the ladies' talk. It was dull work: for, much as she liked
to consider herself "almost grown up", she yet detested the conversation
of "real grown-ups" with a child's heartiness. She was glad when nine
o'clock struck and Marina, lighting a candle, told her to go to bed.

The next day was Sunday. Between breakfast and church-time yawned two
long hours. Georgy went to a Bible-class; Marina was busy with orders
for the dinner.

It was a bookless house--like most Australian houses of its kind: in
Marina's bedroom alone stood a small bookcase containing school and
Sunday school prizes. Laura was very fond of reading, and as she dressed
that morning had cast longing looks at these volumes, had evenly shyly
fingered the glass doors. But they were locked. Breakfast over, she
approached Marina on the subject. The latter produced the key, but only
after some haggling, for her idea of books was to keep the gilt on their
covers untarnished.

"Well, at any rate it must be a Sunday book," she said ungraciously.

She drew out THE GIANT CITIES OF BASHAN AND SYRIA'S HOLY PLACES, and
with this Laura retired to the drawing-room, where Godmother was already
settled for the day, with a suitable magazine. When the bells began to
clang the young people, primly hatted, their prayer-books in
their hands, walked to the neighbouring church. There Laura sat once
more between the boys, Marina and Georgy stationed like sentinels at the
ends of the pew, ready to pounce down on their brothers if necessary, to
confiscate animals and eatables, or to rap impish knuckles with a Bible.
It was a spacious church; the pew was in a side aisle; one could see
neither reading-desk nor pulpit; and the words of the sermon seemed to
come from a great way off.

After dinner, Laura and the boys were dispatched to the garden, to
stroll about in Sunday fashion. Here no elder person being present, the
natural feelings of the trio came out: the distaste of a quiet little
girl for rough boys and their pranks; the resentful indignation of the
boys at having their steps dogged by a sneak and a tell-tale. As soon as
they had rounded the tennis-court and were out of sight of the house,
Erwin and Marmaduke clambered over the palings and dropped into the
street, vowing a mysterious vengeance on Laura if she went indoors
without them. The child sat down on the edge of the lawn under a
mulberry tree and propped her chin on her hands. She was too timid to
return to the house and brave things out; she was also afraid of some
one coming into the garden and finding her alone, and of her then being
forced to "tell"; for most of all she feared the boys, and their vague,
rude threats. So she sat and waited . . . and waited. The shadows on the
grass changed their shapes before her eyes; distant chapel-bells tinkled
their quarter of an hour and were still again; the blighting torpor of a
Sunday afternoon lay over the world. Would to-morrow ever come? She
counted on her fingers the hours that had still to crawl by
before she could get back to school--counted twice over to be sure of
them--and all but yawned her head off, with ennui. But time passed, and
passed, and nothing happened. She was on the verge of tears, when two
black heads bobbed up above the fence, the boys scrambled over, red and
breathless, and hurried her into tea.

She wakened next morning at daybreak, so eager was she to set out. But
Marina had a hundred and one odd jobs to do before she was ready to
start, and it struck half-past nine as the two of them neared the
College. Child-like, Laura felt no special gratitude for the heavy pot
of mulberry jam Marina bore on her arm; but at sight of the stern, grey,
stone building she could have danced with joy; and on the front door
swinging to behind her, she drew a deep sigh of relief. 




IX.



From this moment on--the moment when Mary the maid's pleasant smile
saluted her--Laura's opinion of life at school suffered a change. She
was glad to be back--that was the first point: just as an adventurous
sheep is glad to regain the cover of the flock. Learning might be hard;
the governesses mercilessly secure in their own wisdom; but here she was
at least a person of some consequence, instead of as at Godmother's a
mere negligible null.

Of her unlucky essay at holiday-making she wrote home guardedly: the
most tell-tale sentence in her letter was that in which she said she
would rather not go to Godmother's again in the meantime. But there was
such a lack of warmth in her account of the visit that mother made this,
together with the above remark, the text for a scolding.

"YOU'RE A VERY UNGRATEFUL GIRL," she wrote, "TO FORGET ALL GODMOTHER HAS
DONE FOR YOU. IF IT HADN'T BEEN FOR HER SUPPLYING YOU WITH BOOKS AND
THINGS I COULDN'T HAVE SENT YOU TO SCHOOL AT ALL. AND I HOPE WHEN YOU
GROW UP YOU'LL BE AS MUCH OF A HELP TO ME AS MARINA IS TO HER MOTHER.
I'D MUCH RATHER HAVE YOU GOOD AND USEFUL THAN CLEVER AND I THINK FOR A
CHILD OF YOUR AGE YOU SEE THINGS WITH VERY SHARP UNKIND EYES. TRY AND
ONLY THINK NICE THINGS ABOUT PEOPLE AND NOT BE ALWAYS SPYING OUT THEIR
FAULTS. THEN YOU'LL HAVE PLENTY OF FRIENDS AND BE LIKED WHEREVER YOU
GO."

Laura took the statement about the goodness and cleverness with a
grain of salt: she knew better. Mother thought it the proper thing to
say, and she would certainly have preferred the two qualities combined;
but, had she been forced to choose between them, there was small doubt
how her choice would have fallen out. And if, for instance, Laura
confessed that her teachers did not regard her as even passably
intelligent, there would be a nice to-do. Mother's ambitions knew no
bounds; and, wounded in these, she was quite capable of writing
post-haste to Mrs. Gurley or Mr. Strachey, complaining of their want of
insight, and bringing forward a string of embarrassing proofs. So,
leaving Mother to her pleasing illusions, Laura settled down again to
her role of dunce, now, though, with more equanimity than before. School
was really not a bad place after all--this had for some time been her
growing conviction, and the visit to Godmother seemed to bring it to a
head.

About this time, too, a couple of pieces of good fortune came her way.

The first: she was privileged to be third in the friendship between Inez
and Bertha--a favour of which she availed herself eagerly, though the
three were as different from one another as three little girls could be.
Bertha was a good-natured romp, hard-fisted, thick of leg, and of a
plodding but ineffectual industry. Inez, on the other hand, was so
pretty that Laura never tired of looking at her: she had a pale skin,
hazel eyes, brown hair with a yellow light in it, and a Greek nose. Her
mouth was very small; her nostrils were mere tiny slits; and so lazy was
she that she seldom more than half opened her eyes. Both girls
were well over fourteen, and very fully developed: compared with them,
Laura was like nothing so much as a skinny young colt.

She was so grateful to them for tolerating her that she never took up a
stand of real equality with them: proud and sensitive, she was always
ready to draw back and admit their prior rights to each other; hence the
friendship did not advance to intimacy. But such as it was, it was very
comforting; she no longer needed to sit alone in recess; she could link
arms and walk the garden with complacency; and many were the
supercilious glances she now threw at Maria Morell and that clique; for
her new friends belonged socially to the best set in the school.

In another way, too, their company made things easier for her: neither
of them aimed high; and both were well content with the lowly places
they occupied in the class. And so Laura, who was still, in her young
confusion, unequal to discovering what was wanted of her, grew comforted
by the presence and support of her friends, and unmindful of higher
opinion; and Miss Chapman, in supervising evening lessons, remarked with
genuine regret that little Laura was growing perky and lazy.

Her second piece of good luck was of quite a different nature. 

Miss Hicks, the visiting governess for geography, had a gift for saying
biting things that really bit. She bore Inez a peculiar grudge; for she
believed that certain faculties slumbered behind the Grecian profile,
and that only the girl's ingrained sloth prevented them.

One day she lost patience with this sluggish pupil.

"I'll tell you what it is, Inez," she said; "you're blessed with a
real woman's brain: vague, slippery, inexact, interested only in the
personal aspect of a thing. You can't concentrate your thoughts, and,
worst of all, you've no curiosity--about anything that really matters.
You take all the great facts of existence on trust--just as a hen does
--and I've no doubt you'll go on contentedly till the end of your days,
without ever knowing why the ocean has tides, and what causes the
seasons.--It makes me ashamed to belong to the same sex."

Inez's classmates tittered furiously, let the sarcasm glide over them,
unhit by its truth. Inez herself, indeed, was inclined to consider the
governess's taunt a compliment, as proving that she was incapable of a
vulgar inquisitiveness. But Laura, though she laughed docilely with the
rest, could not forget the incident--words in any case had a way of
sticking to her memory--and what Miss Hicks had said often came back to
her, in the days that followed. And then, all of a sudden, just as if an
invisible hand had opened the door to an inner chamber, a light broke on
her. Vague, slippery, inexact, interested only in the personal--every
word struck home. Had Miss Hicks set out to describe HER, in particular,
she could not have done it more accurately. It was but too true: until
now, she, Laura, had been satisfied to know things in a slipslop,
razzle-dazzle way, to know them anyhow, as it best suited herself. She
had never set to work to master a subject, to make it her own in every
detail. Bits of it, picturesque scraps, striking features--what Miss
Hicks no doubt meant by the personal--were all that had attracted her.
--Oh, and she, too, had no intelligent curiosity. She could not
say that she had ever teased her brains with wondering why the earth
went round the sun and not the sun round the earth. Honestly speaking,
it made no difference to her that the globe was indented like an orange,
and not the perfect round you began by believing it to be.--But if this
were so, if she were forced to make these galling admissions, then it
was clear that her vaunted cleverness had never existed, except in
Mother's imagination. Or, at any rate, it had crumbled to pieces like a
lump of earth, under the hard, heavy hand of Miss Hicks. Laura felt
humiliated, and could not understand her companions treating the matter
so airily. She did not want to have a woman's brain, thank you; not one
of that sort; and she smarted for the whole class.

Straightway she set to work to sharpen her wits, to follow the strait
road. At first with some stumbling, of course, and frequent
backslidings. Intellectual curiosity could not, she discovered, be
awakened to order; and she often caught herself napping. Thus though she
speedily became one of the most troublesome askers-why, her desire for
information was apt to exhaust itself in putting the question, and she
would forget to listen to the answer. Besides, for the life of her she
could not drum up more interest in, say, the course of the Gulf Stream,
or the formation of a plateau, than in the fact that, when Nelly Bristow
spoke, little bubbles came out of her mouth, and that she needed to
swallow twice as often as other people; or that when Miss Hicks grew
angry her voice had a way of failing, at the crucial moment, and
flattening out to nothing--just as if one struck tin after
brass. No, it was indeed difficult for Laura to invert the value of
these things.--In another direction she did better. By dint of close
attention, of pondering both the questions asked by Miss Hicks, and the
replies made by the cleverest pupils, she began to see more clearly
where true knowledge lay. It was facts that were wanted of her; facts
that were the real test of learning; facts she was expected to know.
Stories, pictures of things, would not help her an inch along the road.
Thus, it was not the least use in the world to her to have seen the
snowy top of Mount Kosciusko stand out against a dark blue evening sky,
and to know its shape to a tittlekin. On the other hand, it mattered
tremendously that this mountain was 7308 and not 7309 feet high: that
piece of information was valuable, was of genuine use to you; for it was
worth your place in the class.

Thus did Laura apply herself to reach the school ideal, thus force
herself to drive hard nails of fact into her vagrant thoughts. And with
success. For she had, it turned out, a retentive memory, and to her joy
learning by heart came easy to her--as easy as to the most brilliant
scholars in the form. From now on she gave this talent full play,
memorising even pages of the history book in her zeal; and before many
weeks had passed, in all lessons except those in arithmetic--you could
not, alas! get sums by rote--she was separated from Inez and Bertha by
the width of the class.

But neither her taste of friendship and its comforts, nor the abrupt
change for the better in her class-fortunes, could counterbalance
Laura's luckless knack of putting her foot in it. This she continued to
do, in season and out of season. And not with the authorities
alone.

There was, for instance, that unfortunate evening when she was one of
the batch of girls invited to Mrs. Strachey's drawingroom. Laura,
ignorant of what it meant to be blasee, had received her note of
invitation with a thrill, had even enjoyed writing, in her best hand,
the prescribed formula of acceptance. But she was alone in this; by the
majority of her companions these weekly parties were frankly hated, the
chief reason being that every guest was expected to take a piece of
music with her. Even the totally unfit had to show what they could do.
And the fact that cream-tarts were served for supper was not held to
square accounts.

"It's all very well for you," grumbled Laura's room-mate, Lilith Gordon,
as she lathered her thick white arms and neck before dressing. "You're a
new girl; you probably won't be asked."

Laura did not give the matter a second thought: hastily selecting a
volume of music, she followed the rest of the white dresses into the
passage. The senior girl tapped at the drawingroom door. It was opened
by no other than the Principal himself.

In the girls' eyes, Mr. Strachey stood over six feet in his
stocking-soles. He had also a most arrogant way of looking down his
nose, and of tugging, intolerantly, at his long, drooping moustache.
There was little need for him to assume the frigid contemptuousness of
Mrs. Gurley's manner: his mere presence, the very unseeingness of his
gaze, inspired awe. Tales ran of his wrath, were it roused; but few had
experienced it. He quelled the high spirits of these young [P.93]
colonials by his dignified air of detachment.

Now, however, he stood there affable and smiling, endeavouring to put a
handful of awkward girls at their ease. But neither his nor Mrs.
Strachey's efforts availed. It was impossible for the pupils to throw
off, at will, the crippling fear that governed their relations with the
Principal. To them, his amiability resembled the antics of an
uncertain-tempered elephant, with which you could never feel safe.--
Besides on this occasion it was a young batch, and of particularly mixed
stations. And so a dozen girls, from twelve to fifteen years old, sat on
the extreme edges of their chairs, and replied to what was said to them,
with dry throats.

Though the youngest of the party, Laura was the least embarrassed: she
had never known a nursery, but had mixed with her elders since her
babyhood. And she was not of a shy disposition; indeed, she still had to
be reminded daily that shyness was expected of her. So she sat and
looked about her. It was an interesting room in which she found herself.
Low bookshelves, three shelves high, ran round the walls, and on the top
shelf were many outlandish objects. What an evening it would have been
had Mr. Strachey invited them to examine these ornaments, or to handle
the books, instead of having to pick up a title here and there by
chance.--From the shelves, her eyes strayed to the pictures on the
walls; one, in particular struck her fancy. It hung over the
mantelpiece, and was a man's head seen in profile, with a long hooked
nose, and wearing a kind of peaked cap. But that was not all: behind
this head were other profiles of the same face, and seeming to come out
of clouds. Laura stared hard, but could make nothing of it.--And
meanwhile her companions were rising with sickly smiles, to seat
themselves, red as turkey-cocks' combs, on the piano stool, where with
cold, stiff fingers they stumbled through the movement of a sonata or
sonatina.

It was Lilith Gordon who broke the chain by offering to sing. The
diversion was welcomed by Mrs. Strachey, and Lilith went to the piano.
But her nervousness was such that she broke down half-way in the little
prelude to the ballad. 

Mrs. Strachey came to the rescue. "It's so difficult, is it not, to
accompany oneself?" she said kindly. "Perhaps one of the others would
play for you?"

No one moved.

"Do any of you know the song?"

Two or three ungraciously admitted the knowledge, but none volunteered.

It was here Laura chimed in. "I could play it," she said; and coloured at
the sound of her own voice.

Mrs. Strachey looked doubtfully at the thin little girl. "Do you know it,
dear? You're too young for singing, I think."

"No, I don't know it. But I could play it from sight. It's quite easy."

Everyone looked disbelieving, especially the unhappy singer.

"I've played much harder things than that," continued Laura.

"Well, perhaps you might try," said Mrs. Strachey, with the ingrained
distrust of the unmusical.

Laura rose and went to the piano, where she conducted the song to a
successful ending.

Mrs. Strachey looked relieved. "Very nice indeed." And to Laura:
"Did you say you didn't know it, dear?"

"No, I never saw it before."

Again the lady looked doubtful. "Well, perhaps you would play us
something yourself now?"

Laura had no objection; she had played to people before her fingers were
long enough to cover the octave. She took the volume of Thalberg she had
brought with her, selected "Home, Sweet Home", and pranced in.

Her audience kept utter silence; but, had she been a little sharper, she
would have grasped that it was the silence of amazement. After the prim
sonatinas that had gone before, Thalberg's florid ornaments had a
shameless sound. Her performance, moreover, was a startling one; the
forte pedal was held down throughout; the big chords were crashed and
banged with all the strength a pair of twelve-year-old arms could put
into them; and wrong notes were freely scattered. Still, rhythm and
melody were well marked, and there was no mistaking the agility of the
small fingers.

Dead silence, too, greeted the conclusion of the piece Several girls
were very red, from trying not to laugh. The Principal tugged at his
moustache, in abstracted fashion. 

Laura had reached her seat again before Mrs. Strachey said
undecidedly: "Thank you, dear. Did you . . . hm . . . learn that piece
here?"

Laura saw nothing wrong. "Oh, no, at home," she answered. "I wouldn't care
to play the things I learn here, to people. They're so dull."

A girl emitted a faint squeak. But a half turn of Mrs. Strachey's
head subdued her. "Oh, I hope you will soon get to like classical music
also," said the lady gravely, and in all good faith. "We prefer it, you
know, to any other."

"Do you mean things like the AIR IN G WITH VARIATIONS? I'm afraid I
never shall. There's no tune in them."

Music was as fatal to Laura's equilibrium as wine would have been.
Finding herself next Mr. Strachey, she now turned to him and said, with
what she believed to be ease of manner: "Mr. Strachey, will you please
tell me what that picture is hanging over the mantelpiece? I've been
looking at it ever since I came in, but I can't make it out. Are those
ghosts, those things behind the man, or what?"

It took Mr. Strachey a minute to recover from his astonishment. He
stroked hard, and the look he bent on Laura was not encouraging.

"It seems to be all the same face," continued the child, her eyes on the
picture.

"That," said Mr. Strachey, with extreme deliberation: "that is the
portrait, by a great painter, of a great poet--Dante Alighieri."

"Oh, Dante, is it?" said Laura showily--she had once heard the
name. "Oh, yes, of course, I know now. He wrote a book, didn't he, called
FAUST? I saw it over there by the door.--What lovely books!"

But here Mr. Strachey abruptly changed his seat, and Laura's thirst for
information was left unquenched.

The evening passed, and she was in blessed ignorance of anything being
amiss, till the next morning after breakfast she was bidden to
Mrs. Gurley.

A quarter of an hour later, on her emerging from that lady's private
sitting-room, her eyes were mere swollen slits in her face. Instead,
however, of sponging them in cold water and bravely joining her friends,
Laura was still foolish enough to hide and have her cry out. So that
when the bell rang, she was obliged to go in to public prayers looking a
prodigious fright, and thereby advertising to the curious what had taken
place.

Mrs. Gurley had crushed and humiliated her. Laura learnt that she had
been guilty of a gross impertinence, in profaning the ears of the
Principal and Mrs. Strachey with Thalberg's music, and that all the
pieces she had brought with her from home would now be taken from her.
Secondly, Mr. Strachey had been so unpleasantly impressed by the
boldness of her behaviour, that she would not be invited to the
drawing-room again for some time to come.

The matter of the music touched Laura little: if they preferred their
dull old exercises to what she had offered them, so much the worse for
them. But the reproach cast on her manners stung her even more deeply
than it had done when she was still the raw little newcomer: for she had
been pluming herself of late that she was now "quite the thing".

And yet, painful as was this fresh overthrow of her pride, it was
neither the worst nor the most lasting result of the incident. That
concerned her schoolfellows. By the following morning the tale of her
doings was known to everyone. It was circulated in the first place, no
doubt, by Lilith Gordon, who bore her a grudge for her offer to
accompany the song: had Laura not put herself forward in this
objectionable way, Lilith might have escaped singing altogether. Lilith
also resented her having shown that she could do it--and this feeling
was generally shared. It evidenced a want of good-fellowship, and made
you very glad the little prig had afterwards come to grief: if you had
abilities that others had not you concealed them, instead of parading
them under people's noses.

In short, Laura had committed a twofold breach of school etiquette. No
one of course vouchsafed to explain this to her; these things one did
not put into words, things you were expected to know without telling.
Hence, she never more than half understood what she had done. She only
saw disapproval painted on faces that had hitherto been neutral, and
from one or two quarters got what was unmistakably the cold shoulder.--
Her little beginnings at popularity had somehow received a setback, and
through her own foolish behaviour. 




X.



The lesson went home; Laura began to model herself more and more on
those around her; to grasp that the unpardonable sin is to vary from the
common mould.

In August, after the midwinter holidays, she was promoted to the second
class; she began Latin; and as a reward was allowed by Mother to wear
her dresses an inch below her knees. She became a quick, adaptable
pupil, with a parrot-like memory, and at the end of the school year
delighted Mother's heart with a couple of highly gilt volumes, of
negligible contents.

At home, during those first holidays, she gave her sister and brothers
cold creeps down their spines, with her stories of the great doings that
took place at school; and none of her class-mates would have recognised
in this arrant drawer-of-the-long-bow, the unlucky little blunderbuss of
the early days.

On her return, Laura's circle of friends was enlarged. The morning after
her arrival, on entering the dining-hall, she found a new girl standing
shy and awkward before the fireplace. This was the daughter of a
millionaire squatter named Macnamara; and the report of her father's
wealth had preceded her. Yet here she now had to hang about, alone,
unhappy, the target of all eyes. It might be supposed that Laura would
feel some sympathy for her, having so recently undergone the same
experience herself. But that was not her way. She rejoiced, in
barbarian fashion, that this girl, older than she by about a year, and
of a higher social standing, should have to endure a like ordeal.
Staring heartlessly, she accentuated her part of old girl knowing all
the ropes, and was so inclined to show off that she let herself in for a
snub from Miss Snodgrass.

Tilly Macnamara joined Laura's class, and the two were soon good
friends.

Tilly was a short, plump girl, with white teeth, rather boyish hands,
and the blue-grey eyes predominant in Australia. She was usually dressed
in silk, and she never wore an apron to protect the front of her frock.
Naturally, too, she had a bottomless supply of pocket-money: if a
subscription were raised, she gave ten shillings where others gave one;
and on the Saturday holidays she flung about with half-crowns as Laura
would have been afraid to do with pennies.

For the latter with her tiny dole, which had to last so and so long,
since no more was forthcoming, it was a difficult task to move
gracefully among companions none of whom knew what it meant to be really
poor. Many trivial mortifications were the result; and countless small
subterfuges had to be resorted to, to prevent it leaking out just how
paltry her allowance was.

But the question of money was, after all, trifling, compared with the
infinitely more important one of dress.

With regard to dress, Laura's troubles were manifold. It was not only
that here, too, by reason of Mother's straitened means, she was forced
to remain an outsider: that, in itself, she would have borne [P.101]
lightly; for, as little girls go, she was indifferent to finery. Had she
had a couple of new frocks a year, in which she could have been neat and
unremarkable, she would have been more than content. But, from her
babyhood on, Laura--and Pin with her--had lamented the fact that
children could not go about clad in sacks, mercifully indistinguishable
one from another. For they were the daughters of an imaginative mother,
and, balked in other outlets, this imagination had wreaked itself on
their clothing. All her short life long, Laura had suffered under a
home-made, picturesque style of dress; and she had resented, with a
violence even Mother did not gauge, this use of her young body as a peg
on which to hang fantastic garments. After her tenth birthday she was,
she thanked goodness, considered too old for the quaint shapes beneath
which Pin still groaned; but there remained the matter of colour for
Mother to sin against, and in this she seemed to grow more intemperate
year by year. Herself dressed always in the soberest browns and blacks,
she liked to see her young flock gay as Paradise birds, lighting up a
drab world; and when Mother liked a thing, she was not given to
consulting the wishes of little people. Those were awful times when she
went, say, to Melbourne, and bought as a bargain a whole roll of cloth
of an impossible colour, which had to be utilised to the last inch; or
when she unearthed, from an old trunk, some antiquated garment to be cut
up and reshaped--a Paisley shawl, a puce ball-dress, even an old pair
of green rep curtains.

It was thus a heavy blow to Laura to find, on going home, that Mother
had already bought her new spring dress. In one respect all was
well: it had been made by the local dressmaker, and consequently had not
the home-made cut that Laura abhorred. But the colour! Her heart fell to
the pit of her stomach the moment she set eyes on it, and only with
difficulty did she restrain her tears.--Mother had chosen a vivid
purple, of a crude, old-fashioned shade.

Now, quite apart from her personal feelings, Laura had come to know very
exactly, during the few months she had been at school, the views held by
her companions on the subject of colour. No matter how sumptuous or how
simple the material of which the dress was made, it must be dark, or of
a delicate tint. Brilliancy was a sign of vulgarity, and put the wearer
outside the better circles. Hence, at this critical juncture, when Laura
was striving to ape her fellows in all vital matters, the unpropitious
advent of the purple threatened to undo her.

After her first dismayed inspection, she retreated to the bottom of the
garden to give vent to her feelings.

"I shall never be able to wear it," she moaned. "Oh, how COULD she buy
such a thing? And I needed a new dress so awfully, awfully much."

"It isn't really so bad, Laura," pleaded Pin. "It'll look darker, I'm
sure, if you've got it on--and if you don't go out in the sun."

"You haven't got to wear it. It was piggish of you, Pin, perfectly
piggish! You MIGHT have watched what she was buying."

"I did, Laura!" asseverated Pin, on the brink of tears. "There was a nice
dark brown and I said take that, you would like it better, and she said
hold your tongue, and did I think she was going to dress you as
if you were your own grandmother."

This dress hung for weeks in the most private corner of Laura's school
wardrobe. Her companions had all returned with new outfits, and on the
first assemblage for church there was a great mustering of one another,
both by girls and teachers. Laura was the only one to descend in the
dress she had worn throughout the winter. Her heart was sore with
bitterness, and when the handful of Episcopalians were marching to St
Stephen's-on-the-Hill, she strove to soothe her own wound.

"I can't think why my dress hasn't come," she said gratuitously, out of
this hurt, with an oblique glance to see how her partner took the
remark: it was the good-natured Maria Morell, who was resplendent in
velvet and feathers. "I expect that stupid dressmaker couldn't get it
done in time. I've waited for it all the week."

"What a sell!" said Maria, but with mediocre interest; for she had
cocked her eye at a harmless-looking youth, who was doing his best not
to blush on passing the line of girls.--"I say, do look at that toff
making eyes. Isn't he a nanny-goat."

On several subsequent Sundays, Laura fingered, in an agony of
indecision, the pleasing stuff of the dress, and ruefully considered its
modish cut. Once, no one being present, she even took it out of the
wardrobe. But the merciless spring sunshine seemed to make the purple
shoot fire, to let loose a host of other colours it in as well, and,
with a shudder, she re-hung it on its peg.

But the evil day came. After a holiday at Godmother's, she
received a hot letter from Mother. Godmother had complained of her
looking "dowdy", and Mother was exceedingly cross. Laura was ordered to
spend the coming Saturday as well at Prahran, and in her new dress,
under penalty of a correspondence with Mrs. Gurley. There was no going
against an order of this kind, and with death at her heart Laura
prepared to obey. On the fatal morning she dawdled as long as possible
over her mending, thus postponing dressing to go out till the others had
vacated the bedroom; where, in order not to be forced to see herself,
she kept her eyes half shut, and turned the looking-glass hind-before.
Although it was a warm day, she hung a cloak over her shoulders. But her
arms peeped out of the loose sleeves, and at least a foot of skirt was
visible. As she walked along the corridor and down the stairs, she
seemed to smudge the place with colour, and, directly she entered the
dining-hall, comet-like she drew all eyes upon her. Astonished
titterings followed in her wake; even the teachers goggled her,
afterwards to put their heads together. In the reception-room Marina
remarked at once: "Hullo!--is THIS the new dress your mother wrote us
about?"

Outside, things were no better; the very tram-conductors were fascinated
by it; and every passer-by was a fresh object of dread: Laura waited,
her heart a-thump, for the moment when he should raise his eyes and,
with a start of attention, become aware of the screaming colour. At
Godmother's all the faces disapproved: Georgina said, "What a guy!" when
she thought Laura was out of earshot; but the boys stated their
opinion openly as soon as they had her to themselves.

"Oh, golly! Like a parrot--ain't she?"

"This way to the purple parrot--this way! Step up, ladies and
gentlemen! A penny the whole show!"

That evening, she tore the dress from her back and, hanging it up inside
the cloak, vowed that, come what might, she would never put it on again.
A day or two later, on unexpectedly entering her bedroom, she found
Lilith Gordon and another girl at her wardrobe. They grew very red, and
hurried giggling from the room, but Laura had seen what they were
looking at. After this, she tied the dress up with string and brown
paper and hid it in a drawer, under her nightgowns. When she went home
at Christmas it went with her, still in the parcel, and then there was a
stormy scene. But Laura was stubborn: rather than wear the dress, she
would not go back to the College at all. Mother's heart had been
softened by the prizes; Laura seized the occasion, and extracted a
promise that she should be allowed in future to choose her own frocks.--
And so the purple dress was passed on to Pin, who detested it with equal
heartiness, but, living under Mother's eye, had not the spirit to fight
against it.

"Got anything new in the way of clothes?" asked Lilith Gordon as she and
Laura undressed for bed a night or two after their return.

"Yes, one," said Laura shortly.--For she thought Lilith winked at the
third girl, a publican's daughter from Clunes.

"Another like the last? Or have you gone in for yellow ochre this time?"

Laura flamed in silence.

"Great Scott, what a colour that was! Fit for an Easter Fair--Miss Day
said so."

"It wasn't mine," retorted Laura passionately. "It . . . it belonged to a
girl I knew who died--and her mother gave it to me as a remembrance of
her--but I didn't care for it."

"I shouldn't think you did.--But I say, does your mother let you wear
other people's clothes? What a rummy thing to do!"

She went out of the room--no doubt to spread this piece of gossip
further. Laura looked daggers after her. She was angry enough with
Lilith for having goaded her to the lie, but much angrier with herself
for its blundering ineffectualness. It was not likely she had been
believed, and if she were, well, it made matters worse instead of
better: people would conclude that she lived on charity. Always when
unexpectedly required to stand on the defensive, she said or did
something foolish. That morning, for instance, a similar thing had
happened--it had rankled all day in her mind. On looking through the
washing, Miss Day had exclaimed in horror at the way in which her
stockings were mended.

"Whoever did it? They've been done since you left here. I would never
have passed such dams."

Laura crimsoned. "Those? Oh, an old nurse we've got at home. We've had
her for years and years--but her eyesight's going now."

Miss Day sniffed audibly. "So I should think. To cobble like that!"

They were Mother's dams, hastily made, late at night, and with all
Mother's genial impatience at useful sewing as opposed to
beautiful. Laura's intention had been to shield Mother from criticism,
as well as to spare Miss Day's feelings. But to have done it so clumsily
as this! To have had to wince under Miss Day's scepticism! It was only a
wonder the governess had not there and then taxed her with the fib. For
who believed in old nurses nowadays? They were a stock property,
borrowed on the spur of the moment from readings in THE FAMILY HERALD,
from Tennyson's LADY CLARE. Why on earth had such a far-fetched excuse
leapt to her tongue? Why could she not have said Sarah, the servant, the
maid-of-all-work? Then Miss Day would have had no chance to sniff, and
she, Laura, could have believed herself believed, instead of having to
fret over her own stupidity.--But what she would like more than
anything to know was, why the mending of the stockings at home should
NOT be Sarah's work? Why must it just be Mother--her mother alone--who
made herself so disagreeably conspicuous, and not merely by darning the
stockings, but, what was a still greater grievance, by not even darning
them well? 




XI.



It was an odd thing, all the same, how easy it was to be friends with
Lilith Gordon: though she did not belong to Laura's set though Laura did
not even like her, and though she had had ample proof that Lilith was
double-faced, not to be trusted. Yet, in the months that followed the
affair of the purple dress, Laura grew more intimate with the plump,
sandy-haired girl than with either Bertha, or Inez, or Tilly. Or, to put
it more exactly, she was continually having lapses into intimacy, and
repenting them when it was too late. In one way Lilith was responsible
for this: she could make herself very pleasant when she chose, seem to
be your friend through thick and thin, thus luring you on to unbosom
yourself; and afterwards she would go away and laugh over what you had
told her, with other girls. And Laura was peculiarly helpless under such
circumstances: if it was done with tact, and with a certain assumed
warmth of manner, anyone could make a cat's-paw of her.

That Lilith and she undressed for bed together had also something to do
with their intimacy: this half-hour when one's hair was unbound and
replaited, and fat and thin arms wielded the brush, was the time of all
others for confidences. The governess who occupied the fourth bed did
not come upstairs till ten o'clock; the publican's daughter, a lazy
girl, was usually half asleep before the other two had their clothes
off.

It was in the course of one of these confidential chats that
Laura did a very foolish thing. In a moment of weakness, she
gratuitously gave away the secret that Mother supported her family by
the work of her hands.

The two girls were sitting on the side of Lilith's bed. Laura had a day
of mishaps behind her--that partly, no doubt, accounted for her
self-indulgence. But, in addition, her companion had just told her,
unasked, that she thought her "very pretty". It was not in Laura's
nature to let this pass: she was never at ease under an obligation; she
had to pay the coin back in kind.

"Embroidery? What sort? However does she do it?"--Lilith's interest was
on tiptoe at once--a false and slimy interest, the victim afterwards
told herself.

"Oh, my mother's awfully clever. It's just lovely, too, what she does--
all in silk--and ever so many different colours. She made a piano-cover
once, and got fifty pounds for it."

"How perfectly splendid!"

"But that was only a lucky chance . . . that she got that to do. She
mostly does children's dresses and cloaks and things like that."

"But she's not a dressmaker, is she?"

"A dressmaker? I should think not indeed! They're sent up, all ready to
work, from the biggest shops in town."

"I say!--she must be clever."

"She is; she can do anything. She makes the patterns up all out of her
own head. "--And filled with pride in Mother's accomplishments and
Lilith's appreciation of them, Laura fell asleep that night
without a qualm. 

It was the next evening. Several of the boarders who had finished
preparing their lessons were loitering in the dining-hall, Laura and
Lilith among them. In the group was a girl called Lucy, young but very
saucy; for she lived at Toorak, and came of one of the best families in
Melbourne. She was not as old as Laura by two years, but was already
feared and respected for the fine scorn of her opinions.

Lilith Gordon had bragged: "My uncle's promised me a gold watch and chain
when I pass matric."

Lucy of Toorak laughed: her nose came down, and her mouth went up at the
corners. "Do you think you ever will?"

"G. o. k. and He won't tell. But I'll probably get the watch all the
same."

"Where does your uncle hang out?"

"Brisbane."

"Sure he can afford to buy it?"

"Of course he can."

"What is he?"

Lilith was unlucky enough to hesitate, ever so slightly. "Oh, he's got
plenty of money," she asserted.

"She doesn't like to say what he is!"

"I don't care whether I say it or not."

"A butcher, p'raps, or an undertaker?"

"A butcher! He's got the biggest newspaper in Brisbane!"

"A newspaper! Great Scott! Her uncle keeps a newspaper!"

There was a burst of laughter from those standing round.

Lilith was scarlet now. "It's nothing to be ashamed of," she said
angrily.

But Lucy of Toorak could not recover from her amusement. "An uncle who
keeps a newspaper! A newspaper! Well, I'm glad none of MY uncles are so
rummy.--I say, does he leave it at front doors himself in the morning?"

Laura had at first looked passively on, well pleased to see another than
herself the butt of young Lucy's wit. But at this stage of her existence
she was too intent on currying favour, to side with any but the stronger
party. And so she joined in the boisterous mirth Lilith's admission and
Lucy's reception of it excited, and flung her gibes with the rest.

She was pulled up short by a hissing in her ear. "If you say one word
more, I'll tell about the embroidery!"

Laura went pale with fright: she had been in good spirits that day, and
had quite forgotten her silly confidence of the night before. Now, the
jeer that was on the tip of her tongue hung fire. She could not all at
once obliterate her smile--that would have been noticeable; but it grew
weaker, stiffer and more unnatural, then gradually faded away, leaving
her with a very solemn little face.

From this night on, Lilith Gordon represented a powder-mine, which might
explode at any minute.--And she herself had laid the train!

From the outset, Laura had been accepted, socially, by even the most
exclusive, as one of themselves; and this, in spite of her niggardly
allowance, her ridiculous clothes. For the child had race in
her: in a well-set head, in good hands and feet and ears. Her nose, too,
had a very pronounced droop, which could stand only for blue blood, or a
Hebraic ancestor--and Jews were not received as boarders in the school.
Now, loud as money made itself in this young community, effectual as it
was in cloaking shortcomings, it did not go all the way: inherited
instincts and traditions were not so easily subdued. Just some of the
wealthiest, too, were aware that their antecedents would not stand a
close scrutiny; and thus a mighty respect was engendered in them for
those who had nothing to fear. Moreover, directly you got away from the
vastly rich, class distinctions were observed with an exactitude such as
can only obtain in an exceedingly mixed society. The three professions
alone were sacrosanct. The calling of architect, for example, or of
civil engineer, was, if a fortune had not been accumulated, utterly
without prestige; trade, any connection with trade--the merest bowing
acquaintance with buying and selling--was a taint that nothing could
remove; and those girls who were related to shopkeepers, or, more awful
still, to publicans, would rather have bitten their tongues off than
have owned to the disgrace.

Yet Laura knew very well that good birth and an aristocratic appearance
would not avail her, did the damaging fact leak out that Mother worked
for her living. Work in itself was bad enough--how greatly to be envied
were those whose fathers did nothing more active than live on their
money! But the additional circumstance of Mother being a woman made
things ten times worse: ladies did not work; some one always
left them enough to live on, and if he didn't, well, then he, too,
shared the ignominy. So Laura went in fear and trembling lest the truth
should come to light--in that case, she would be a pariah indeed--went
in hourly dread of Lilith betraying her. Nothing, however, happened--at
least as far as she could discover--and she sought to propitiate Lilith
in every possible way. For the time being, though, anxiety turned her
into a porcupine, ready to erect her quills at a touch. She was ever on
the look-out for an allusion to her mother's position, and for the
slight that was bound to accompany it.

Even the governesses noticed the change in her.

Three of them sat one evening round the fire in Mrs. Gurley's
sitting-room, with their feet on the fender. The girls had gone to bed;
it was Mrs. Gurley's night off, and as Miss Day was also on leave, the
three who were left could draw in more closely than usual. Miss
Snodgrass had made the bread into toast--in spite of Miss Chapman's
quakings lest Mrs. Gurley should notice the smell when she came in--
and, as they munched, Miss Snodgrass related how she had just
confiscated a book Laura Rambotham was trying to smuggle upstairs, and
how it had turned out that it belonged, not to Laura herself, but to
Lilith Gordon.

"She was like a little spitfire about it all the same. A most
objectionable child, I call her. It was only yesterday I wanted to look
at some embroidery on her apron--a rather pretty new stitch--and do
you think she'd let me see it? She jerked it away and glared at me as if
she would have liked to eat me. I could have boxed her ears."

"I never have any trouble with Laura. I don't think you know how
to manage her," said Miss Chapman, and executed a little manoeuvre. She
had poor teeth; and, having awaited a moment when Miss Snodgrass's sharp
eyes were elsewhere engaged, she surreptitiously dropped the crusts of
the toast into her handkerchief.

"I'd be sorry to treat her as you do," said Miss Snodgrass, and
yawned. "Girls need to be made to sit up nowadays."

She yawned again, and gazing round the room for fresh food for talk,
caught Miss Zielinski with her eye. "Hullo, Ziely, what are you deep in?"
She put her arm round the other's neck, and unceremoniously laid hold of
her book. "You naughty girl, you're at Ouida again! Always got your nose
stuck in some trashy novel."

"DO let me alone," said Miss Zielinski pettishly, holding fast to the
book; but she did not raise her eyes, for they were wet.

"You know you'll count the washing all wrong again to-morrow, your
head'll be so full of that stuff."

"Yes, it's time to go, girls; to-morrow's Saturday." And Miss Chapman
sighed; for, on a Saturday morning between six and eight o'clock,
fifty-five lots of washing had to be sorted out and arranged in piles.

"Holy Moses, what a life!" ejaculated Miss Snodgrass, and yawned again,
in a kind of furious desperation. "I swear I'll marry the first man that
asks me, to get away from it.--As long as he has money enough to keep
me decently."

"You would soon wish yourself back, if you had no more feeling
for him that that," reproved Miss Chapman.

"Catch me! Not even if he had a hump, or kept a mistress, or was over
eighty. Oh dear, oh dear!"--she stretched herself so violently that her
bones cracked; to resume, in a tone of ordinary conversation: "I do wish
I knew whether to put a brown wing or a green one in that blessed hat of
mine."

Miss Chapman's face straightened out from its shocked expression. "Your
hat? Why do you want to change it? It's very nice as it is."

"My dear Miss Chapman, it's at least six months out of date.--Ziely,
you're crying!"

"I'm not," said Miss Zielinski weakly, caught in the act of blowing her
nose.

"How on earth can you cry over a book? As if it were true!"

"I thank God I haven't such a cold heart as you."

"And I thank God I'm not a romantic idiot. But your name's not Thekla
for nothing I suppose."

"My name's as good as yours. And I won't be looked down on because my
father was once a German."

"'Mr. Kayser, do you vant to buy a dawg?'" hummed Miss Snodgrass.

"Girls, girls!" admonished Miss Chapman. "How you two do bicker.--
There, that's Mrs. Gurley now! And it's long past ten."

At the creaking of the front door both juniors rose, gathered their
belongings together, and hurried from the room. But it was a false
alarm; and having picked up some crumbs and set the chairs in order,
Miss Chapman resumed her seat. As she waited, she looked about
her and wondered, with a sigh, whether it would ever be her good fortune
to call this cheery little room her own. It was only at moments like the
present that she could indulge such a dream. Did Mrs. Gurley stand
before her, majestic in bonnet and mantle, as in a minute or two she
would, or draped in her great shawl, thoughts of this kind sank to their
proper level, and Miss Chapman knew them for what they were worth. But
sitting alone by night, her chin in her hand, her eyes on the dying
fire, around her the eerie stillness of the great house, her ambition
did not seem wholly out of reach; and, giving rein to her fancy, she
could picture herself sweeping through halls and rooms, issuing orders
that it was the business of others to fulfil, could even think out a few
changes that should be made, were she head of the staff.

But the insertion of Mrs. Gurley's key in the lock, the sound of her
foot on the oilcloth, was enough to waken a sense of guilt in Miss
Chapman, and make her start to her feet--the drab, elderly, apologetic
governess once more. 




XII.



DA REGIERT DER NACHBAR, DA WIRD MAN NACHBAR.

NIETZSCHE



You might regulate your outward habit to the last button of what you
were expected to wear; you might conceal the tiny flaws and shuffle over
the big improprieties in your home life, which were likely to damage
your value in the eyes of your companions; you might, in brief, march in
the strictest order along the narrow road laid down for you by these
young lawgivers, keeping perfect step and time with them: yet of what
use were all your pains, if you could not marshal your thoughts and
feelings--the very realest part of you--in rank and file as
well? . .. if these persisted in escaping control?--Such was the question
which, about this time, began to present itself to Laura's mind.

It first took form on the day Miss Blount, the secretary, popped her
head in at the door and announced: "At half-past three, Class Two to
Number One."

Class Two was taking a lesson in elocution: that is to say Mr. Repton,
the visiting-master for this branch of study, was reading aloud, in a
sonorous voice, a chapter of HANDY ANDY. He underlined his points
heavily, and his hearers, like the self-conscious, emotionally shy young
colonials they were, felt half amused by, half-superior to the
histrionic display. They lounged in easy, ungraceful postures while he
read, reclining one against another, or sprawling forward over
the desks, their heads on their arms. It was the first hour after
dinner, when one's thoughts were sleepy and stupid, and Mr. Repton was
not a pattern disciplinarian; but the general abandonment of attitude
had another ground as well. It had to do with the shape of the master's
legs. These were the object of an enthusiastic admiration. They were
generally admitted to be the handsomest in the school, and those girls
were thought lucky who could get the best view of them beneath the desk.
Moreover, the rumour ran that Mr. Repton had once been an actor--his
very curly hair no doubt lent weight to the report--and Class Two was
fond of picturing the comely limbs in the tights of a Hamlet or Othello.
It also, of course, invented for him a lurid life outside the College
walls--notwithstanding the fact that he and his sonsy wife sat opposite
the boarders in church every Sunday morning, the embodiment of the
virtuous commonplace; and whenever he looked at a pupil, every time he
singled one of them out for special notice, he was believed to have an
ulterior motive, his words were construed into meaning something they
should not mean: so that the poor man was often genuinely puzzled by the
reception of his friendly overtures.--Such was Class Two's youthful
contribution to the romance of school life.

On this particular day, however, the sudden, short snap of the
secretary's announcement that, instead of dispersing at half-past three,
the entire school was to reassemble, galvanised the class. Glances of
mingled apprehension and excitement flew round; eyes telegraphed [P.119]
vigorous messages; and there was little attention left for well-shaped
members, or for the antics of Handy Andy under his mother's bed.

But when the hour came, and all classes were moving in the same
direction, verandahs and corridors one seething mass of girls, it was
the excitement that prevailed. For any break was welcome in the
uniformity of the days; and the nervous tension now felt was no more
disagreeable, at bottom, than was the pleasant trepidation experienced
of old by those who went to be present at a hanging.

In the course of the past weeks a number of petty thefts had been
committed. Day-scholars who left small sums of money in their jacket
pockets would find, on returning to the cloakrooms, that these had been
pilfered. For a time, the losses were borne in silence, because of the
reluctance inherent in young girls to making a fuss. But when shillings
began to vanish in the same fashion, and once even half-a-crown was
missing, it was recognised that the thing must be put a stop to; and one
bolder than the rest, and with a stronger sense of public morality,
lodged a complaint. Investigations were made, a trap was set, and the
thief discovered.--The school was now assembled to see justice done.

The great room was fuller even than at morning prayers; for then there
was always an unpunctual minority. A crowd of girls who had not been
able to find seats was massed together at the further end. As at
prayers, visiting and resident teachers stood in a line, with their
backs to the high windows; they were ranged in order of precedence,
topped by Dr Pughson, who stood next Mr. Strachey's desk. All [P.120]
alike wore blank, stern faces.

In one of the rows of desks for two--blackened, ink-scored, dusty
desks, with eternally dry ink-wells--sat Laura and Tilly, behind them
Inez and Bertha. The cheeks of the four were flushed. But, while the
others only whispered and wondered, Laura was on the tiptoe of
expectation. She could not get her breath properly, and her hands and
feet were cold. Twisting her fingers, in and out, she moistened her lips
with her tongue.--When, oh, when would it begin?

These few foregoing minutes were the most trying of any. For when, in an
ominous hush, Mr. Strachey entered and strode to his desk, Laura
suddenly grew calm, and could take note of everything that passed.

The Principal raised his hand, to enjoin a silence that was already
absolute.

"Will Miss Johns stand up!"

At these words, spoken in a low, impressive tone, Bertha burst into
tears and hid her face in her handkerchief. Hundreds of eyes sought the
unhappy culprit as she rose, then to be cast down and remain glued to
the floor.

The girl stood, pale and silly-looking, and stared at Mr. Strachey much
as a rabbit stares at the snake that is about to eat it. She was a very
ugly girl of fourteen, with a pasty face, and lank hair that dangled to
her shoulders. Her mouth had fallen half open through fear, and she did
not shut it all the time she was on view.

Laura could not take her eyes off the scene: they travelled, burning
with curiosity, from Annie Johns to Mr. Strachey, and back again to the
miserable thief. When, after a few introductory remarks on crime
in general, the Principal passed on to the present case, and described
it in detail, Laura was fascinated by his oratory, and gazed full at
him. He made it all live vividly before her; she hung on his lips,
appreciating his points, the skilful way in which he worked up his
climaxes. But then, she herself knew what it was to be poor--as Annie
Johns had been. She understood what it would mean to lack your tram-fare
on a rainy morning--according to Mr. Strachey this was the motor
impulse of the thefts--because a lolly shop had stretched out its
octopus arms after you. She could imagine, too, with a shiver, how easy
it would be, the loss of the first pennies having remained undiscovered,
to go on to threepenny-bits, and from these to sixpences. More
particularly since the money had been taken, without exception, from
pockets in which there was plenty. Not, Laura felt sure, in order to
avoid detection, as Mr. Strachey supposed, but because to those who had
so much a few odd coins could not matter. She wondered if everyone else
agreed with him on this point. How did the teachers feel about it?--and
she ran her eyes over the row, to learn their opinions from their faces.
But these were as stolid as ever. Only good old Chapman, she thought,
looked a little sorry, and Miss Zielinski--yes, Miss Zielinski was
crying! This discovery thrilled Laura--just as, at the play, the fact
of one spectator being moved to tears intensifies his neighbour's
enjoyment.--But when Mr. Strachey left the field of personal narration
and went on to the moral aspects of the affair, Laura ceased to be
gripped by him, and turned anew to study the pale, dogged face [P.122]
of the accused, though she had to crane her neck to do it. Before such a
stony mask as this, she was driven to imagine what must be going on
behind it; and, while thus engrossed, she felt her arm angrily tweaked.
It was Tilly.

"You ARE a beast to stare like that!"

"I'm not staring."

She turned her eyes away at once, more than half believing her own
words; and then, for some seconds, she tried to do what was expected of
her: to feel a decent unconcern. At her back, Bertha's purry crying went
steadily on. What on earth did she cry for? She had certainly not heard
a word Mr. Strachey said. Laura fidgeted in her seat, and stole a
sideglance at Tilly's profile. She could not, really could not miss the
last scene of all, when, in masterly fashion, the Principal was
gathering the threads together. And so, feeling rather like "Peeping
Tom", she cautiously raised her eyes again, and this time managed to use
them without turning her head.

All other eyes were still charitably lowered. Several girls were crying
now, but without a sound. And, as the last, awful moments drew near,
even Bertha was hushed, and of all the odd hundreds of throats not one
dared to cough. Laura's heart began to palpitate, for she felt the
approach of the final climax, Mr. Strachey's periods growing ever slower
and more massive.

When, after a burst of eloquence which, the child felt, would not have
shamed a Bishop, the Principal drew himself up to his full height, and,
with uplifted arm, thundered forth: "Herewith, Miss Annie Johns, I
publicly expel you from the school! Leave it, now, this moment,
and never darken its doors again!"--when this happened, Laura was shot
through by an ecstatic quiver, such as she had felt once only in her
life before; and that was when a beautiful, golden-haired Hamlet, who
had held a Ballarat theatre entranced for a whole evening, fell dead by
Laertes' sword, to the rousing plaudits of the house. Breathing
unevenly, she watched, lynx-eyed, every inch of Annie Johns' progress:
watched her pick up her books, edge out of her seat and sidle through
the rows of desks; watched her walk to the door with short jerky
movements, mount the two steps that led to it, fumble with the handle,
turn it, and vanish from sight; and when it was all over, and there was
nothing more to see, she fell back in her seat with an audible sigh.

It was too late after this for the winding of the snaky line about the
streets and parks of East Melbourne, which constituted the boarders'
daily exercise. They were despatched to stretch their legs in the
garden. Here, as they walked round lawns and tennis-courts, they
discussed the main event of the afternoon, and were a little more
vociferous than usual, in an attempt to shake off the remembrance of a
very unpleasant half-hour.

"I bet you Sandy rather enjoyed kicking up that shindy."

"DID you see Puggy's boots again? Girls, he MUST take twelves!"

"And that old blubber of a Ziely's handkerchief! It was filthy. I told
you yesterday I was sure she never washed her neck."

Bertha, whose tears had dried as rapidly as sea-spray, gave Laura a dig
in the ribs. "What's up with you, old Tweedledum? You're as glum
as a lubra."

"No, I'm not."

"It's my belief that Laura was sorry for that pig," threw in Tilly.

"Indeed I wasn't!" said Laura indignantly.

"Sorry for a thief?"

"I tell you I WASN'T!"--and this was true. Among the divers feelings
Laura had experienced that afternoon, pity had not been included.

"If you want to be chums with such a mangy beast, you'd better go to
school in a lock-up."

"I don't know what my father'd say, if he knew I'd been in the same
class as a pickpocket," said the daughter of a minister from Brisbane.
"I guess he wouldn't have let me stop here a week."

Laura went one better. "My mother wouldn't have let me stop a day."

Those standing by laughed, and a girl from the Riverina said: "Oh, no,
of course not!" in a tone that made Laura wince and regret her
readiness.

Before tea, she had to practise. The piano stood in an outside
classroom, where no one could hear whether she was diligent or idle, and
she soon gave up playing and went to the window. Here, having dusted the
gritty sill with her petticoat, she leaned her chin on her two palms and
stared out into the sunbaked garden. It was empty now, and very still.
The streets that lay behind the high palings were deserted in the drowsy
heat; the only sound to be heard was a gentle tinkling to vespers in the
neighbouring Catholic Seminary. Leaning thus on her elbows, and
balancing herself first on her heels, then on her toes, Laura
went on, in desultory fashion, with the thoughts that had been set in
motion during the afternoon. She wondered where Annie Johns was now, and
what she was doing; wondered how she had faced her mother, and what her
father had said to her. All the rest of them had gone back at once to
their everyday life; Annie Johns alone was cut adrift. What would happen
to her? Would she perhaps be turned out of the house? . . . into the
streets?--and Laura had a lively vision of the guilty creature, in rags
and tatters, slinking along walls and sleeping under bridges, eternally
moved on by a ruthless London policeman (her only knowledge of extreme
destitution being derived from the woeful tale of "Little Jo").--And to
think that the beginning of it all had been the want of a trumpery
tram-fare. How safe the other girls were! No wonder they could allow
themselves to feel shocked and outraged; none of THEM knew what it was
not to have threepence in your pocket. While she, Laura . . . Yes, and
it must be this same incriminating acquaintance with poverty that made
her feel differently about Annie Johns and what she had done. For her
feelings HAD been different--there was no denying that. Did she now
think back over the half-hour spent in Number One, and act honest Injun
with herself, she had to admit that her companions' indignant and
horrified aversion to the crime had not been hers, let alone their
decent indifference towards the criminal. No, to be candid, she had been
deeply interested in the whole affair, had even managed to extract an
unseemly amount of entertainment from it. And that, of course, should
not have been. It was partly Mr. Strachey's fault, for making it
so dramatic; but none the less she genuinely despised herself, for
having such a queer inside.

"Pig--pig--pig!" she muttered under her breath, and wrinkled her nose
in a grimace.

The real reason of her pleasurable absorption was, she supposed, that
she had understood Annie Johns' motive better than anyone else. Well,
she had had no business to understand--that was the long and the short
of it: nice-minded girls found such a thing impossible, and turned
incuriously away. And her companions had been quick to recognise her
difference of attitude, or they would never have dared to accuse her of
sympathy with the thief, or to doubt her chorusing assertion with a
sneer. For them, the gap was not very wide between understanding and
doing likewise. And they were certainly right.--Oh! the last wish in
the world she had was to range herself on the side of the sinner; she
longed to see eye to eye with her comrades--if she had only known how
to do it. For there was no saying where it might lead you, if you
persisted in having odd and peculiar notions; you might even end by
being wicked yourself. Let her take a lesson in time from Annie's fate.
For, beginning perhaps with ideas that were no more unlike those of her
schoolfellows than were Laura's own, Annie was now a branded thief and
an outcast.--And the child's feelings, as she stood at the window, were
not very far removed from prayer. Had they found words, they would have
taken the form of an entreaty that she might be preserved from having
thoughts that were different from other people's; that she might be made
to feel as she ought to feel, in a proper, ladylike way--and
especially did she see a companion convicted of crime.

Below all this, in subconscious depths, a chord of fear seemed to have
been struck in her as well--the fear of stony faces, drooped lids, and
stretched, pointing fingers. For that night she started up, with a cry,
from dreaming that not Annie Johns but she was being expelled; that an
army of spear-like first fingers was marching towards her, and that, try
as she would, she could not get her limp, heavy legs to bear her to the
schoolroom door.

And this dream often returned. 




XIII.



ON her honourable promotion the following Christmas--she mounted two
forms this time--Laura was a thin, middle-sized girl of thirteen, who
still did not look her age. The curls had vanished. In their place hung
a long, dark plait, which she bound by choice with a red ribbon.

Tilly was the only one of her intimates who skipped a class with her;
hence she was thrown more exclusively than before on Tilly's
companionship; for it was a melancholy fact: if you were not in the same
class as the girl who was your friend, your interests and hers were soon
fatally sundered. On their former companions, Tilly and Laura, from
their new perch, could not but look down: the two had masters now for
all subjects; Euclid loomed large; Latin was no longer bounded by the
First Principia; and they fussed considerably, in the others' hearing,
over the difficulties of the little blue books that began: GALLIA EST
OMNIS DIVISA IN PARTES TRES. 

In the beginning, they held very close together; for their new fellows
were inclined to stand on their dignity with the pair of interlopers
from Class Two. They were all older than Tilly and Laura, and thought
themselves wiser: here were girls of sixteen and seventeen years of age,
some of whom would progress no farther along the high-road of education.
As for the boarders who sat in this form, they made up a jealous little
clique, and it was some time before the younger couple could
discover the secret bond.

Then, one morning, the two were sitting with a few others on the
verandah bench, looking over their lessons for the day. Mrs. Gurley had
snatched a moment's rest there, on her way to the secretary's office,
and as long as she allowed her withering eye to play upon things and
people, the girls conned their pages with a great show of industry. But
no sooner had she sailed away than Kate Horner leant forward and called
to Maria Morell, who was at the other end of the seat: "I say, Maria,
Genesis LI, 32."--She held an open Bible in her hand.

Maria Morell frowned caution. "Dash it, Kate, mind those kids!"

"Oh, they won't savvy."

But Laura's eyes were saucers of curiosity, for Tilly, who kept her long
lashes lowered, had given her a furious nudge. With a wink and a beck to
each other, the bigger girls got up and went away.

"I say, what did you poke me so hard for?" inquired Laura as she and
Tilly followed in their wake, at the clanging of the public prayer-bell.

"You soft, didn't you hear what she said?"

"Of course I did"--and Laura repeated the reference.

"Let's look it up then." Under cover of the prayer Tilly sought it out,
and together they bent their heads over it.

On this occasion, Tilly was more knowing than Laura; but on this alone;
for when Laura once grasped what they were driving at, she was as
nimble-witted as any.

Only a day or two later it was she who, in face of Kate and
Maria, invited Tilly to turn up chapter and verse.

Both the elder girls burst out laughing.

"By dad!" cried Kate Horner, and smacked her thigh. "This kid knows a
thing or two."

"You bet! I told you she wasn't born yesterday."--And Maria laid her
arm round Laura's shoulders.

Thus was Laura encouraged, put on her mettle; and soon there was no more
audacious Bible-reader in the class than she.

The girls were thrown thus upon the Book of Books for their contraband
knowledge, since it was the only frankly outspoken piece of literature
allowed within the College walls: the classics studied were rigidly
expurgated; the school library was kept so dull that no one over the age
of ten much cared to borrow a volume from it. And, by fair means or
unfair, it was necessary to obtain information on matters of sex; for
girls most of whom were well across the threshold of womanhood the
subject had an invincible fascination.

Such knowledge as they possessed was a strange jumble, picked up at
random: in one direction they were well primed; in another, supremely
ignorant. Thus, though they received lectures on what was
called "Physiology", and for these were required to commit to memory the
name of every bone and artery in the body, yet all that related to a
woman's special organs and chief natural function was studiously
ignored. The subject being thus chastely shrouded in mystery, they were
thrown back on guesswork and speculation--with the quaintest results.
The fancies woven by quite big girls, for instance, round the
physical feat of bringing a child into the world, would have supplied
material for a volume of fairytales. On many a summer evening at this
time, in a nook of the garden, heads of all shades might have been seen
pressed as close together as a cluster of settled bees; and like the
humming of bees, too, were the busy whisperings and subdued buzzes of
laughter that accompanied this hot discussion of the "how"--as a living
answer to which, each of them would probably some day walk the world.
Innumerable theories were afloat, one more fantastic than another; and
the wilder the conjecture, the greater was the respect and applause it
gained.

On the other hand, of less profitable information they had amassed a
goodly store. Girls who came from up-country could tell a lively tale of
the artless habits of the blacks; others, who were at home in mining
towns, described the doings in Chinese camps--those unavoidable
concomitants of gold-grubbing settlements; rhymes circulated that would
have staggered a back-blocker; while the governesses were without
exception, young and old, kindly and unkindly, laid under such
flamboyant suspicions as the poor ladies had, for certain, never heard
breathed--since their own impudent schooldays.

This dabbling in the illicit--it had little in common with the opener
grime of the ordinary schoolboy--did not even widen the outlook of
these girls. For it was something to hush up and keep hidden away, to
have qualms, even among themselves, about knowing; and, like all
knowledge that fungus-like shrinks from the sun, it was stunted and
unlovely. Their minds were warped by it, their vision was
distorted: viewed through its lens, the most natural human relations
appeared unnatural. Thus, not the primmest patterns of family life could
hope for mercy in their eyes; over the family, too, man, as read by
these young rigorists, was held to leave his serpent's trail of desire.

For out of it all rose the vague, crude picture of woman as the prey of
man. Man was animal, a composite of lust and cruelty, with no aim but
that of brutally taking his pleasure: something monstrous, yet to be
adored; annihilating, yet to be sought after; something to flee and, at
the same time, to entice, with every art at one's disposal.

As long as it was solely a question of clandestine knowledge and
ingenious surmisings, Laura went merrily with the rest: here no barrier
shut her off from her companions. Always a very inquisitive little girl,
she was now agog to learn new lore. Her mind, in this direction, was
like a clean but highly sensitised plate. And partly because of her
previous entire ignorance, partly because of her extreme receptiveness,
she soon outstripped her comrades, and before long, was one of the most
skilful improvisers of the group: a dexterous theorist: a wicked little
adept at innuendo.

But that was all; a step farther, and she ran her head against a stone
wall. For the invisible yeast that brought this ferment of natural
curiosity to pass, was the girls' intense interest in the opposite sex:
a penned-up interest that clamoured for an outlet; an interest which, in
the life of these prospective mothers, had already usurped the main
place. Laura, on the other hand, had so far had scant experience
of boys of a desirable age, nor any liking for such as she had known;
indeed she still held to her childish opinion that they were "silly"--
feckless creatures, in spite of their greater strength and size--or
downright disagreeable and antagonistic, like Godmother's Erwin and
Marmaduke. No breath of their possible dangerous fascination had
hitherto reached her. Hence, an experience that came her way, at the
beginning of the autumn was of the nature of an awakening. 




XIV.



"My cousin Bob's awfully gone on you."

Laura gaped at Tilly, in crimson disbelief. "But I've never spoken to
him!"

"Doesn't count. He's seen you in church."

"Go on!--you're stuffing."

"Word of honour!--And I've promised him to ask aunt if I can bring you
with me to lunch next Saturday."

Laura looked forward to this day with mixed feelings. She was flattered
at being invited to the big house in town where Tilly's relatives lived;
but she felt embarrassed at the prospect, and she had not the least idea
what a boy who was "gone" on you would expect you to be or to do. Bob was
a beautiful youth of seventeen, tall, and dark, and slender, with
milk-white teeth and Spanish eyes; and Laura's mouth dried up when she
thought of perhaps having to be sprightly or coquettish with him.

On the eventful morning Tilly came to her room while she was dressing,
and eyed her critically.

"Oh, I say, don't put on that brown hat . . . for mercy's sake! Bob
can't stand brown."

But the brown was Laura's best, and she demurred.

"Oh well, if you don't care to look nice, you know . . ."

Of course she did; she was burning to. She even accepted the loan of a
sash from her friend, because "Bob loves blue"; and went out feeling odd
and unlike herself, in her everyday hat and borrowed plumes.

The Aunt, a pleasant, youthful-looking lady, called for them in a
white-hooded wagonette, and set them down at the house with a playful
warning.

"Now don't get up to any mischief, you two!"

"No fear!" was Tilly's genial response, as Aunt and cab drove off.

They were going to "do the block", Tilly explained, and would meet Bob
there; but they must first make sure that the drive had not disarranged
their hair or the position of their hats; and she led the way to her
aunt's bedroom.

Laura, though she had her share of natural vanity, was too impatient to
do more than cast a perfunctory glance at her reflected self. At this
period of her life when a drive in a hired cab was enough of a novelty
to give her pleasure, a day such as the one that lay before her filled
her with unbounded anticipation.

She fidgeted from one leg to another while she waited. For Tilly was in
no hurry to be gone: she prinked and finicked, making lavish use, after
the little swing-glass at school, of the big mirror with its movable
wings; she examined her teeth, pulled down her under-lids, combed her
eyebrows, twisted her neck this way and that, in an endeavour to view
her person from every angle; she took liberties with perfumes and
brushes: was, in short, blind and deaf to all but the perfecting of
herself--this rather mannish little self, which, despite a most womanly
plumpness, affected a boyish bonhomie, and emphasised the role by
wearing a stiff white collar and cuffs.

Laura was glad when she at last decided that she would "do", and
when they stepped out into the radiant autumn morning.

"What a perfectly scrumptious day!"

"Yes, bully.--I say, IS my waist all right?"

"Quite right. And ever so small."

"I know. I gave it an extra pull-in.--Now if only we're lucky enough to
get hold of a man or two we know!"

The air, Australian air, met them like a prickling champagne: it was
incredibly crisp, pure, buoyant. From the top of the eastern hill the
spacious white street sloped speedily down, to run awhile in a hollow,
then mount again at the other end. Where the two girls turned into it,
it was quiet; but the farther they descended, the fuller it grew--
fuller of idlers like themselves, out to see and to be seen.

Laura cocked her chin; she had not had a like sense of freedom since
being at school. And besides, was not a boy, a handsome boy, waiting for
her, and expecting her? This was the CLOU of the day, the end for which
everything was making; yet of such stuff was Laura that she would have
felt relieved, could the present moment have been spun out indefinitely.
The state of suspense was very pleasant to her.

As for Tilly, that young lady was swinging the shoulders atop of the
little waist in a somewhat provocative fashion, only too conscious of
the grey-blueness of her fine eyes, and the modish cut of her clothes.
She had a knack which seemed to Laura both desirable and unattainable:
that of appearing to be engrossed in glib chat with her companion, while
in reality she did not hear a word Laura said, and ogled
everyone who passed, out of the tail of her eye.

They reached the "block", that strip of Collins Street which forms the
fashionable promenade. Here the road was full of cabs and carriages, and
there was a great crowd on the pavement. The girls progressed but
slowly. People were meeting their friends, shopping, changing books at
the library, eating ices at the confectioner's, fruit at the big
fruit-shop round the corner. There were a large number of high-collared
young dudes, some Trinity and Ormond men with coloured hatbands, ladies
with little parcels dangling from their wrists, and countless
schoolgirls like themselves. Tilly grew momentarily livelier; her big
eyes pounced, hawk-like, on every face she met, and her words to Laura
became more disjointed than before. Finally, her efforts were crowned
with success: she managed, by dint of glance and smile combined, to
unhook a youth of her acquaintance from a group at a doorway, and to
attach him to herself.

In high good humour now that her aim was accomplished, she set about the
real business of the morning--that of promenading up and down. She had
no longer even a feigned interest left for Laura, and the latter walked
beside the couple a lame and unnecessary third. Though she kept a keen
watch for Bob, she could not discover him, and her time was spent for
the most part in dodging people, and in catching up with her companions
for it was difficult to walk three abreast in the crowd.

Then she saw him--and with what an unpleasant shock. If only Tilly did
not see him, too!

But no such luck was hers. "Look out, there's Bob," nudged Tilly
almost at once.

Alas! there was no question of his waiting longingly for her to appear.
He was walking with two ladies, and laughing and talking. He raised his
hat to his cousin and her friend, but did not disengage himself, and
passing them by disappeared in the throng.

Behind her hand Tilly buzzed: "One of those Woodwards is awfully sweet on
him. I bet he can't get loose."

This was a drop of comfort. But as, at the next encounter, he still did
not offer to join them--could it, indeed, be expected that he would
prefer her company to that of the pretty, grown-up girls he was with?--
as he again sidled past, Tilly, who had given him one of her most
vivacious sparkles, turned and shot a glance at Laura's face.

"For pity's sake, look a little more amiable, or he won't come at all."

Laura felt more like crying; her sunshine was intercepted, her good
spirits were quenched; had she had her will, she would have turned tail
and gone straight back to school. She had not wanted Bob, had never
asked him to be 'gone' on her, and if she had now to fish for him, into
the bargain...However there was no help for it; the thing had to be gone
through with; and, since Tilly seemed disposed to lay the blame of his
lukewarmness at her door, Laura glued her mouth, the next time Bob hove
in sight, into a feeble smile.

Soon afterwards he came up to them. His cousin had an arch greeting in
readiness.

"Well, you've been doing a pretty mash, you have!" she cried,
and jogged him with her elbow. "No wonder you'd no eyes for poor us. What
price Miss Woodward's gloves this morning!"--at which Bob laughed,
looked sly, and tapped his breast pocket.

It was time to be moving homewards. Tilly and her beau led the way. "For
we know you two would rather be alone. Now, Bob, not too many
sheep's-eyes, please!"

Bob smiled, and let fly a wicked glance at Laura from under his dark
lashes. Dropping behind, they began to mount the hill. Now was the
moment, felt Laura, to say something very witty, or pert, or clever; and
a little pulse in her throat beat hard, as she furiously racked her
brains. Oh, for just a morsel of Tilly's loose-tonguedness! One after
the other she considered and dismissed: the pleasant coolness of the
morning, the crowded condition of the street, even the fact of the next
day being Sunday--ears and cheeks on fire, meanwhile, at her own
slow-wittedness. And Bob smiled. She almost hated him for that smile. It
was so assured, and withal so disturbing. Seen close at hand his teeth
were whiter, his eyes browner than she had believed. His upper lip, too,
was quite dark; and he fingered it incessantly, as he waited for her to
make the onslaught.

But he waited in vain; and when they had walked a whole street-block in
this mute fashion, it was he who broke the silence.

"Ripping girls, those Woodwards," he said, and seemed to be remembering
their charms.

"Yes, they looked very nice," said Laura in a small voice, and
was extremely conscious of her own thirteen years.

"Simply stunning! Though May's so slender--May's the pretty one--and
has such a jolly figure . . . I believe I could span her waist with my
two hands . . . her service is just AI--at tennis I mean."

"Is it really?" said Laura wanly, and felt unutterably depressed at the
turn the conversation was taking.--Her own waist was coarse, her
knowledge of tennis of the slightest.

"Ra-THER! Overhand, with a cut on it--she plays with a 14-oz. racquet.
And she has a back drive, too, by Jove, that--you play, of course?"

"Oh, yes." Laura spoke up manfully; but prayed that he would not press
his inquiries further. At this juncture his attention was diverted by
the passing of a fine tandem; and as soon as he brought it back to her
again, she said: 'You're at Trinity, aren't you?'--which was finesse;
for she knew he wasn't.

"Well, yes . . . all but," answered Bob well pleased. "I start in this
winter."

"How nice!"

There was another pause; then she blurted out: "We church girls always
wear Trinity colours at the boat-race."

She hoped from her heart, this might lead him to say that he would look
out for her there; but he did nothing of the kind. His answer was to the
effect that this year they jolly well expected to knock Ormond into a
cocked hat.

Lunch threatened to be formidable. To begin with, Laura, whose natural,
easy frankness had by this time all but been successfully
educated out of her, Laura was never shyer with strangers than at a
meal, where every word you said could be listened to by a tableful of
people. Then, too, her vis-a-vis was a small sharp child of five or six,
called Thumbby, or Thumbkin, who only removed her bead-like eyes from
Laura's face to be saucy to her father. And, what was worse, the Uncle
turned out to be a type that struck instant terror into Laura: a
full-fledged male tease.--He was, besides, very hairy of face, and
preternaturally solemn.

No sooner had he drawn in his chair to the table than he began. Lifting
his head and thrusting out his chin, he sniffed the air in all
directions with a moving nose--just as a cat does. Everyone looked at
him in surprise. Tilly, who sat next him, went pink.

"What is it, dear?" his wife at last inquired in a gentle voice; for it
was evident that he was not going to stop till asked why he did it.

"Mos' extraor'nary smell!" he replied. "Mother, d'you know, I could take
my appledavy some one has been using my scent."

"Nonsense, Tom."

"Silly pa!" said the little girl.

Ramming his knuckles into his eyes, he pretended to cry at his
daughter's rebuke; then bore down on Laura.

"D'you know, Miss Ra . . . Ra . . . Rambotham"--he made as if he could
not get her name out--"d'you know that I'm a great man for scent? Fact.
I take a bath in it every morning."

Laura smiled uncertainly, fixed always by the child.

"Fact, I assure you. Over the tummy, up to the chin.--Now,
who's been at it? For it's my opinion I shan't have enough left to
shampoo my eyebrows.--Bob, is it you?"

"Don't be an ass, pater."

"Cut me some bread, Bob, please," said Tilly hastily.

"Mos' extraor'nary thing!" persisted the Uncle. "Or--good Lord, mother,
can it be my monthly attack of D.T.'s beginning already? They're not
due, you know, till next week, Monday, five o'clock."

"Dear, DON'T be so silly. Besides it's my scent, not yours. And anyone
is welcome to it."

"Well, well, let's call in the cats!--By the way, Miss Ra . . . Ra . . .
Rambotham, are you aware that this son of mine is a professed
lady-killer?"

Laura and Bob went different shades of crimson.

"Why has she got so red?" the child asked her mother, in an audible
whisper.

"Oh, CHUCK it, pater!" murmured Bob in disgust.

"Fact, I assure you. Put not your trust in Robert! He's always on with
the new love before he's off with the old. You ask him whose glove he's
still cherishing in the pocket next his heart."

Bob pushed his plate from him and, for a moment, seemed about to leave
the table. Laura could not lift her eyes. Tilly chewed in angry silence.

Here, however, the child made a diversion.

"You're a lady-kilda yourself, pa."

"Me, Thumbkin?--Mother, d'you hear that?--Then it's the whiskers,
Thumbby. Ladies love whiskers--or a fine drooping moustache, like my
son Bob's." He sang: "'Oh, oh, the ladies loved him so!'"

"Tom, dear, DO be quiet."

"Tom, Tom, the piper's son!" chirped Thumbby.

"Well, well, let's call in the cats!"--which appeared to be his way of
changing the subject.

It seemed, after this, as though the remainder of lunch might pass off
without further hitch. Then however and all of a sudden, while he was
peeling an apple, this dreadful man said, as though to himself: "Ra . . .
Ra . . . Rambotham. Now where have I heard that name?"

"Wa . . . Wa . . . Wamboffam!" mocked Thumbkin.

"Monkey, if you're so sharp you'll cut yourself!--Young lady, do you
happen to come from Warrenega?" he asked Laura, when Thumbkin's excited
chirrup of: "I'll cut YOU, pa, into little bits!" had died away.

Ready to sink through the floor, Laura replied that she did.

"Then I've the pleasure of knowing your mother.--Tall dark woman, isn't
she?"

Under the table, Laura locked the palms of her hands and stemmed her
feet against the floor. Was here, now, before them all, and Bob in
particular, the shameful secret of the embroidery to come to light? She
could hardly force her lips to frame an answer.

Her confusion was too patent to be overlooked. Above her lowered head,
signs passed between husband and wife, and soon afterwards the family
rose from the table.

But Tilly was so obviously sulky that the tense could not let
her escape him thus.

He cried: "For God's sake, Tilly, stand still! What on earth have you got
on your back?"

Tilly came from up-country and her thoughts leapt fearfully to scorpions
and tarantulas. Affrighted, she tried to peer over her shoulder, and
gave a preliminary shriek. "Gracious!--whatever is it?"

"Hold on!" He approached her with the tongs; the next moment to
ejaculate: "Begad, it's not a growth, it's a bustle!" and as he spoke he
tweaked the place where a bustle used to be worn.

Even Bob had to join in the ensuing boohoo, which went on and on till
Laura thought the Uncle would fall down in a fit. Then for the third
time he invited those present to join him in summoning the cats,
murmured something about "humping his bluey", and went out into the hall,
where they heard him swinging Thumbby "round the world".

It was all the Aunt could do to mollify Tilly, who was enraged to the
point of tears. "I've never worn a bustle in my life! Uncle's a perfect
FOOL! I've never met such a fool as he is!"

Still boiling, she disappeared to nurse her ruffled temper in private;
and she remained absent from the room for over half an hour. During this
time Laura and Bob were alone together. But even less than before came
of their intercourse: Bob, still smarting from his father's banter, was
inclined to be stand-offish, as though afraid Laura might take liberties
with him after having been made to look so small; Laura, rendered
thoroughly unsure to begin with, by the jocular tone of the
luncheon-table, had not recovered from the shock of hearing her
parentage so bluffly disclosed. And since, at this time, her idea of the
art of conversation was to make jerky little remarks which led nowhere,
or to put still more jerky questions, Bob was soon stifling yawns, and
not with the best success. He infected Laura; and there the two of them
sat, doing their best to appear unconscious of the terrible spasms
which, every few seconds, distorted their faces. At last Bob could stand
it no longer and bolted from the room.

Laura was alone, and seemed to be forgotten The minutes ticked by, and
no one came--or no one but a little grey kitten, which arrived as if
from nowhere, with a hop and a skip. She coaxed the creature to her lap,
where it joined head to tail and went to sleep. And there she sat, in
the gloomy, overfilled drawing-room, and stroked the kitten, which
neither cracked stupid jokes nor required her to strain her wits to make
conversation.

When at length Tilly came back, she expressed a rather acid surprise at
Bob's absence, and went to look for him; Laura heard them whispering and
laughing in the passage. On their return to the drawing-room it had been
decided that the three of them should go for a walk. As the sky was
overcast and the girls had no umbrellas, Bob carried a big one belonging
to the Uncle. Tilly called this a "family umbrella"; and the jokes that
were extracted from the pair of words lasted the walkers on the whole of
their outward way; lasted so long that Laura, who was speedily finished
with her contribution, grew quite stupefied with listening to the other
two.

Collins Street was now as empty as a bush road. The young people
went into Bourke Street, where, for want of something better to do, they
entered the Eastern Market and strolled about inside. The noise that
rose from the livestock, on ground floor and upper storey, was
ear-splitting: pigs grunted; cocks crowed, turkeys gobbled, parrots
shrieked; while rough human voices echoed and re-echoed under the lofty
roof. There was a smell, too, an extraordinary smell, composed of all
the individual smells of all these living things: of fruit and
vegetables, fresh and decayed; of flowers, and butter, and grain; of
meat, and fish, and strong cheeses; of sawdust sprinkled with water, and
freshly wet pavements--one great complicated smell, the piquancy of
which made Laura sniff like a spaniel. But after a very few minutes
Tilly, whose temper was still short, called it a "vile stink" and clapped
her handkerchief to her nose, and so they hurried out, past many
enticing little side booths hidden in dark corners on the ground floor,
such as a woman without legs, a double-headed calf, and the like.

Outside it had begun to rain; they turned into a Waxworks Exhibition.
This was a poor show, and they were merely killing time when the
announcement caught their eye that a certain room was open to "Married
People Only". The quips and jokes this gave rise to again were as
unending as those about the umbrella; and Laura grew so tired of them,
and of pretending to find them funny, that her temper also began to give
way; and she eased her feelings by making the nippy mental note on her
companions, that jokes were evidently "in the blood".

When they emerged, it was time for the girls to return to
school. They took a hansom, Bob accompanying them. As they drove, Laura
sitting sandwiched between the other two, it came over her with a rush
what a miserable failure the day had been. A minute before, her spirits
had given a faint flicker, for Bob had laid his arm along the back of
the seat. Then she saw that he had done this just to pull at the little
curls that grew on Tilly's neck. She was glad when the cab drew up, when
Tilly ostentatiously took the fat half-crown from her purse, and Bob
left them at the gate with a: "Well, so long, ladies!"

The boarders spent the evening in sewing garments for charity. Laura had
been at work for weeks on a coarse, red flannel petticoat, and as a rule
was under constant reprimand for her idleness. On this night, having
separated herself from Tilly, she sat down beside a girl with a very
long plait of hair and small, narrow eyes, who went by the name of
"Chinky". Chinky was always making up to her, and could be relied on to
cover her silence. Laura sewed away, with bent head and pursed lips, and
was so engrossed that the sole rebuke she incurred had to do with her
diligence.

Miss Chapman exclaimed in horror at her stiffly outstretched arm.

"How CAN you be so vulgar, Laura? To sew with a thread as long as that!" 




XV.



For days Laura avoided even thinking of this unlucky visit. Privately,
she informed herself that Tilly's wealthy relations were a "rude, stupid
lot"; and, stuffing her fingers in her ears, memorised pages with a
dispatch that deadened thought.

When, however, the first smart had passed and she was able to go back on
what had happened, a soreness at her own failure was the abiding result:
and this, though Tilly mercifully spared her the "dull as ditchwater",
that was Bob's final verdict.--But the fact that the invitation was not
repeated told Laura enough.

Her hurt was not relieved by the knowledge that she had done nothing to
deserve it. For she had never asked for Bob's notice or admiration, had
never thought of him but as a handsome cousin of Tilly's who sat in a
distant pew at St Stephen's-on-the-Hill; and the circumstance that,
because he had singled her out approvingly, she was expected to worm
herself into his favour, seemed to her of a monstrous injustice. But,
all the same, had she possessed the power to captivate him, she would
cheerfully have put her pride in her pocket. For, having once seen him
close at hand, she knew how desirable he was. Having been the object of
glances from those liquid eyes, of smiles from those blanched-almond
teeth, she found it hard to dismiss them from her mind. How the other
girls would have boasted of it, had they been chosen by such a
one as Bob!--they who, for the most part, were satisfied with
blotchy-faced, red-handed youths, whose lean wrists dangled from their
retreating sleeves. But then, too, they would have known how to keep
him. Oh, those lucky other girls!

"I say, Chinky, what do you do when a boy's gone on you?"

She would have shrunk from putting an open question of this kind to her
intimates; but Chinky, could be trusted. For she garnered the few words
Laura vouchsafed her, as gratefully as Lazarus his crumbs; and a mark of
confidence, such as this, would sustain her for days.

But she had no information to give.

"Me? . . . why, nothing. Boys are dirty, horrid, conceited creatures."

In her heart Laura was at one with this judgment; but it was not to the
point.

"Yes, but s'pose one was awfully sweet on you and you rather liked him?"

"Catch me! If one came bothering round me, I'd do this" and she set her
ten outstretched fingers to her nose and waggled them.

And yet Chinky was rather pretty, in her way.

Maria Morell, cautiously tapped, threw back her head and roared with
laughter.

"Bless its little heart! Does it want to know?--say, Laura, who's your
mash?"

"No one," answered Laura stoutly. "I only asked. For I guess you KNOW,
Maria."

"By gosh, you bet I do!" cried Maria, italicising the words in her
vehemence. "Well, look here, Kiddy, if a chap's sweet on me I let him be
sweet, my dear, and that's all--till he's run to barley-sugar.
What I don't let him savvy is, whether I care a twopenny damn for him.
Soon as you do that, it's all up. Just let him hang round, and throw
sheep's-eyes, till he's as soft as a jellyfish, and when he's right down
ripe, roaring mad, go off and pretend to do a mash with some one else.
That's the way to glue him, chicken."

"But you don't have anything of him that way," objected Laura.

Maria laughed herself red in the face. "What'n earth more d'you want?
Why, he'll pester you with letters, world without end, and look as black
as your shoe if you so much as wink at another boy. As for a kiss, if he
gets a chance of one he'll take it you can bet your bottom dollar on
that."

"But you never get to know him!"

"Oh, hang it, Laura, but you ARE rich! What d'you think one has a boy
for, I'd like to know. To parlezvous about old Shepherd's sermons? You
loony, it's only for getting lollies, and letters, and the whole dashed
fun of the thing. If you go about too much with one, you soon have to
fake an interest in his rotten old affairs. Or else just hold your
tongue and let him blow. And that's dull work. D'you think it ever comes
up a fellow's back to talk to you about your new Sunday hat! If it does,
you can teach your grandmother to suck eggs."

But, despite this wisdom, Laura could not determine how Maria would have
acted had she stood in her shoes.

And then, too, the elder girl had said nothing about another side of the
question, had not touched on the sighs and simpers, the winged
glances, and drooped, provocative lids--all the thousand and one
fooleries, in short, which Laura saw her and others employ. There was a
regular machinery of invitation and encouragement to be set in motion:
for, before it was safe to ignore a wooer and let him dangle, as Maria
advised, you had first to make quite sure he wished to nibble your bait.
--And it was just in this elementary science that Laura broke down.

Looking round her, she saw mainly experts. To take the example nearest
at hand: there was Monsieur Legros, the French master; well, Maria could
twist him round her little finger. She only needed to pout her thick,
red lips, or to give a coquettish twist to her plump figure, or to ogle
him with her fine, bold, blue eyes, and the difficult questions in the
lesson were sure to pass her by.--Once she had even got ten extra marks
added to an examination paper, in this easy fashion. Whereas, did she,
Laura, try to imitate Maria, venture to pout or to smirk, it was ten to
one she would be rebuked for impertinence. No, she got on best with the
women-teachers, to whom red lips and a full bust meant nothing; while
the most elderly masters could not be relied on to be wholly impartial,
where a pair of magnificent eyes was concerned. Even Mr. Strachey, the
unapproachable, had been known, on running full tilt into a pretty
girl's arms in an unlit passage, to be laughingly confused. 

Laura was not, of course, the sole outsider in these things; sprinkled
through the College were various others, older, too, than she, who by
reason of demureness of temperament, or immersion in their work, stood
aloof. But they were lost in the majority, and, as it chanced,
none of them belonged to Laura's circle. Except Chinky--and Chinky did
not count. So, half-fascinated, half-repelled, Laura set to studying her
friends with renewed zeal. She could not help admiring their proficiency
in the art of pleasing, even though she felt a little abashed by the
open pride they took in their growing charms. There was Bertha, for
instance, Bertha who had one of the nicest minds of them all; and yet
how frankly gratified she was, by the visible rounding of her arms and
the curving of her bust. She spoke of it to Laura with a kind of awe;
and her voice seemed to give hints of a coming mystery. Tilly, on the
other hand, lived to reduce her waist-measure: she was always sucking at
lemons, and she put up with the pains of indigestion as well as a red
tip to her nose; for no success in school meant as much to Tilly as the
fact that she had managed to compress herself a further quarter of an
inch, no praise on the part of her teachers equalled the compliments
this earned her from dressmaker and tailor. As for Inez, who had not
only a pretty face but was graceful and slender-limbed as a greyhound,
Inez no longer needed to worry over artificial charms, or to dwell
self-consciously on her development; serious admirers were not lacking,
and with one of these, a young man some eight years older than herself,
she had had for the past three months a sort of understanding. For her,
as for so many others, the time she had still to spend at school was as
purgatory before paradise. To top all, one of the day-scholars in
Laura's class was actually engaged to be married; and in no boy-and-girl
fashion, but to a doctor who lived and practised in Emerald Hill: he
might sometimes be seen, from a peephole under the stairs,
waiting to escort her home from school. This fiancee was looked up to by
the class with tremendous reverence, as one set apart, oiled and
anointed. You really could not treat her as a comrade her, who had
reached the goal. For this WAS the goal; and the thoughts of all were
fixed, with an intentness that varied only in degree, on the great
consummation which, as planned in these young minds, should come to pass
without fail directly the college-doors closed behind them.--And here
again Laura was a heretic. For she could not contemplate the future that
was to be hers when she had finished her education, but with a feeling
of awe: it was still so distant as to be one dense blue haze; it was so
vast, that thinking of it took your breath away: there was room in it
for the most wonderful miracles that had ever happened; it might contain
anything--from golden slippers to a Jacob's ladder, by means of which
you would scale the skies; and with these marvellous perhapses awaiting
you, it was impossible to limit your hopes to one single event, which,
though it saved you from derision, would put an end, for ever, to all
possible, exciting contingencies.

These thoughts came and went. In the meantime, despite her ape-like
study of her companions, she remained where the other sex was concerned
a disheartening failure. A further incident drove this home anew.

One Saturday afternoon, those boarders who had not been invited out were
taken to see a cricket-match. They were a mere handful, eight or nine at
most, and Miss Snodgrass alone was in charge. All her friends [P.154]
being away that day, Laura had to bring up the rear with the governess
and one of the little girls. Though their walk led them through pleasant
parks, she was glad when it was over; for she did not enjoy Miss
Snodgrass's company. She was no match for this crisply sarcastic
governess, and had to be the whole time on her guard. For Miss Snodgrass
was not only a great talker, but had also a very inquiring mind, and
seemed always trying to ferret out just those things you did not care to
tell--such as the size of your home, or the social position you
occupied in the township where you lived.

Arrived at the cricket ground, they climbed the Grand Stand and sat down
in one of the back rows, to the rear of the other spectators. Before
them sloped a steep bank of hats gaily-flowered and ribbon-banded hats--
of light and dark shoulders, of alert, boyish profiles and pale, pretty
faces--a representative gathering of young Australia, bathed in the
brilliant March light.

Laura's seat was between her two companions, and it was here the malheur
occurred. During an interval in the game, one of the girls asked the
governess's leave to speak to her cousin; and thereupon a shy lad was
the target for twenty eyes. He was accompanied by a friend, who, in
waiting, sat down just behind Laura. This boy was addressed by Miss
Snodgrass; but he answered awkwardly, and after a pause, Laura felt
herself nudged.

"You can speak to him, Laura," whispered Miss Snodgrass.--She evidently
thought Laura waited only for permission, to burst in.

Laura had already fancied that the boy looked at her with
interest. This was not improbable; for she had her best hat on, which
made her eyes seem very dark--"like sloes," Chinky said, though neither
of them had any clear idea what a sloe was.

Still, a prompting to speech invariably tied her tongue. She half
turned, and stole an uneasy peep at the lad. He might be a year older
than herself; he had a frank, sunburnt face, blue eyes, and almost white
flaxen hair. She took heart of grace.

"I s'pose you often come here?" she ventured at last.

"You bet!" said the boy; but kept his eyes where they were on the pitch.

"Cricket's a lovely game . . . don't you think so?"

Now he looked at her; but doubtfully, from the height of his fourteen
male years; and did not reply.

"Do you play?"

This was a false move, she felt it at once. Her question seemed to
offend him. "Should rather think I did!" he answered with a haughty air.

Weakly she hastened to retract her words. "Oh, I meant much--if you
played much?"

"Comes to the same thing I guess," said the boy--he had not yet reached
the age of obligatory politeness.

"It must be splendid"--here she faltered--"fun."

But the boy's thoughts had wandered: he was making signs to a friend
down in the front of the Stand.--Miss Snodgrass seemed to repress a
smile.

Here, however, the little girl at Laura's side chimed in. "I think
cricket's awful rot," she announced, in a cheepy voice.

Now what was it, Laura asked herself, in these words, or in the
tone in which they were said, that at once riveted the boy's attention.
For he laughed quite briskly as he asked; "What's a kid like you know
about it?"

"Jus' as much as I want to. An' my sister says so 's well."

"Get along with you! Who's your sister?"

"Ooh!--wouldn't you like to know? You've never seen her in Scots'
Church on Sundays I s'pose--oh, no!"

"By jingo!--I should say I have. An' you, too. You're the little sister
of that daisy with the simply ripping hair."

The little girl actually made a grimace at him, screwing up her
nose. "Yes, you can be civil now, can't you?"

"My aunt, but she's a tip-topper--your sister!"

"You go to Scots' Church then, do you?" hazarded Laura, in an attempt to
re-enter the conversation.

"Think I could have seen her if I didn't?" retorted the boy, in the tone
of: "What a fool question!" He also seemed to have been on the point of
adding: "Goose," or "Sillybones."

The little girl giggled. "She's church"--by which she meant
episcopalian.

"Yes, but I don't care a bit which I go to," Laura hastened to explain,
fearful lest she should be accounted a snob by this dissenter. The boy,
however, was so faintly interested in her theological wobblings that,
even as she spoke, he had risen from his seat; and the next moment
without another word he went away.--This time Miss Snodgrass laughed
outright.

Laura stared, with blurred eyes, at the white-clad forms that
began to dot the green again. Her lids smarted. She did not dare to put
up her fingers to squeeze the gathering tears away, and just as she was
wondering what she should do if one was inconsiderate enough to roll
down her cheek, she heard a voice behind her.

"I say, Laura . . . Laura!"--and there was Chinky, in her best white
hat.

"I'm sitting with my aunt just a few rows down; but I couldn't make you
look. Can I come in next to you for a minute?"

"If you like," said Laura and, because she had to sniff a little, very
coldly: Chinky had no doubt also been a witness of her failure.

The girl squeezed past and shared her seat. "I don't take up much room."

Laura feigned to be engrossed in the game. But presently she felt her
bare wrist touched, and Chinky said in her ear: "What pretty hands you've
got, Laura!"

She buried them in her dress, at this. She found it in the worst
possible taste of Chinky to try to console her.

"Wouldn't you like to wear a ring on one of them?"

"No, thanks," said Laura, in the same repellent way.

"Truly? I'd love to give you one."

"You? Where would YOU get it?"

"Would you wear it, if I did?"

"Let me see it first," was Laura's graceless reply, as she returned to
her stony contemplation of the great sunlit expanse.

She was sure Miss Snodgrass, on getting home, would laugh with
the other governesses over what had occurred--if not with some of the
girls. The story would leak out and come to Tilly's ears; and Tilly
would despise her more than she did already. So would all the rest. She
was branded, as it was, for not having a single string to her bow. Now,
it had become plain to her that she could never hope for one; for, when
it came to holding a boy's attention for five brief minutes, she could
be put in the shade by a child of eight years old. 




XVI.



Since, however, it seemed that some one had to be loved if you were to
be able to hold up your head with the rest, then it was easier,
infinitely easier, to love the curate. With the curate, no personal
contact was necessary--and that was more than could be said even of the
music-masters. In regard to them, pressures of the hand, as well as
countless nothings, were expected and enacted, in the bi-weekly reports
you rendered to those of your friends who followed the case. Whereas for
the curate it was possible to simulate immense ardour, without needing
either to humble your pride or call invention to your aid: the worship
took place from afar. The curate was, moreover, no unworthy object;
indeed he was quite attractive, in a lean, ascetic fashion, with his
spiritual blue eyes, and the plain gold cross that dangled from his
black watch-ribbon--though, it must be admitted, when he preached, and
grew greatly in earnest, his mouth had a way of opening as if it meant
to swallow the church--and Laura was by no means his sole admirer.
Several of her friends had a fancy for him, especially as his wife, who
was much older than he, was a thin, elderly lady with a tired face.

And now, by her own experience, Laura was led to the following
discovery: that, if you imagine a thing with sufficient force, you can
induce your imagining to become reality. By dint of pretending that it
was so, she gradually worked herself up into an attack of love,
which was genuine enough to make her redden when Mr. Shepherd was spoken
of, and to enjoy being teased about him. And since, at any rate when in
church, she was a sincerely religious little girl, and one to whom--
notwithstanding her protested indifference to forms of worship--such
emotional accessories as flowers, and music, and highly coloured
vestments made a strong appeal, her feelings for Mr. Shepherd were soon
mystically jumbled up with her piety: the eastward slant for the Creed,
and the Salutation at the Sacred Name, seemed not alone homage due to
the Deity, but also a kind of minor homage offered to and accepted by
Mr. Shepherd; the school-pew being so near the chancel that it was not
difficult to believe yourself the recipient of personal notice.

At home during the winter holidays, his name chanced to cross her lips.
Straightway it occurred to Mother that he was the nephew of an old
friend whom she had long lost sight of letters passed between Warrenega
and Melbourne, and shortly after her return to the College Laura learnt
that she was to spend the coming monthly holiday at Mr. Shepherd's
house.

In the agitated frame of mind this threw her into, she did not know
whether to be glad or sorry. Her feelings had, of late, got into such a
rapt and pious muddle that it seemed a little like being asked out to
meet God. On the other hand, she could not but see that the circumstance
would raise her standing at school, immeasurably. And this it did. As
soon as the first shock had passed she communicated the fact freely, and
was shrewd enough not to relate how the invitation had come about,
allowing it to be put down, as her friends were but too ready to
do, to the effect produced on the minister by her silent adoration.

The Church girls were wild with envy. Laura was dragged up the garden
with an arm thrust through each of hers. Mr. Shepherd's holy calling and
spiritual appearance stood him in small stead here; and the blackest
interpretation was put on the matter of the visit.

"Nice things you'll be up to, the pair of you--oh, my aunt!" ejaculated
Maria.

"I think it's beastly risky her going at all," filled in Kate Horner,
gobbling a little; for her upper lip overhung the lower. "These saints
are oftenest bad 'uns."

"Yes, and with an Aunt Sally like that for a wife.--Now look here,
Kiddy, just you watch you're not left alone with him in the dark."

"And mind, you've got to tell us everything--every blessed thing!"

Laura was called for, on Saturday morning, by the maiden sister of her
divinity. Miss Isabella Shepherd was a fair, short, pleasant young
woman, with a nervous, kindly smile, and a congenital inability to look
you in the face when speaking to you; so that the impression she made
was that of a perpetual friendliness, directed, however, not at you, but
at the inanimate objects around you. Laura was so tickled by this
peculiarity, which she spied the moment she entered the waiting-room,
that at first she could take in nothing else. Afterwards, when the
novelty had worn off, she subjected her companion to a closer scrutiny,
and from the height of thirteen years had soon taxed her with being a
frumpish old maid; the valiant but feeble efforts Miss Isabella
made to entertain her, as they walked along, only strengthening her in
this opinion.

Not very far from the College they entered a small, two-storied stone
house, which but for an iron railing and a shrub or two gave right on
the street.

"Will you come up to the study?" said Miss Isabella, smiling warmly, and
ogling the door-mat. "I'm sure Robby would like to see you at once."

Robby? Her saint called Robby?--Laura blushed.

But at the head of the stairs they were brought up short by Mrs.
Shepherd, who, policeman-like, raised a warning hand.

"Hssh . . . ssh . . . sh!" she breathed, and simultaneously half-closed
her eyes, as if imitating slumber. "Robby has just lain down for a few
minutes. How are you, dear?"--in a whisper. "I'm so pleased to see
you."

She looked even more faded than in church. But she was very kind, and in
the bedroom insisted on getting out a clean towel for Laura.

"Now we'll go down.--It's only lunch to-day, for Robby has a
confirmation-class immediately afterwards, and doesn't care to eat
much."

They descended to the dining-room, but though the meal was served, did
not take their seats: they stood about, in a kind of anxious silence.
This lasted for several minutes; then, heavy footsteps were heard
trampling overhead: these persisted, but did not seem to advance, and at
length there was a loud, impatient shout of: "Maisie!"

Both ladies were perceptibly flurried. "He can't find something," said
Miss Isabella in a stage-whisper; while Mrs. Shepherd, taking
the front of her dress in both hands, set out for the stairs with the
short, clumsy jerks which, in a woman, pass for running.

A minute or two later the origin of the fluster came in, looking, it
must be confessed, not much more amiable than his voice had been: he was
extremely pale, too, his blue eyes had hollow rings round them, and
there were tired wrinkles on his forehead. However he offered Laura a
friendly hand which she took with her soul in her eyes.

"Well, and so this is the young lady fresh from the halls of learning,
is it?" he asked, after a mumbled grace, as he carved a rather naked
mutton-bone: the knife caught in the bone; he wrenched it free with an
ill-natured tweak. "And what do they teach you at college, miss, eh?" he
went on. "French? . . . Greek? . . . Latin? How goes it? INFANDUM,
REGINA, JUBES RENOVARE DOLOREM--isn't that the way of it? And
then . . . let me see! It's so long since I went to school, you know."

"TROJANAS UT OPES ET LAMENTABILE REGNUM ERUERINT DANAI," said Laura,
almost blind with pride and pleasure.

"Well, well, well!" he exclaimed, in what seemed tremendous surprise;
but, even as she spoke, his thoughts were swept away; for he had taken
up a mustard-pot and found it empty. "Yes, yes, here we are again! Not a
scrap of mustard on the table. "--His voice was angrily resigned.

"With MUTTON, Robby dear?" ventured Mrs. Shepherd, with the utmost
humbleness.

"With mutton if I choose!" he retorted violently. "WILL you,
Maisie, be kind enough to allow me to know my own tastes best, and not
dictate to me what I shall eat?"

But Mrs. Shepherd, murmuring: "Oh dear! it's that dreadful girl," had
already made a timid spring at the bell.

"Poor Robby . . . so rushed again!" said Isabella in a reproachful tone.

"And while she's here she may bring the water and the glasses as well,"
snarled the master of the house, who had run a flaming eye over the
table.

"Tch, tch, tch!" said Mrs. Shepherd, with so little spirit that Laura
felt quite sorry for her.

"REALLY, Maisie!" said Miss Isabella. "And when the poor boy's so
rushed, too."

This guerilla warfare continued throughout luncheon, and left Laura
wondering why, considering the dearth of time, and the distress of the
ladies at each fresh contretemps, they did not jump up and fetch the
missing articles themselves--as Mother would have done--instead of
each time ringing the bell and waiting for the appearance of the saucy,
unwilling servant. As it turned out, however, their behaviour had a
pedagogic basis. It seemed that they hoped, by constantly summoning the
maid, to sharpen her memory. But Mrs. Shepherd was also implicated in
the method; and this was the reason why Isabella--as she afterwards
explained to Laura--never offered her a thimbleful of help.

"My sister-in-law is nothing of a manager," she said. "But we still trust
she will improve in time, if she always has her attention drawn to her
forgetfulness--at least Robby does; I'm afraid I have rather [P.165]
given her up. But Robby's patience is angelic." And Laura was of the
same opinion, since the couple had been married for more than seven
years.

The moment the meal, which lasted a quarter of an hour, was over, Mr.
Shepherd clapped on his shovel-hat and started, with long strides, for
his class, Mrs. Shepherd, who had not been quite ready, scuttling along
a hundred yards behind him, with quick, fussy steps, and bonnet an awry.

Laura and Isabella stood at the gate.

"I ought really to have gone, too," said Isabella, and smiled at the
gutter. "But as you are here, Robby said I had better stay at home
to-day.--Now what would you like to do?"

This opened up a dazzling prospect, with the whole of Melbourne before
one. But Laura was too polite to pretend anything but indifference.

"Well, perhaps you wouldn't mind staying in then? I want so much to copy
out Robby's sermon. I always do it, you know, for he can't read his own
writing. But he won't expect it to-day and he'll be so pleased."

It was a cool, quiet little house, with the slightly unused smell in the
rooms that betokens a lack of children. Laura did not dislike the quiet,
and sat contentedly in the front parlour till evening fell. Not,
however, that she was really within hundreds of miles of Melbourne; for
the wonderful book that she held on her knee was called KING SOLOMON'S
MINES, and her eyes never rose from the pages.

Supper, when it came, was as scrappy and as hurried as lunch had been: a
class of working-men was momently expected, and Robby had just time to
gulp down a cup of tea. Nor could he converse; for he was
obliged to spare his throat.

Afterwards the three of them sat listening to the loud talking overhead.
This came down distinctly through the thin ceiling, and Mr. Shepherd's
voice--it went on and on--sounded, at such close quarters, both harsh
and rasping. Mrs. Shepherd was mending a stole; Isabella stooped over
the sermon, which she was writing like copperplate. Laura sat in a
corner with her hands before her: she had finished her book, but her
eyes were still visionary. When any of the three spoke, it was in a low
tone.

Towards nine o'clock Mrs. Shepherd fetched a little saucepan, filled it
with milk, and set it on the hob; and after this she hovered undecidedly
between door and fireplace, like a distracted moth.

"Now do try to get it right to-night, Maisie," admonished Isabella; and,
turning her face, if not her glance, to Laura, she explained: "It must
boil, but not have a scrap of skin on it, or Robby won't look at it."

Presently the working-men were heard pounding down the stairs, and
thereupon Maisie vanished from the room.

The next day Laura attended morning and evening service at St
Stephen's-on-the-Hill, and in the afternoon made one of Isabella's class
at Sunday school.

That morning she had wakened, in what seemed to be the middle of the
night, to find Isabella dressing by the light of a single candle.

"Don't you get up," said the latter. "We're all going to early service,
and I just want to make Robby some bread and milk beforehand. He would
rather communicate fasting, but he has to have something, for he
doesn't get home till dinner-time."

When midday came, Robby was very fractious. The mutton-bone--no cooking
was done--was harder than ever to carve with decency; and poor Mrs.
Shepherd, for sheer fidgetiness, could hardly swallow a bite.

But at nine o'clock that evening, when the labours of the day were
behind him, he was persuaded to lie down on the sofa and drink a glass
of port. At his head sat Mrs. Shepherd, holding the wine and some
biscuits; at his feet Isabella, stroking his soles. The stimulant
revived him; he grew quite mellow, and presently, taking his wife's
hand, he held it in his--and Laura felt sure that all his querulousness
was forgiven him for the sake of this moment. Then, finding a willing
listener in the black-eyed little girl who sat before him, he began to
talk, to relate his travels, giving, in particular, a vivid account of
some months he had once spent in Japan. Laura, who liked nothing better
than travelling at second hand--since any other way was out of the
question--Laura spent a delightful hour, and said so.

"Yes, Robby quite surpassed himself to-night, I thought," said Isabella
as she let down her hair. "I never heard anyone who could talk as well as
he does when he likes.--Can you keep a secret, Laura? We are sure,
Maisie and I, that Robby will be a Bishop some day. And he means to be,
himself.--But don't say a word about it; he won't have it mentioned out
of the house.--And meanwhile he's working as hard as he can, and we're
saving every penny, to let him take his next degree."

"I do hope you'll come again," she said the following morning,
as they walked back to the College. "I don't mind telling you now, I felt
quite nervous when Robby said we were to ask you. I've had no experience
of little girls. But you haven't been the least trouble--not a bit. And
I'm sure it was good for Robby having something young about the house.
So mind you write and tell us when you have another holiday"--and
Isabella's smile beamed out once more, none the less kindly because it
was caught, on its way to Laura, by the gate they were passing through.

Laura, whose mind was set on a good, satisfying slab of cake, promised
to do this, although her feelings had suffered so great a change that
she was not sure whether she would keep her word. She was pulled two
ways: on the one side was the remembrance of Mr. Shepherd hacking
cantankerously at the bare mutton-bone; on the other, the cherry-blossom
and the mousmes of Japan. 




XVII.



OHNMACHT ZUR LUGE IST LANGE NOCH NICHT LIEBE ZUR WAHRHEIT. . . . WER
NICHT LUGEN KANN, WEISS NICHT, WAS WAHRHEIT IST.

NIETZSCHE


A pantomime of knowing smiles and interrogatory grimaces greeted her,
when, having brushed the cake-crumbs from her mouth, she joined her
class. For the twinkling of an eye Laura hesitated, being unprepared.
Then, however, as little able as a comic actor to resist pandering to
the taste of the public, she yielded to this hunger for spicy
happenings, and did what was expected of her: clapped her hands, one
over the other, to her breast, and cast her eyes heavenwards. Curiosity
and anticipation reached a high pitch; while Laura, by tragically
shaking her head, gave it to be understood that no signs could transmit
what she had been through, since seeing her friends last.

In the thick of this message she was, unluckily, caught by Dr Pughson,
who, after dealing her one of his butcherly gibes, bade her to the
blackboard, to grapple with the Seventh Proposition.

The remainder of the forenoon was a tussle with lessons not glanced at
since Friday night.--Besides, Laura seldom forestalled events by
thinking over them, choosing rather to trust for inspiration to the spur
of the moment.

Morning school at an end, she was laid hands on and hurried off to a
retired corner of the garden. Here, four friends squatted round,
determined to extract her adventures from her--to the last pip.

Laura was in a pretty pickle. Did she tell the plain truth, state the
pedestrian facts--and this she would have been capable of doing with
some address; for she had looked through her hosts with a perspicacity
uncommon in a girl of her age; had once again put to good use those
'sharp, unkind eyes' which Mother deplored. She had seen an overworked,
underfed man, who nagged like any woman, and made slaves of two weak,
adoring ladies; and she very well knew that, as often as her thoughts in
future alighted on Mr. Robby, she would think of him pinching and
screwing, with a hawk-like eye on a shadowy bishopric. Of her warm
feelings for him, genuine or imaginary, not a speck remained. The first
touch of reality had sunk them below her ken, just as a drop of cold
water sinks the floating grounds in a coffee-pot . . . But did she
confess this, confess also that, save for a handful of monosyllables,
her only exchange of words with him had been a line of Virgil; and,
still more humbling, that she had liked his wife and sister better than
himself: did this come to light, she would forfeit every sou of the
prestige the visit had lent and yet promised to lend her. And, now that
the possible moment for parting with this borrowed support had come, she
recognised how greatly she had built on it.

These thoughts whizzed through her mind, as she darted a look at the
four predatory faces that hemmed her in. Tilly's was one of them: the
lightly mocking smile sat on it that Laura had come to know so well,
since her maladroit handling of Bob. She would kill that smile--and if
she had to die for it herself.

Still, she must be cautious, wary in picking her steps.
Especially as she had not the ghost of an idea how to begin.

Meanwhile cries of impatience buzzed round her.

"She doesn't want to tell."

"Mean brute!"

"Shouldn't wonder if it's too dashed shady."

"Didn't I SAY he was a bad 'un?"

"I bet you there's nothing to tell," said Tilly cockily, and turned up
her nose.

"Yes, there is," flung out Laura, at once put on the defensive, and as
she spoke she coloured.

"Look at her! Look how red she's got!"

"And after she promised--the sneak!"

"I'm not a sneak. I AM going to tell. But you're all in such a blooming
hurry."

"Oh, fire away, slow-coach!"

"Well, girls," began Laura gamely, breathing a little hard.--"But,
mind, you must never utter a word of what I'm going to tell you. It's a
dead secret, and IF you let on----"

"S' help me God!"

"Ananias and Sapphira!"

"Oh, DO hurry up."

"Well . . . well, he's just the most--oh, I don't know how to say it,
girls--the MOST----"

"Just scrumptious, I suppose, eh?"

"Just positively scrumptious, and . . ."

"And what'd he do?"

"And what about his old sketch of a wife?"

"Her? Oh"--and Laura squeezed herself desperately for the details that
WOULD not come--"oh, why she's just a perfect old . . . old cat.
And twenty years older than him."

"What on earth did he marry her for?"

"Guess he's pretty sick of being tied to an old gin like that?"

"I should say! Perfectly MISERABLE. He can't think now why he let
himself be induced to marry her. He just despises her."

"Well, why in the name of all that's holy did he take her?"

Laura cast a mysterious glance round, and lowered her voice. "Well, you
see, she had LOTS of money and he had none. He was ever so poor. And she
paid for him to be a clergyman."

"Go on! As poor as all that?"

"As poor as a church-mouse.--But, oh," she hastened to add, at the
visible cooling-off of the four faces, "he comes of a MOST distinguished
family. His father was a lord or a baronet or something like that, but
he married a beautiful girl who hadn't a penny against his father's will
and so he cut him out of his will."

"I say!"

"Oh, never mind the father."

"Yes. Well, now he feels under an awful obligation to her, and all that
sort of thing, you know."

"And she drives it home, I bet. She looks a nipper."

"Is always throwing it in his face."

"What a ghoul!"

"He'd do just ANYTHING to get rid of her, but--Girls, it's a dead
secret; you must swear you won't tell."

Gestures of assurance were showered on her.

"Well, he's to be a Bishop some day. It's promised him."

"Holy Moses!"

"And I suppose he can't divorce her, because of that?"

"No, of course not. He'll have to drag her with him like millstone round
his neck."

"And he'd twigged right enough you were gone on him?"

Laura's coy smile hinted many things. "I should say so. Since the very
first day in church. He said--but I don't like to tell you what he
said."

"You must!"

"No. You'll only call me conceited."

"No fear, Kiddy. Out with it!"

"Well, then, he said he saw me as soon as he got in the pulpit, and he
wondered ever so much who the girl was with the eyes like sloes, and the
skin like . . . like cream."

"Snakes-alive-oh! He went it strong."

"And how often were you alone with him?"

"Yes, and if he had met me before he was married--but no, I can't tell
any more."

"Oh, don't be such an ass!"

"No, I can't.--Well, I'll whisper it then . . . but only to Maria," and
leaning over Laura put her lips to Maria's ear.

The reason for this by-stroke she could not have told: the detail she
imparted did not differ substantially from those that had gone before.--
But by now she was at the end of her tether.

Here, fortunately for Laura, the dinner-bell rang, and the girls
had to take to their heels in order to get their books put away before
grace. Throughout the meal, from their scattered seats, they exchanged
looks of understanding, and their cheeks were pink.

In the afternoon, Laura was again called on to prove her mettle. Her
companion on the daily walk was Kate Horner. Kate had been one of the
four, and did not lose this chance of beating up fresh particulars.

After those first few awkward moments, however, which had come wellnigh
being a fiasco, Laura had no more trouble with her story. Indeed, the
plunge once taken, it was astounding how easy it became to make up
things about the Shepherds; the difficulty was, to know where to stop.
Fictitious details crowded thick and fast upon her--a regular
hotchpotch; she had only to stretch out her hand and seize what she
needed. It was simpler than the five-times multiplication-table, and did
not need to be learnt. But all the same she was not idle: she polished
away at her flimflams, bringing them nearer and nearer probability,
never, thanks to her sound memory, contradicting herself or making a
slip, and always able to begin again from the beginning.

Such initial scepticism as may have lurked in her hearers was soon got
the better of. For, crass realists though these young colonials were,
and bluntly as they faced facts, they were none the less just as hungry
for romance as the most insatiable novel-reader. Romance in any guise
was hailed by them, and swallowed uncritically, though it was no more
permitted to interfere with the practical conduct of their lives than it
is in the case of just that novel-reader, who puts untruth and
unreality from him, when he lays his book aside.--Another and weightier
reason was, their slower brains could not conceive the possibility of
such extraordinarily detailed lying as that to which Laura now subjected
them. Its very elaboration stood for its truth.

And the days passed, and Laura had the happiest ideas. A strange thing
about them was that they came to her quite unsought, dropping on her
like Aladdin's oranges on his turban. All she had to do was to fit them
into their niche in her fabrication.

At first, her tale had been chiefly concerned with the internal rift in
Mr. Shepherd's home-life, and only in a minor degree with herself. But
her public savoured the love-story most, and hence, consulting its
taste, as it is the tale-maker's bounden duty to do, Laura was obliged
to develop this side of her narrative at the expense of the other. And
the more the girls heard, the more they wished to hear. She had early
turned Miss Isabella into a staunch ally of her own, in the dissension
she had introduced into the curate's household; and one day she arrived
at a hasty kiss, stolen in the vestry after evening service, while Mr.
Shepherd was taking off his surplice. The puzzle had been, to get
herself into the vestry; but, once there, she saw what followed as if it
had actually happened. She saw Mr. Shepherd's arm slipped with diffident
alacrity round her waist, and her own virtuous recoil; saw Maisie and
Isabella waiting, sheep-like, in their pew, till it should please the
couple to emerge; saw the form of the verger moving about the darkening
church, as he put the lights out, one by one.

But the success this incident brought her turned Laura's head,
making her so foolhardy in her inventions that Maria, who for all her
boldness of speech was at heart a prude like the rest, grew uneasy.

"You're not to go to that house again, Kiddy. If you do, I'll peach to
old Gurley."

Laura ran upstairs to dress for tea, taking two steps at a time. On the
top landing, beside the great clothes-baskets, she collided with Chinky,
who was coming primly down.

"O ki, John!" she greeted her, being in a vast good-humour. "What do you
look so black for?"

"Dunno. Why do you never walk with me nowadays, Laura? I say, you know
about that ring? You haven't forgotten?"

"Course not. When am I to get it? It never turns up." Her eyes glittered
as she asked, for she foresaw a further link in her chain. "Soon, now?"

Chinky nodded mysteriously. "Pretty soon. And you promise faithfully
never to take it off?"

"But it must be a NICE one . . . with a red stone in it. And listen,
Chink, no one must ever know it was you who gave it me."

"All right, I swear. You're a darling to say you'll wear it," and
putting her arm round Laura's shoulders, Chinky gave her a hearty kiss.

This was more than Laura had bargained for;--she freed herself,
ungraciously. "Oh, don't!--now mind, a red stone, and for the third
finger of the left hand."

"Yes. And Laura, I've thought of something to put inside. SEMPER
EADEM . . . do you like that, Laura?"

"It'll do.--Look out, there's old Day!" and leaving Chinky standing,
she ran down the corridor to her room. 




XVIII.



DER VERBRECHER IST HAUFIG GENUG SEINER TAT NICHT GEWACHSEN.

NIETZSCHE


For a month or more, Laura fed like a honeybee on the sweets of success.
And throve--even to the blindest eye. What had hitherto been lacking
was now hers: the admiration and applause of her circle. And never was a
child so spurred and uplifted by praise as Laura. Without it, her nature
tended to be wary and unproductive; and those in touch with her, had
they wished to make the most of her, would no more have stinted with the
necessary incentive, that one stints a delicate rose tree in aids to
growth. Laura could swallow praise in large doses, without becoming
over-sure. Under the present stimulus she sat top in a couple of
classes, grew slightly ruddier in face, and much less shrinking in
manner.

"Call her back at once and make her shut that door," cried Miss Day
thickly, from behind one of the long, dining-hall tables, on which were
ranged stacks and piles of clean linen. She had been on early duty since
six o'clock.

The pupil-teacher in attendance stepped obediently into the passage; and
Laura returned.

"Doors are made to be shut, Laura Rambotham, I'd have you remember
that!" fumed Miss Day in the same indistinct voice: she was in the grip
of a heavy cold, which had not been improved by the draughts of the
hall.

"I'm sorry, Miss Day. I thought I had. I was a little late."

"That's your own lookout," barked the governess.--"Oh, there you are at
last, Miss Snodgrass. I'd begun to think you weren't going to appear at
all this morning. It's close on a quarter past seven."

"Sorry," said Miss Snodgrass laconically. "My watch must be losing.--
Well, I suppose I can begin by marking Laura Rambotham down late.--What
on earth are you standing there holding the door for?"

"Miss Day knows--I don't," sauced Laura, and made her escape.

She did not let Miss Snodgrass's bad mark disturb her. No sooner had she
begun her practising than she fell to work again on the theme that
occupied all her leisure moments, and was threatening to assume the bulk
of an early Victorian novel. But she now built at her top-heavy edifice
for her own enjoyment; and the usual fate of the robust liar had
overtaken her: she was beginning to believe in her own lies. Still she
never ventured to relax her critical alertness, her careful surveillance
of detail. For, just a day or two before, she had seen a quick flare-up
of incredulity light Tilly's face, and oddly enough this had happened
when she tried her audience with a fact, a simple little fact, an
incident that had really occurred. She had killed the doubt, instantly,
by smothering it with a fiction; but she could not forget that it had
existed. It has very perplexing; for otherwise her hearers did not shy
at a mortal thing; she could drive them where and how she chose.

At the present moment she was planning a great coup: nothing more or
less than a frustrated attempt on her virtue. It was almost
ready to be submitted to them--for she had read PAMELA with heartfelt
interest during the holidays--and only a few connecting links were
missing, with which to complete her own case.

Then, without the slightest warning, the blow fell.

It was a Sunday afternoon; the half-hour that preceded Sunday school.
Laura, in company with several others, was in the garden, getting her
Bible chapter by heart, when Maria called her.

"Laura! Come here. I want to tell you something."

Laura approached, her lips in busy motion. "What's up?"

"I say, chicken, your nose is going to be put out of joint."

"Mine? What do you mean?" queried Laura, and had a faint sense of
impending disaster.

"What I say. M. Pidwall's asked to the you-know-who's next Saturday."

"No, she's not!" cried Laura vehemently, and clapped her Bible to.

"S'help me God, she is," asserted Maria.--"Look out, don't set the place
on fire."

"How do you know? . . . who told you?"

"M. P. herself--Gosh, but you are a jealous little cub. Oh, go on,
Kiddy, don't take it like that. I guess he won't give you away."--For
Laura was as pale as a moment before she had been scarlet.

Alleging a violent headache, she mounted to her room, and sat down on
her bed. She felt stunned, and it took her some time to recover her
wits. Sitting on the extreme edge of the bedstead, she stared at [P.181]
the objects in the room without seeing them. "M. P.'s going there on
Saturday . . . M. P.'s going there on Saturday," she repeated stupidly,
and, with her hands pressed on her hips, rocked herself to and fro,
after the fashion of an older woman in pain.

The fact was too appalling to be faced; her mind postponed it. Instead,
she saw the fifty-five at Sunday school--where they were at this minute
--drawn up in a line round the walls of the dining-hall. She saw them
rise to wail out the hymn; saw Mr. Strachey on his chair in the middle
of the floor, perpetually nimming with his left leg. And, as she
pictured the familiar scene to herself, she shivered with a sudden sense
of isolation: behind each well-known face lurked a possible enemy.

If it had only not been M. P.!--that was the first thought that
crystallised. Anyone else! . . . from any of the rest she might have
hoped for some mercy. But Mary Pidwall was one of those people--there
were plenty such--before whom a nature like Laura's was inclined, at
the best of times, to shrink away, keenly aware of its own paltriness
and ineffectualness. Mary was rectitude in person: and it cannot be
denied that, to Laura, this was synonymous with hard, narrow,
ungracious. Not quite a prig, though: there was fun in Mary, and life in
her; but it was neither fun nor vivacity of a kind that Laura could feel
at ease with. Such capers as the elder girl cut were only skin-deep;
they were on the surface of her character, had no real roots in her:
just as the pieces of music she played on the piano were accidents of
the moment, without deeper significance. To Mary, life was already
serious, full of duties. She knew just what she wanted, too,
where she wanted to go and how to get there; her plans were cut and
dried. She was clever, very industrious, the head of several of her
classes. Nor was she ever in conflict with the authorities: she moved
among the rules of the school as safely as an egg-dancer among his eggs.
For the simple reasons that temptations seemed to pass her by. There
was, besides, a kind of manly exactness in her habit of thinking and
speaking; and it was this trait her companions tried to symbolise, in
calling her by the initial letters of her name.

She and Laura, though classmates, had never drawn together. It is true,
Mary was sixteen, and, at that time of life, a couple of years dig a
wide breach. But there was also another reason. Once, in the innocence
of her heart, Laura had let the cat out of the bag that an uncle of hers
lived in the up-country township to which Mary belonged.

The girl had eyed her coldly, incredulously. "What? That dreadful man
your uncle?" she had exclaimed: she herself was the daughter of a church
dignitary. "I should say I did know him--by reputation at least. And
it's quite enough, thank you."

Now Laura had understood that Uncle Tom--he needed but a pair of gold
earrings to pose as the model for a Spanish Grandee--that Uncle Tom WAS
odd, in this way: he sometimes took more to drink than was good for him;
but she had never suspected him of being "dreadful", or a byword in
Wantabadgery. Colouring to the roots of her hair, she murmured something
about him of course not being recognised by the rest of the family; but
M. P., she was sure, had never looked on her with the same eyes again.

Such was the rigid young moralist into whose hands her fate was
given.

She sat and meditated these things, in spiritless fashion. She would
have to confess to her fabrications--that was plain. M. P.'s precise
mind would bring back a precise account of how matters stood in the
Shepherd household: not by an iota would the truth be swerved from. Why,
oh why, had she not foreseen this possibility? What evil spirit had
prompted her and led her on?--But, before her brain could contemplate
the awful necessity of rising and branding herself as a liar, it sought
desperately for a means of escape. For a wink, she even nursed the idea
of dragging in a sham man, under the pretence that Mr. Shepherd had been
but a blind, used by her to screen some one else. But this yarn, twist
it as she might, would not pass muster. Against it was the mass of her
accumulated detail.

She sat there, devising scheme after scheme. Not one of them would do.

When, at tea-time, she rose to wash her face before going downstairs,
the sole point on which she had come to clearness was, that just seven
days lay between her and detection.--Yet after all, she reminded
herself, seven days made a week, and a week was a good long time.
Perhaps something would happen between now and Saturday. M. P. might
have an accident and break her leg, and not be able to go. Or thin,
poorly-fed Mr. Shepherd fall ill from overwork.--Oh, how she would
rejoice to hear of it!

And, if the worst came to the worst and she HAD to tell, at least it
should not be to-day. To-day was Sunday; and people's thoughts were
frightfully at liberty. To-morrow they would be engaged again;
and, by to-morrow, she herself would have grown more accustomed to the
idea.--Besides, how foolish to have been in too great a hurry, should
something come to pass that rendered confession needless.

On waking next morning, however, and accounting, with a throb, for the
leaden weight on her mind, she felt braver, and quite determined to make
a clean breast of her misdoings. Things could not go on like this. But
no sooner was she plunged into the routine of the day than her decision
slackened: it was impossible to find just the right moment to begin.
Early in the morning everyone was busy looking over lessons, and would
not thank you for the upset, the dinner-hour was all too short; after
school, on the walk, she had a partner who knew nothing about the
affair, and after tea she practised.--Hence, on Monday her purpose
failed her.

On Tuesday it was the same; the right moment never presented itself.

In bed that night she multiplied the remaining days into hours. They
made one hundred and twenty. That heartened her a little; considered
thus, the time seemed very much longer; and so she let Wednesday slip
by, without over-much worry.

On Thursday she not only failed to own up, but indulged anew.

All the week, as if Mary Pidwall's coming visit worked upon them, the
girls had been very greedy for more love-story, and had shown themselves
decidedly nettled by Laura's refusal to continue; for this was the week
when the great revelation she had hinted at should have been made. And
one afternoon when the four were twitting her, and things were
looking very black, Laura was incited by some devil to throw them, not,
it is true, the savoury incident their mouths watered for, but a fresh
fiction--just as the beset traveller throws whatever he has at hand, to
the ravenous wolves that press round the sledge. At the moment, the
excitement that accompanies inspiration kept her up; but afterwards she
had a stinging fit of remorse; and her self-reproaches were every whit
as bitter as those of the man who has again broken the moral law he has
vowed to respect, and who now sees that he is powerless against
recurring temptation.

When she remembered those four rapacious faces, Laura realised that,
come what might, she would never have the courage to confess. To them,
at least. That night in deep humility she laid her sin bare to God,
imploring Him, even though He could not pardon it, to avert the
consequences from her.

The last days were also darkened by her belief that M. P. had got wind
of her romancings: as, indeed, was quite likely; for the girls' tongues
were none too safe. Mary looked at her from time to time with such a
sternly suspicious eye that Laura's very stomach quailed within her.

And meanwhile the generous hours had declined to less than half.

"Twice more to get up, and twice to go to bed," she reckoned aloud to
herself on Saturday morning.

She was spending that week-end at Godmother's. It was as dull as usual;
she had ample leisure to brood over what lay before her. It was now a
certainty, fixed, immovable; for, by leaving school that day without
having spoken, she had burned her ships behind her. When she
went back on Monday M. P. would be there, and every loophole closed. On
Sunday evening she made an excuse and went down into the garden. There
was no moon; but, overhead, the indigo-blue was a prodigal glitter of
stars--myriads of silver eyes that perforated the sky. They sparkled
with a cold disregard of the small girl standing under the mulberry
tree; but Laura, too, was only half-alive to their magnificence. Her
thoughts ran on suicide, on making an end of her blighted career. God
was evidently not going to be generous or long-suffering enough to come
to her aid; and in imagination she saw the fifty-five gaining on her
like a pack of howling hyaenas; saw Mrs. Gurley, Mr. Strachey--Mother.
Detection and exposure, she knew it now, were the most awful things the
world held. But she had nothing handy: neither a rope, nor poison, nor
was there a dam in the neighbourhood.

That night she had the familiar dream that she was being "stood up" and
expelled, as Annie Johns had been: thousands of tongues shouted her
guilt; she was hunted like a wallaby. She wakened with a scream, and
Marina, her bedfellow, rose on one elbow and lighted the candle.
Crumpled and dishevelled, Laura lay outside the sheet that should have
covered her; and her pillow had slipped to the floor.

"What on earth's the matter? Dreaming? Then depend on it you've eaten
something that's disagreed with you."

How she dragged her legs back to school that morning, Laura never knew.
At the sight of the great stone building her inner disturbance was such
that she was nearly sick. Even the unobservant Marina was forced
to a remark.

"You do look a bit peaky. I'm sure your stomach's out of order. Your
should take a dose of castor-oil to-night, before you go to bed."

Though it was a blazing November day, her fingers were cold as she took
off her hat and changed her white frock. "For the last time," she
murmured; by which she meant the last time in untarnished honour. And
she folded and hung up her clothes, with a neatness that was foreign to
her.

Classes were in full swing when she went downstairs; nothing could
happen now till the close of morning school. But Laura signalised the
beginning of her downfall, the end of her comet-like flight, by losing
her place in one form after another, the lessons she had prepared on
Friday evening having gone clean out of her head.

Directly half-past twelve struck, she ran to the top of the garden and
hid herself under a tree. There she crouched, her fingers in her ears,
her heart thumping as if it would break. Till the dinner-bell rang. Then
she was forced to emerge--and no tottering criminal, about to face the
scaffold, has ever had more need of Dutch courage than Laura in this
moment. Peeping round the corner of the path she saw the fateful group:
M. P. the centre of four gesticulating figures. She loitered till they
had scattered and disappeared; then with shaking legs crept to the
house. At the long tables the girls still stood, waiting for Mr.
Strachey; and the instant Laura set foot in the hall, five pairs of eyes
caught her, held her, pinned her down, as one pins a butterfly to a
board. She was much too far gone to think of tossing her head and
braving things out, now that the crisis had come. Pale, guilty,
wretched, she sidled to her seat. This was near Maria's, and, as she
passed, Maria leant back.

"You VILE little liar!" 

"How's that shy little mouse of a girl we had here a month or two ago?"
Mr. Shepherd had inquired. "Let me see--what was her name again?"

To which Miss Isabella had replied: "Well, you know, Robby dear, you
really hardly saw her. You had so much to do, poor boy, just when she
was here. Her name was Laura--Laura Rambotham."

And Mrs. Shepherd gently: "Yes, a nice little girl. But very young for
her age. And SO shy."

"You wretched little lying sneak!"

In vain Laura wept and protested.

"You made me do it. I should never have told a word, if it hadn't been
for you."

This point of view enraged them. "What? You want to put it on us now, do
you? . . . you dirty little skunk! To say WE made you tell that pack of
lies?--Look here: as long as you stay in this blooming shop, I'll never
open my mouth to you again!"

"Someone ought to tell old Gurley and have her expelled. That's all
she's fit for. Spreading disgusting stories about people who've been
kind to her. They probably only asked her there out of charity. She's as
poor as dirt."

"Wants her bottom smacked--that's what I say!"

Thus Maria, and, with her, Kate Horner.

Tilly was cooler and bitterer. "I was a dashed fool ever to believe a
word. I might have known her little game. She? Why, when I took
her out to see my cousin Bob, she couldn't say bo to a goose. He laughed
about her afterwards like anything; said she ought to have come in a
perambulator, with a nurse.--YOU make anyone in love with you--you!"
And Tilly spat, to show her disdain.

"What have they been saying to you, Laura?" whispered Chinky, pale and
frightened. "Whatever is the matter?"

"Mind your own business and go away," sobbed Laura.

"I am, I'm going," said Chinky humbly.--"Oh, Laura, I WISH you had that
ring."

"Oh, blow you and your ring! I hate the very name of it," cried Laura,
maddened.--And retreating to a lavatory, which was the only private
place in the school, she wept her full.

They all, every girl of them, understood white lies, and practised them.
They might also have forgiven her a lie of the good, plain,
straightforward, thumping order. What they could not forgive, or get
over, was the extraordinary circumstantiality of the fictions which with
she had gulled them: to be able to invent lies with such proficiency
meant that you had been born with a criminal bent.--And as a criminal
she was accordingly treated.

Even the grown-up girls heard a garbled version of the story.

"Whyever did you do it?" one of them asked Laura curiously; it was a
very pretty girl, called Evelyn, with twinkling brown eyes.

"I don't know," said Laura abjectly; and this was almost true.

"But I say! . . . nasty tarradiddles about people who'd been so
nice to you? What made you tell them?"

"I don't KNOW. They just came."

The girl's eyes smiled. "Well, I never! Poor little Kiddy," she said as
she turned away.

But this was the only kind word Laura heard. For many and many a night
after, she cried herself to sleep. 




XIX.



Thus Laura went to Coventry.--Not that the social banishment she now
suffered was known by that name. To the majority of the girls Coventry
was just a word in the geography book, a place where ribbons were said
to be made, and where for a better-read few, some one had hung with
grooms and porters on a bridge; this detail, odd to say, making a deeper
impression on their young minds than the story of Lady Godiva, which was
looked upon merely as a naughty anecdote.

But, by whatever name it was known, Laura's ostracism was complete. She
had been sampled, tested, put on one side. And not the softest-hearted
could find an excuse for her behaviour.

It was but another instance of how misfortune dogs him who is down, that
Chinky should choose this very moment to bring further shame upon her.

On one of the miserable days that were now the rule, when Laura would
have liked best to be a rabbit, hid deep in its burrow; as she was going
upstairs one afternoon, she met Jacob, the man-of-all-work, coming down.
He had a trunk on his shoulder. Throughout the day she had been aware of
a subdued excitement among the boarders; they had stood about in groups,
talking in low voices--talking about her, she believed, from the
glances that were thrown over shoulders at her as she passed. She made
herself as small as she could; but when tea-time came, and then [P.192]
supper, and Chinky had not appeared at either meal, curiosity got the
better of her, and she tried to pump one of the younger girls.

Maria came up while she was speaking, and the child ran away; for the
little ones aped their elders in making Laura taboo.

"What, liar? You want to stuff us you don't know why she's gone?" said
Maria. "No, thank you, it's not good enough. You can't bamboozle us this
time."

"Sapphira up to her tricks again, is she?" threw in the inseparable
Kate, who had caught the last words. "No, by dad, we don't tell liars
what they know already.--So put that in your pipe and smoke it!"

Only bit by bit did Laura dig out their meaning: then, the horrible
truth lay bare. Chinky had been dismissed--privately because she was a
boarder--from the school. Her crime was: she had taken half-a-sovereign
from the purse of one of her room-mates. When taxed with the theft, she
wept that she had not taken it for herself, but to buy a ring for Laura
Rambotham; and, with this admission on her lips, she passed out of their
lives, leaving Laura, her confederate, behind.--Yes, confederate; for,
in the minds of most, liar and thief were synonymous.

Laura had not cared two straws for Chinky; she found what the latter had
done, "mean and disgusting", and said so, stormily; but of course was not
believed. Usually too proud to defend herself, she here returned to the
charge again and again; for the hint of connivance had touched her on
the raw. But she strove in vain to prove her innocence: she could not
get her enemies to grasp the abysmal difference between merely
making up a story about people, and laying hands on others' property; if
she could do the one, she was capable of the other; and her companions
remained convinced that, if she had not actually had her fingers in some
one's purse, she had, by a love of jewellery, incited Chinky to the
theft. And so, after a time, Laura gave up the attempt and suffered in
silence; and it WAS suffering; for her schoolfellows were cruel with
that intolerance, that unimaginative dullness, which makes a woman's
cruelty so hard to bear. Laura had to accustom herself to hear every
word she said doubted; to hear some one called to, before her face, to
attest her statements; to see her room-mates lock up their purses under
her very nose.

However, only three weeks had still to run till the Christmas holidays.
She drew twenty-one strokes on a sheet of paper, which she pinned to the
wall above her bed; and each morning she ran her pencil through a fresh
line. She was quite resolved to beg Mother not to send her back to
school: if she said she was not ge