e master-mind of this. She has never been to the
convent. There's a keynote in keeping these girls apart. I think
our handsome friend, Madame de Santos, is playing a sharp game."
In two days he has vanished.

In his voyage to New York and to the Pacific, Joe thinks over
every turn of this intrigue. If Hardin tries to hide Armand Valois'
fortune, why should he dabble in the mystery of these girls?

Crossing the plains, where the buffalo still roam by thousands,
Woods meets in the smoking-room many old friends. A soldierly-looking
traveller attracts his attention. The division superintendent
makes Colonel Peyton and Colonel Woods acquainted. Their friendship
ripens rapidly. Joe Woods, a Southern sympathizer, has gained his
colonelcy by the consent of his Western friends. It is a brevet
of financial importance. Learning his friend is a veteran of the
"Stars and Bars," and a Virginian, the Westerner pledges many a cup
to their common cause. To the battle-torn flag of the Confederacy,
now furled forever.

As the train rattles down Echo Canyon, Peyton tells of the hopes
once held of a rising in the West.

Woods is interested. When Peyton mentions "Maxime Valois," the
Croesus grasps his hand convulsively.

"Did you serve with him?" Joe queries with eagerness. "He was my
pardner and chum."

"He died in my arms at Peachtree Creek," answers Peyton.

Joe embraces Peyton. "He was a game man, Colonel."

Peyton answers: "The bravest man I ever saw. I often think of
him, in the whirl of that struggle for De Gress's battery. Lying
on the sod with the Yankee flag clutched in his hand, its silk was
fresh-striped with his own heart's blood. The last sound he heard
was the roar of those guns, as we turned them on the enemy."

"God! What a fight for that battery!" The Californian listens,
with bated breath, to the Virginian. He tells him of the youthful
quest for gold.

The war brotherhood of the two passes in sad review. Peyton tells
him of the night before Valois' death.

Joe Woods' eyes glisten. He cries over the recital. An eager
question rises to his lips. He chokes it down.

As Peyton finishes, Woods remarks:

"Peyton, I am going to get off at Reno, and go to Virginia City.
You come with me. I want to know about Valois' last days."

Peyton is glad to have a mentor in the West. He has gained neither
peace nor fortune in wandering under the fringing palms of Latin
America.

Toiling up the Sierra Nevada, Woods shows Peyton where Valois won
his golden spurs as a pathfinder.

"I have a favor to ask of you, Peyton," says Joe. "I want to hunt
up that boy in Paris. I'm no lawyer, but I think he ought to have
some of this great estate. Now, Hardin is a devil for slyness. I
want you to keep silent as to Valois till I give you the word.
I'll see you into some good things here. It may take time to work
my game. I don't want Hardin to suspect. He's an attorney of the
bank. He counsels the railroad. He would spy out every move."

"By the way, Colonel Woods," Peyton replies, "I have the papers
yet which were found on Valois' body. I sealed them up. They are
stained with his blood. I could not trust them to chances. I intended
to return them to his child. I have never examined them."

Joe bounds from his seat. "A ten-strike! Now, you take a look at
them when we reach 'Frisco.' If there are any to throw a light on
his affairs, tell me. Don't breathe a word till I tell you. I will
probe the matter. I'll break Hardin's lines, you bet." The speculator
dares not tell Peyton his hopes, his fears, his suspicions.

San Francisco is reached. Peyton has "done the Comstock." He is
tired of drifts, gallery, machinery, miners, and the "laissez-aller"
of Nevada hospitality. The comfort of Colonel Joe's bachelor
establishment places the stranger in touch with the occidental
city.

Received with open arms by the Confederate sympathizers, Peyton is
soon "on the stock market." He little dreams that Joe has given
one of his many brokers word to carry a stiff account for the
Virginian. Pay him all gains, and charge all losses to the "Woods
account."

Peyton is thrilled with the stock gambling of California Street.
Every one is mad. Servants, lawyers, hod carriers, merchants,
old maids, widows, mechanics, sly wives, thieving clerks, and the
"demi-monde," all throng to the portals of the "Big Board." It
is a money-mania. Beauty, old age, callow boyhood, fading manhood,
all chase the bubble values of the "kiting stocks."

From session to session, the volatile heart of San Francisco throbs
responsive to the sliding values of these paper "stock certificates."

Woods has departed for a fortnight, to look at a new ranch in San
Joaquin. He does not tell Peyton that he lingers around Lagunitas.
He knows Hardin is at San Francisco. A few hours at the county seat.
A talk with his lawyer in Stockton completes Joe's investigations.
No will of Maxime Valois has ever been filed. The estate is held
by Hardin as administrator after "temporary letters" have been
renewed. There are no accounts or settlements. Joe smiles when
he finds that Philip Hardin is guardian of one "Isabel Valois," a
minor. The estate of this child is nominal. There is no inventory
of Maxima Valois' estate on file. County courts and officials are
not likely to hurry Judge Philip Hardin.

On the train to San Francisco, Woods smokes very strong cigars
while pondering if he shall hire a lawyer in town.

"If I could only choose one who would STAY bought when I BOUGHT>
him, I'd give a long price," Joe growls. With recourse to his great
"breast-pocket code," the Missourian runs over man after man, in
his mind. A frown gathers on his brow.

"If I strike a bonanza, I may have to call in some counsel. But I
think I'll have a few words with my friend Philip Hardin."

Woods is the perfection of rosy good-humor, when he drags Hardin
away from his office next day to a cosey lunch at the "Mint."

"I want to consult you, Judge," is his excuse. Hardin, now counsel
for warring giants of finance, listens over the terrapin and birds,
to several legal posers regarding Joe's affairs. Woods has wide
influence. He is a powerful friend to placate. Hardin, easy now
in money matters, looks forward to the United States Senate. Woods
can help. He is a tower of strength.

"They will need a senator sometime, who knows law, not one of those
obscure MUD-HEADS," says Hardin to himself.

Colonel Joe finishes his Larose. He takes a stiff brandy with his
cigar, and carelessly remarks:

"How's your mine, Judge?"

"Doing well, doing well," is the reply.

"Better let me put it on the market for you. You are getting old
for that sort of bother."

"Woods, I will see you by and by. I am trustee for the Valois
estate. He left no will, and I can't give a title to the ranch till
the time for minor heirs runs out. So I am running the mine on my
own account. Some outside parties may claim heirship."

"Didn't he leave a daughter?" says Woods.

"There is a girl--she's East now, at school; but, between you and
me, old fellow, I don't know if she is legitimate or not. You know
what old times were."

Colonel Joe grins with a twinge of conscience. He has had his
"beaux-jours."

"I will hold on till the limitation runs out. I don't want to cloud
the title to my mine, with litigation. It comes through Valois."

"You never heard of any Eastern heirs?" Joe remarks, gulping a
"stiffener" of brandy.

"Never," says Hardin, reaching for his hat and cane. "The Judge
died during the war. I believe his boy died in Paris. He has never
turned up. New Orleans is gone to the devil. They are all dead."

"By the way, Judge, excuse me." Woods dashes off a check for Hardin.
"I want to retain you if the 'Shooting Star' people fool with my
working the 'Golden Chariot;' I feel safe in your hands."

Even Hardin can afford to pocket Joe's check. It is a prize. Golden
bait, Joseph.

Woods says "Good-bye," floridly, to his legal friend. He takes a
coupe at the door. "Cute old devil, Hardin; I'll run him down yet,"
chuckles the miner. Joe is soon on his way to the Pacific Mail
Steamship office.

Several gray-headed officials greet the popular capitalist.

He broaches his business. "I want to see your passenger lists for
1865." He has notes of Vimont's in his hand. While the underlings
bring out dusty old folios, Joe distributes his pet cigars. He is
always welcome.

Looking over the ancient records he finds on a trip of the Golden
Gate, the following entries:

    Madame de Santos,
    Miss Isabel Valois,
    Marie Berard and child.

He calls the bookkeeper. "Can you tell about these people?"

The man of ink scans the entry. He ponders and says:

"I'll tell you who can give you all the information, Colonel Joe.
Hardin was lawyer for this lady. He paid for their passages with
a check. We note these payments for our cash references. Here is
a pencil note: 'CK Hardin.' I remember Hardin coming himself."

"Oh, that's all right!" says the Argonaut.

An adjournment of "all hands," to "renew those pleasing assurances,"
is in order.

"Ah, my old fox!" thinks Woods. "I am going to find out who gave
Marie Berard that other child. But I won't ask YOU. YOUR TIME IS
TOO VALUABLE, Judge Philip Hardin."

He gives his driver an extra dollar at the old City Hall.

Joe Woods thinks he is alone on the quest. He knows not that the
Archbishop's secretary is reading some long Latin letters, not three
blocks away, which are dated in Paris and signed Francois Ribaut.
They refer to the records of the Mission Dolores parish. They invoke
the aid of the all-seeing eye of the Church as to the history and
rights of Isabel Valois.

Pere Ribaut humbly begs the protection of his Grace for his protege,
Armand Valois, in case he visits California.

Philip Hardin, in his office, weaving his golden webs, darkened
here and there with black threads of crime, is deaf to the cry of
conscience. What is the orphaned girl to him? A mere human puppet.
He hears not the panther feet of the avengers of wrong on his trail.
Blind insecurity, Judge Hardin.

Woods has seized Captain Lee, and taken him out of his sanctum to
the shades of the "Bank Exchange."

The great detective captain, an encyclopedia of the unwritten
history of San Francisco, regards Woods with a twinkle in his gray
eye. The hunted, despairing criminal knows how steady that eye can
be. It has made hundreds quail.

Lee grins over his cigar. Another millionaire in trouble. "Some
woman, surely." The only question is "What woman?"

The fair sex play a mighty part in the mysteries of San Francisco.

"Lee, I want you to hunt up the history of a woman for me," says
the old miner.

The captain's smile runs all over his face. "Why, Colonel Joe!" he
begins.

"Look here; no nonsense!" says Joseph, firmly. "It's a little matter
of five thousand dollars to you, if you can trace what I want."

There is no foolishness in Lee's set features. He throws himself
back, studying his cigar ash. That five thousand dollars is an
"open sesame."

"What's her name?"

Joseph produces his notes.

"Do you remember Hardin sending some people to Panama, in '65?"
begins the Colonel. "Two women and two children. They sailed on
the GOLDEN GATE."

"Perfectly," says the iron captain, removing his cigar. "I watched
these steamers for the government. He was a Big Six in the K.G.C.,
you remember, Colonel Joe?"

Joe winces; that Golden Circle dinner comes back, when he, too,
cheered the Stars and Bars.

"I see you do remember," says Lee, throwing away his cigar. "Now
be frank, old man. Tell me your whole game."

Woods hands him the list of the passengers. He is keenly eying Lee.

"Who was that Madame de Santos?" he says eagerly.

"Is it worth five thousand to know?" says the detective, quietly.

"On the dead square," replies Joe, "Cash ready."

"Do you remember the 'Queen of the El Dorado'?" Lee simply says.

"Here! Great God, man!" cries Lee, for Joe Woods' fist comes down
on the table. Flying cigars, shattered glasses, and foaming wine
make a rare havoc around.

"By God!" shouts the oblivious Joe," the woman Hardin killed 'French
Charlie' for."

"The same," says Lee, steadily, as he picks some splintered glass
out of his goatee. "Joe, you can add a suit of clothes to that
check."

"Stop your nonsense," says the happy Joe, ringing for the waiter
to clear away the wreck of his cyclonic fist. "The clothes are
O.K."

"Where did she come from to take that boat?" demands Woods.

"From Hardin's house," says Lee.

A light breaks in on Colonel Joe's brain.

"And that woman with her?"

"Was her maid, who stayed with her from the time she left the El
Dorado, and ran the little nest on the hill. The mistress never
showed up in public."

"And the child who went with the maid?" Joe's voice trembles.

"Was Hardin's child. Its mother was the 'Queen of the El Dorado.'"

Woods looks at Lee.

"Can you give me a report, from the time of the killing of 'French
Charlie' down to the sailing?"

"Yes, I can," says the inscrutable Lee.

"Let me have it, to-morrow morning. Not a word to Hardin."

"All right, Colonel Joe," is the answer of silent Lee.

Joseph chokes down his feelings, orders a fresh bottle of wine,
some cigars, and calls for pen and ink.

While the waiter uncorks the wine, Joe says: "What do you pay for
your clothes, Lee?"

"Oh, a hundred and fifty will do," is the modest answer. "That
carries an overcoat."

Joe laughs as he beautifies a blank check with his order to himself,
to pay to himself, five thousand one hundred and fifty dollars,
and neatly indorses it, "Joseph Woods." "I guess that's the caper,
Captain," he says. This "little formality" over, the wine goes to
the right place THIS TIME.

"Now I don't want to see you any more till I get your reminiscences
of that lady," remarks Joe, reaching for his gold-headed club.

"On time, ten o'clock," is the response of the police captain.

"Have you seen her since, Joe? She was a high stepper," muses the
Captain. He has been a great connoisseur of loveliness. Many fair
ones have passed under his hands in public duty or private seance.

"That's my business," sturdy Joe mutters, with an unearthly wink.
"You give me back my check, old man, and I'll tell you what _I_
know."

Lee laughs. "I'm not so curious, Colonel."

They shake hands, and the gray old wolf goes to his den to muse
over what has sent Joe Woods on a quest for this "fallen star."

Lee wastes no time in mooning. The check is a "pleasing reality."
The memories of Hortense Duval are dearer to Joe than to him. His
pen indites the results of that watchful espionage which covers
so many unread leaves of private life in San Francisco.

There is an innocent smile on Woods' face when he strolls into
his own office and asks Peyton to give him the evening in quiet.
Strongly attracted by the Virginian, Woods has now a double interest
in his new friend.

In the sanctum, Woods says, "Peyton, I am going to tell you a
story, but you must first show me the papers you have kept so long
of poor Valois."

Peyton rises without a word. He returns with a packet.

"Here you are, Woods. I have not examined them yet. Now, what is
it?"

"You told me Valois made a will before he died, Peyton," begins
Woods.

"He did, and wrote to Hardin. He wrote to the French priest at his
ranch."

Woods starts. "Ha, the damned scoundrel! Go on; go on." Joe knows
Pere Francois never got that letter. "I read those documents. His
letter of last wishes to Hardin. When I was in Havana, I found
Hardin never acknowledged the papers."

Woods sees it all. He listens as Peyton tells the story.

"We have to do with a villain," says Joe. "He destroyed the papers
or has hidden them. Colonel, open this packet." Joe's voice is
solemn.

With reverent hand, Peyton spreads the papers before the miner.
There are stains upon them. Separating them, he arranges them one
by one. Suddenly he gives a gasp.

"My God! Colonel Joe, look there!"

Woods springs to his side.

It is a "message from the dead."

Yes, lying for years unread, between the last letters of his wife
and the tidings of her death, is an envelop addressed:

    Major Henry Peyton,
        Fourteenth Louisiana Inf'y,
            C.S.A."

Tears trickle through Peyton's fingers, as he raises his head, and
breaks the seal.

"Read it, Major," says Woods huskily. He is moved to the core of
his heart. It brings old days back.

Peyton reads:

        Atlanta--In the field,
            July 21, 1864.

My Dear Peyton:--I am oppressed with a strange unrest about my
child! I do not fear to meet death to-morrow. I feel it will take
me away from my sadness. I am ready. Our flag is falling. I do not
wish to live to see it in the dust. But I am a father. As I honor
you, for the brotherhood of our life together, I charge you to
watch over my child. Hardin is old; something might happen to him.
I forgot a second appointment in the will; I name you as co-executor
with him. Show him this. It is my dying wish. He is a man of honor.
I have left all my estate to my beloved child, Isabel Valois. It
is only right; the property came by my marriage with my wife, her
dead mother. In the case of the death of my child, search out the
heirs of Judge Valois and see the property fairly divided among
them. Hardin is the soul of honor, and will aid you in all. I desire
this to be a codicil to my will, and regarded as such. I could not
ask you to ride out again for me this wild night before my last
battle.

The will you witnessed, is the necessary act of the death of my
wife. If you live through the war, never forget

Your friend and comrade, MAXIME VALOIS.

P.S. If you go to California, look up Joe Woods. He is as true a
man as ever breathed, and would be kind to my little girl. Padre
Francisco Ribaut married me at Lagunitas to my Dolores. Good-bye
and good-night. M.V.

The men gaze at each other across the table, touched by this solemn
voice sweeping down the path of dead years. That lonely grave by
the lines of Atlanta seemed to have opened to a dead father's love.
Peyton saw the past in a new light. Valois' reckless gallantry that
day was an immolation. His wife's death had unsettled him.

Joe Woods' rugged breast heaved in sorrow as he said, "Peyton,
I will stand by that child. So help me, God! And he thought of me
at the last--he thought of me!" The old miner chokes down a rising
sob. Both are in tears.

"Look here, Colonel!" said Woods briskly. "This will never do! You
will want to cheer up a little, for your trip, you know."

"Trip?" says the wondering Virginian.

"Why, yes," innocently remarks Joseph Woods. "You are going to
New Orleans to look up about the Valois boy. Then you are to see
those bankers at Havana, and get proof before the Consul-General
about the documents. I want you to send your affidavit to me. I've
got a lawyer in New York, who is a man. I'll write him. You can
tell him all. I'm coming on there soon. After you get to New York
from Havana, you will go to Paris and stay there till I come."

Peyton smiles even in his sadness. "That's a long journey, but I
am yours, Colonel. Why do I go to Paris?"

"You are going to answer the letter of that dead man," impressively
remarks Joseph.

"How?" murmurs Peyton.

"By being a father to his lonely child and watching over her.
There's two girls there. You can keep an eye on them both. I'll
trap this old scoundrel here. You've got to leave this town. He
might suspect YOU when I start MY machinery.

"I'll plow deep here. I'll meet you in New York. Now, I want you
to take to-morrow's train. I'll run your stock account, Colonel
Henry," Woods remarks, with a laugh.

The next day, Peyton speeds away on his errand after receiving the
old miner's last orders. His whispered adieu was: "I'm going to
stand by my dead pardner's kid, for he thought of me at the last."






CHAPTER XVII.

WEAVING SPIDERS.--A COWARD BLOW.--MARIE BERARD'S DOOM.





Peyton's good-bye rings in Woods' ears as the train leaves. The
boxes and parcels forced on the Confederate veteran, are tokens
of his affection. The cognac and cigars are of his own selection.
Joe's taste in creature comforts is excellent, and better than his
grammar.

On the ferry, Joe surveys San Francisco complacently from the
steamer.

"I've got those documents in the vaults. I'll have Peyton's evidence.
I rather fancy Captain Lee's biography will interest that dame in
Paris. I will prospect my friend Hardin's surroundings. He must
have some devil to do his dirty work. I will do a bit of 'coyote
work' myself. It's a case of dog eat dog, here."

Joseph classes all underhand business as "coyote work." He appreciates
the neatness with which that furtive Western beast has taken his
boots, soap, his breakfast and camp treasures under his nose.

Invincible, invisible, is the coyote.

"By Heavens! I'll make that old wolf Hardin jump yet!" Joseph swears
a pardonable oath.

After writing several telling letters to the Padre and Vimont, he
feels like a little stroll. He ordered Vimont to guard Louise Moreau
at any cost. "No funny business," he mutters.

"If she's the girl, that scoundrel might try to remove her from
this world," thinks Joseph. "As for the other girl, he's got a
tiger cat to fight in the 'de Santos.'"

Colonel Woods beams in upon the clerks of Judge Hardin. That magnate
is absent. The senatorial contest is presaged by much wire-pulling.

"I don't see the young man who used to run this shebang," carelessly
remarks the Croesus.

"Mr. Jaggers is not here any longer," smartly replies his pert
successor, to whom the fall of Jaggers was a veritable bonanza.

"What's the matter with him?" says Woods. "I wanted him to do a
job of copying for me."

The incumbent airily indicates the pantomime of conveying the too
frequent Bourbon to his lips.

"Oh, I see! The old thing," calmly says Woods. "Fired out for
drinking."

The youth nods. "He is around Montgomery Street. You 'most always
will catch him around the 'old corner' saloon."

Joseph Woods is familiar with that resort of bibulous lawyers. He
wanders out aimlessly.

While Barney McFadden, the barkeeper, surveys Colonel Joseph
swallowing his extra cocktail, he admires himself in the mirror.
He dusts off his diamond pin with a silk handkerchief.

"Jaggers! Oh, yes; know him well. In back room playing pedro. Want
him?"

Woods bows. The laconic Ganymede drags Jaggers away from his ten-cent
game.

Impelled by a telegraphic wink, Barney deftly duplicates the favorite
tipple of the Californian. The Golden State has been sustained in
its growth, by myriads of cocktails. It is the State coat of arms.

"Want to see me? Certainly, Colonel." Jaggers is aroused.

In a private room, Jaggers wails over his discharge. His pocket
is his only fear. Otherwise, he is in Heaven. His life now, is all
"Cocktails and poker!" "Poker and cocktails!" It leaves him little
time for business. Woods knows his man--a useful tool.

"Look here, Jaggers; I know your time is valuable." Jaggers bows
gravely; he smells a new twenty-dollar piece; it will extend his
"cocktail account." "I want you to do some business for me." Jaggers
looks stately.

"I'm your man, Colonel," says Jaggers, who is, strange to say, very
expert in his line. The trouble with Jaggers is, the saloon is not
near enough to Judge Hardin's office. The OFFICE should be in the
SALOON. It would save useless walking.

"I want you to search a title for me," says Colonel Joe, from
behind a cloud of smoke. Jaggers sniffs the aroma. Joseph hands
him several "Excepcionales."

Jaggers becomes dignified and cool. "Is there money in it, Colonel?"
he says, with a gleam of his ferret eyes.

"Big money," decisively says Woods.

"I'm very busy now," objects Jaggers. He thinks of his ten-cent
ante in that pedro game.

"I want you to give me your idea of the title to the Lagunitas
mine. I am thinking of buying in," continues Joe. "I'll give you
five hundred dollars, in cold twenties, if you tell me what you
know."

"How soon?" Jaggers says, with a gasp.

"Right off!" ejaculates Woods, banging the bell for two more
cocktails.

Jaggers drains the fiery compound. He whispers with burning breath
in Woods' ears:

"Make it a cool thousand, and swear you'll look out for me. I'll
give the thing dead away. You know what a son-of-a-gun Hardin is?"

Woods bows. He DON'T know, but he is going to find out. "I'll give
you a job in my mine (the Golden Chariot), as time-keeper. You can
keep drunk all your life, except at roll-call. If Hardin hunts you
up there, I'll have the foreman pitch him down the shaft. Is this
square?"

"Honor bright!" says Jaggers, extending his palm. "Honor bright!"
says Joseph, who dares not look too joyous.

Jaggers muses over another cocktail. "You go to the bank, and get
a thousand dollars clean stuff. Give me a coupe. I'll give you the
things you want, in half an hour. I've got 'em stowed away. Don't
follow me!"

Woods nods, and throws him a double-eagle. "I'll be here when
you come back. Keep sober till we're done. I'll give you a pass
to Virginia City, so you can finish your drunk in high altitudes.
It's healthier, my boy!" Joe winks.

Jaggers is off like a shot. Colonel Joseph walks two blocks to the
bank. He returns with fifty yellow double-eagles.

"Got to fight coyote style to catch a coyote!" is the murmur
of Colonel Woods to his inward monitor. "It's for the fatherless
kid."

"Barney," impressively says Joseph, "make me a good cocktail this
time! Send 'em in, ANY WAY, when that young man returns. His life
is insured. _I_ have to work for a living. Make one for yourself.
YOU are responsible."

Barney's chef d'oeuvre wins a smile from the genial son of Missouri.
As the last drops trickle down his throat, Jaggers enters. He has
had external cocktails. He is flushed, but triumphant.

"Colonel, you're a man of honor. There's your stuff." He throws an
envelope on the table.

Joseph Woods opens the packet. "Just count that, young man, while
I look at these."

He peruses the papers handed him, with interest. Jaggers follows
him.

"This is all you have. Anything else in the office?" says Woods.

"Not a scratch. Colonel, I thought they would come in handy."
Jaggers' work is done.

"Take care of your money, my lad. It is yours," says Woods. He
rings for Barney, and indites a note to his foreman at the "Golden
Chariot." "You better get up there, to-night, Jaggers," he says,
handing him the note and a pass. "Your appointment is only good
for that train. You give that note to Hank Daly. He'll supply you
all the whiskey you want, free. By the way, the boys up there play
poker pretty well. Now you keep cool, or you'll get shot as well
as lose your money. Don't you forget to stay there, if it's ten
years till I want you. Daly will have orders for you.

"If you come back here, Hardin will kill you like a dog, if he
finds this out."

"And you?" murmurs Jaggers, who is imbibing the stirrup cup.

"Oh, I'll look out for that!" remarks cheerful Joe Woods. Armed
with substantial "persuaders," Jaggers leaves with an agent of
Barney's. He has orders to see Jaggers and his "baggage," started
for Virginia City.

Jaggers beams. Joe Woods never drops a friend. His future smiles
before him. Exit Jaggers.

Woods reads the documents. One is a press copy of a letter dated
January, 1864, addressed to Colonel Maxime Valois, from Hardin,
asking him to sell him the quartz claims on the Lagunitas grant.

The answer of Valois is written while recovering from his wounds.
It reads:

"TALLULAH, GEORGIA, March 1, 1864.

"MY DEAR HARDIN: I have your letter, asking me to sell you the
quartz leads on the Lagunitas grant. I am still suffering from my
wound, and must be brief.

"I cannot do this. My title is the title of my wife. I have no right
to dispose of her property by inheritance, without her consent.
She has my child to look after. As the ranch income may fail some
day, I will not cut off her chances to sell. It is her property. I
would not cloud it. I will join my regiment soon. If the war ends
and I live to return, I will arrange with you. I have no power to
do this, now, as my wife would have to join in the sale. I will
not ask her to diminish the value of the tract. I leave no lien on
this property. My wife and child have it free from incumbrance if
I die.

"Address me at Atlanta, Georgia.

"YOURS, MAXIME VALOIS."

"I think I hold four aces now, Mr. Philip Hardin," says Woods,
contemplating himself in the mirror over the bar as he settles with
the gorgeous Barney.

"By the way," remarks Woods, "Barney; if that young man owes you a
bill, send it around to my office." Barney escorts his visitor to
the door, bowing gratefully. Woods departs in a quandary.

"I guess I'll gather up all my documents, and take a look over
things. New York is the place for me to get a square opinion."

When Woods reaches New York he meets Peyton, successful in his
tour for evidence. On consultation with Judge Davis, his adviser,
Woods sends Peyton to Tallulah. It is likely Valois' papers may be
found, for the Colonel "joined" hurriedly on the last advance of
Sherman. Colonel Joseph imparts his ideas to his counsel. A certified
copy of the transfer recorded by Hardin, of the Lagunitas mine,
is sent on by Jaggers, directed in his trip by Hank Daly from the
mine.

In five days a despatch from Tallulah gladdens the miner, who longs
for Paris:

"Found and examined baggage. Original letter in my hands. Coming
with all. Many other papers.

"PEYTON."

On the Virginian's arrival Judge Davis instructs the friends. Woods
insists on Peyton taking joint charge of the quest for the orphan's
fortune.

"Hardin is responsible under his trusteeship. You can't force
Peyton on him as co-executor. He has concealed the will. A suit
now would warn the villain and endanger the child's life. Take the
certified copy of the transfer to Paris. Get the priest's deposition
that the document is forged; then guard the girl as if she were
your life. In a few years the heiress will be entitled to claim her
estate. Keep the child near Paris, but change her residence often.
Watch the maid and Madame de Santos. Follow them to California.
Produce the girl you claim to be the heiress. I will give you a
letter to an advocate in Paris, who will close up the proof. Beware
of Hardin! If he suspects, the child's life may be in danger!"

"I'll kill him myself if there is any foul play!" roars Joe Woods.

"My dear Colonel, that would not bring the child back," remarks
Judge Davis, smiling at his handsome counsel fee. "Count on me!
Use the cable."

On the Atlantic the guardians agree on their duties. "I will
interview Madame de Santos when I close some business in London,"
says Woods grimly.

Peyton, with credentials to Padre Francisco, speeds from Liverpool
to Paris. He arrives none too soon.

Philip Hardin's villany strikes from afar!

Judge Hardin, passing the county seat, on his way to the mine,
looks in to obtain his annual tax papers. A voluble official remarks:

"Going to sell your mine, Judge?"

"Certainly not, sir," replies the would-be Senator, with hauteur.

"Excuse me. You sent for certified copies of the title. We thought
you were putting it on the market."

Hardin grows paler than his wont. Some one has been on the trail.
He asks no questions. His cipher-book is at San Francisco. Who is
on the track? He cannot divine. The man applying was a stranger
who attracted no attention. The Judge telegraphs to the mine for
his foreman to come to San Francisco. He returns to his house on
the hill. From his private safe he extracts the last letters of
Natalie de Santos.

Since her urgent appeal, she has been brief and cold. She is
waiting. Is this her stroke? He will see. Has anyone seen the child
and made disclosures? His heart flutters. He must now placate
Natalie. The child must be quickly removed from Paris. He dare not
give a reason. No, but he can use a bribe.

After several futile attempts he pens this cipher:

Remove child instantly to Dresden. Telegraph your address on
arrival. Definite settlement as you wished. Remember your promise.
Directions by mail. Imperative.

PHILIP.

Hardin chafes anxiously before a reply reaches him. When he reads
it, he rages like a fiend. It clearly reads:

I will not obey. Marry me first. Come here. Keep your oath. I will
keep my promise. A settlement on the other child is no safeguard
to me. She must have a name. Letters final. Useless to telegraph.
HORTENSE.

When Hardin's rage subsides, he reviews the situation in his
palace. He is safe for years from an accounting, yet it is coming
on. If he brings the heiress to California, it will precipitate it.
Secret plans for the Senate of the United States are now maturing.
Marriage with Hortense. Impossible. His friends urge his giving
his name to an ambitious lady of the "blue blood" of his Southern
home. She is a relative of the head of the Democratic capitalists.
This is a "sine qua non." The lady has claims on these honors.
It has been a secret bargain to give his hand in return for that
seat. Hortense talks madness. Never.

As for facing her, he dare not. He has established her. She is
too subtle to risk herself out of the lines she has found safe.
Who can be the "Deus ex machina"?

Ah, that Italian meddler, Villa Rocca! Hardin weaves a scheme. He
will wait her letters. If the Italian is his enemy, he will lure
him to California and then----

Ah, yes, till then, patience--the patience of the tiger crouching
at the water-pool for his coming prey.

Peyton loses no time in Paris. He reaches the home of Aristide
Dauvray. He is welcomed by the circle. The young artists are busy
with brush and modelling tool. Woods' patronage has been a blessing.
The fame of his orders has been extended by the exhibition of the
works ordered by him. His bankers have directed the attention of
the travelling Americans to the young man.

Louise Moreau is no longer a bud, but an opening rose. So fair is
she, so lovely, that Armand feels his heart beat quicker when the
girl nears his canvas to admire his skill. By the direction of Pere
Francois, she leaves the house no more for her lessons. There is
a secret guard of loving hearts around her.

Pere Francois meets Peyton with open arms. They are to be joint
guardians over the innocent child of destiny.

At Peyton's hotel, the men commune. It is not strange that the
ex-Confederate is comfortably settled opposite the Dauvray mansion!
In an exchange of opinion with the able Josephine, it is agreed
that one of the young men or the Colonel shall be always at hand.

Woods meditates a "coup de maitre." He intends, on his arrival, to
remove the girl Louise where no malignity of Hardin can reach her,
to some place where even Marie Berard will be powerless. He will
force some one to show a hand. Then, God keep the villain who
leaves his tree to fight in the open! It is war to the death. Woods
directs Peyton to use his bankers and the police, telegraphing him
at London. He has a fear they have been followed to Europe. The
bankers understand that Peyton and the priest are Woods' ambassadors.

Marie Berard comes no more to the home of her charge. Her letters
are sent by a commissionaire. Peyton reads in this a danger signal.
The soldier is on the watch for treachery. His quiet habits are
easily satisfied. He has his books, daily journals, and also French
lessons from charming Louise.

It is sunny splendor at the house on the Champs Elysees, where
Natalie de Santos moves in her charmed circle of luxury. While
Peyton waits for the "Comstock Colonel," an anxious woman sits in
her queenly boudoir.

Natalie's beauty is ravishing. The exquisite elegance of her manner
is in keeping with the charms of the shining loveliness which makes
her a cynosure in the "Bois."

Face to face with a dilemma, the fair "chatelaine" racks her brain
for a new expedient. Her woman's wit is nonplussed.

Villa Rocca DEMANDS, URGES, PLEADS, SUES for marriage. Is it love?
Of all her swains he is the only one who touches her heart. At his
approach, her tell-tale pulse beats high. She dare not yet quit
Hardin. There is a campaign before her. To force Hardin to marry
her, even secretly, is the main attack. He is now old. Then, to
establish her daughter as the heiress of Lagunitas. After Hardin's
death, marriage with Villa Rocca. That is the goal. But how to
restrain his lover-like ardor.

She smiles at her reflection in the glass. She knows "the fatal
gift of beauty." It is another woman than the "queen of the gambling
hell" who smiles back at her. The pearls on her neck rise and fall.
Hardin! Ah, yes; his possible treachery! Would he dare to take the
convent pupil away from her? Perhaps.

A devilish smile plays on her lips. She will let him steal his own
child; the other, the REAL Lady of Lagunitas, he never shall know.
Gods! If he should be aware of it. It must be prevented. Whom can
she trust? No one.

Villa Rocca? Triumph shines in her eyes! She must definitely
promise him marriage in these happy years, and give him the child
as a gage. He can hide her in his Italian hills. He really has a
bit of a castle under the olive-clad hills of Tuscany.

But Marie Berard. She must outwit that maid. When the child is
gone, Marie's power ceases. No one will ever believe her. A few
thousand francs extra will satisfy the greedy soubrette.

Seizing her pen, she sends a note to the club where baccarat
and billiards claim Villa Rocca's idle hours. He meets her in the
Bois de Boulogne, now splendid in transplanted foliage. His coupe
dismissed, they wander in the alleys so dear to lovers. There
is triumph in her face as they separate. A night for preparation;
next day, armed with credentials in "billets de banque," Villa Rocca
will lure the girl to her mysterious guardian who will be "sick"
near Paris. Once under way, Villa Rocca will not stop till the girl
is in his Italian manor.

With bounding heart, he assents. He has now Natalie's promise to
marry him. They are one in heart.

"I am yours to the death," he says.

While Natalie sips her chocolate next morning, a carriage draws
up before Aristide Dauvray's home. Josephine is busied with the
household. Louise, singing like a lark, gayly aids her foster-mother.
Aristide is far away. He toils at the new structures of beauty.
Arm in arm, the young artists are taking a long stroll.

A gentleman of elegant appearance descends, with anxious visage. The
peal of the bell indicates haste. Josephine receives her visitor.
He curtly explains his visit. The guardian of Louise Moreau needs
her instant presence. She is ill, perhaps dying. In her excitement,
Josephine's prudence is forgotten. To lose the income from the
child, to hazard the child's chances of property. "But the child
must go: at once!" Josephine is awed and flurried. As she hastily
makes preparation, a ray of suspicion darts through her mind. Who
is this messenger?

"I think I had better accompany you," cries Josephine. Then, "her
house," to be left to only one feeble old servant.

"Ah, ciel! It is terrible."

"Madame, we have no time to lose. It is near the train time. We will
telegraph. You can follow in two hours," the stranger remarks, in
silken voice.

The visitor urges. The girl is cloaked and bonneted. Josephine
loses her head. "One moment,"--she rushes for her hat and wrap;
she will go at once, herself.

As she returns, there is a muffled scream at the door of the coupe.

"Mon Dieu!" Josephine screams. "My child! my Louise!" The coupe
door is closing.

A strong voice cries to the driver, "Allez vite!"

As "Jehu" is about to lash his horses, an apparition glues him to
his seat.

A gray-haired man points an ugly revolver at his head.

"Halt!" he says. The street is deserted. Villa Rocca opens the
door. A strong hand hurls him to the gutter. Louise is urged from
the coach. She is in her home again!

Peyton turns to grasp the man, who picks himself from the gutter.
He is ten seconds too late. The carriage is off like a flash; it
turns the corner at a gallop. Too cool to leave the fort unguarded,
Peyton enters the salon. He finds Josephine moaning over Louise,
who has fainted.

In a half-hour, Pere Francois and the young men are a bodyguard on
duty. Peyton drives to the bank, and telegraphs Woods at London:

"Come instantly! Attempt to abduct, prevented by me! Danger!
PEYTON."

The next night, in the rooms of the miner, the padre and Peyton
hold a council of war. An engine waits at the "Gare du Nord." When
sunlight gilds once more Notre Dame, Peyton enters the car with a
lady, clad in black. A maid, selected by Joseph Vimont, is of the
party. "Monsieur Joseph" himself strolls into the depot. He jumps
into the cab with the engineer. "Allons!" They are off.

From forty miles away a few clicks of the telegraph flash the news
to Woods. The priest knows that Peyton and his ward are safely "en
route." "Tres bien!"

It is years before the light foot of Louise Moreau presses again
the threshold of her childhood's home. In a sunny chateau, near
Lausanne, a merry girl grows into a superb "Lady of the Lake." She
is "Louise Moreau," but Louise "en reine." She rules the hearts
of gentle Henry Peyton and the "autocrat of the Golden Chariot."
It is beyond the ken of "Natalie de Santos," or Philip Hardin, to
pierce the mystery of that castle by the waters of the Swiss lake.

Visions of peace lend new charms to the love of the pure-souled
girl who wanders there.

Louise is not always alone by Leman's blue waters. Colonel Peyton
is a thoughtful, aging man, saddened by his fiery past.

He sees nothing. He dreams of the flag which went down in battle
and storm. The flag of which Father Ryan sang--"in fond recollection
of a dead brother"--the ill-fated stars and bars:

   "Furl that banner, for 'tis weary,
    Round its staff 'tis drooping dreary.
        Furl it, fold it, it is best;
    For there's not a man to wave it--
    And there's not a sword to save it--
    And there's not one left to lave it
    In the blood which heroes gave it;
    And its foes now scorn and brave it;
        Furl it, hide it; let it rest."

But younger and brighter eyes than his own, dimmed with battle smoke,
look love into each other. Louise and Armand feel the throbbing
whispers of the lake in their own beating hearts.

Far above them there, the silver peaks lift unsullied altars to
the God of nature, life, and love.

And as the rosy flush of morning touches the Jungfrau, as the tender
light steals along the sunlit peaks of the Alps, so does the light
of love warm these two young hearts. Bounding pulse and melting
accent, blush of morning on rosy peak and maiden's cheek, tell of
the dawning day of light and love.

Shy and sweet, their natures mingle as two rivulets flowing to
the sea. Born in darkness and coldness, to dance along in warmth
and sunlight, and mingle with that great river of life which flows
toward the unknown sea.

In days of bliss, in weeks of happiness, in months of heart growth,
the two children of fortune drink in each other's eyes the philter
of love. They are sworn a new Paul and Virginia, to await the
uncertain gifts of the gods. The ardor of Armand is reflected in
the tender fidelity of graceful Louise, who is a radiant woman now.

While this single car flies out of Paris, a "mauvais quart d'heure"
awaits Ernesto de Villa Rocca, at the hands of Natalie.

Bounding from her seat, she cries, "Imbecile fool, you have ruined
both of us! The girl is lost now!"

In an hour the Italian evolves a new plan. Marie Berard shall
herself find and abduct the child! The Comte de Villa Rocca will
escort them to the Italian tower, where Natalie's dangerous ward
will be lost forever to Hardin.

But Marie must now be placated! Natalie de Santos smiles as she
points to a plump pocket-book.

"A magic sceptre, a magnetic charm, my dear Count." Her very voice
trickles with gold.

While Ernesto Villa Rocca and his promised bride dine in the
lingering refinement of a Parisian table, they await the return
of the baffled Marie. The maid has gone to arrange the departure
of Louise. No suspicion must be awakened! Once under way, then
silence!--quietly enforced. Ah, chloroform!

There was no etiquette in the sudden return of the pale-faced
maid; she dashed up, in a carriage, while the lovers dallied with
the dessert.

"Speak, Marie! What has happened?" cries Natalie, with a sinking
heart.

"Madame, she is gone! Gone forever!"

Madame de Santos bounds to the side of the defeated woman. "If
you are lying, beware!" she hisses. Her hand is raised. There is a
dagger flashing in the air. Villa Rocca wrests it from the raging
woman's hand. "No folly, Madame! She speaks the truth!"

Marie stubbornly tells of her repulse. Josephine was "not alone!"
Blunt Aristide elbowed her out of the house, saying:

"Be off with you! The girl is gone! If you want to know where she
is, apply to the police. Now, don't show your lying face here
again! I will have you arrested! You are a child stealer! You and
your ruffian had better never darken this door. Go!"

Natalie de Santos sinks back in her chair. Her teeth are chattering.
A cordial restores her nerves. Count Villa Rocca lingers, moody
and silent.

What powerful adversary has baffled them?

"Marie, await me in my room!" commands Natalie. In five minutes the
roll of rubber-tired wheels proves that madame and the count have
gone out. "To the opera?" "To the theatre?" The sly maid does not
follow them. Her brain burns with a mad thirst for vengeance. Her
hoard must now be completed. "Has she been tricked?" "Thousand
devils, no!"

Softly moving over the driveway, Natalie eagerly pleads with Villa
Rocca. Her perfumed hair brushes his cheek. Her eyes gleam like
diamonds, as they sweep past the brilliantly lighted temples of
pleasure. She is Phryne and Aspasia to-night.

Villa Rocca is drunk with the delirium of passion. His mind reels.

"I will do it," he hoarsely murmurs. Arrived at the "porte cochere,"
the count lifts his hat, as madame reenters her home.

There is a fatal glitter in Natalie's eyes, as she enters alone
her robing room.

When madame is seated in the freedom of a wonderful "robe de
chambre," her face is expectant, yet pleasant. Marie has fulfilled
every duty of the eyening.

"You may go, Marie. I am tired. I wish to sleep," remarks the lady,
nonchalantly.

"Will madame pardon me?"

Marie's voice sounds cold and strange. Ah, it has come, then!
Natalie has expected this. What is the plot?

Natalie looks her squarely in the eyes. "Well?" she says, sharply.

"I hope madame will understand that I close my duties here to-night!"
the maid slowly says.

"Indeed?" Madame lifts her eyebrows.

"I would be glad to be permitted to leave the house to-morrow."

"Certainly, Marie!" quietly rejoins Natalie. "You may leave when
you wish. The butler will settle your account. I shall not ring
for you to-morrow." She leans back. Checkmate!

"Will madame excuse me?" firmly says the maid, now defiantly looking
her mistress in the eyes. "The butler can probably not settle my
little account."

"What is it?" simply asks Madame de Santos.

"It is one hundred thousand francs," firmly replies the woman.

"I shall not pay it! decidedly not!" the lady answers.

"Very good. Judge Hardin might!"

The maid moves slowly to the door.

"Stay!" commands Natalie. "Leave my house before noon to-morrow.
You can come here with any friend you wish at this hour to-morrow
night. You will have your money. How do you wish it?"

"In notes," the maid replies, with a bow. She walks out of the
room. She pauses at the threshold. "Will madame ask Georgette to
look over the property of madame?"

"Certainly. Send her to me!"

Marie Berard leaves her world-wearied mistress, forever, and without
a word.

When the other maid enters, madame finds need for the assistant.
"You may remain in my apartment and occupy the maid's couch. I
may want you. I am nervous. Stay!"

The under-maid is joyous at her promotion. Madame de Santos sleeps
the sleep of the just. Happy woman!

Marie Berard rages in her room, while her mistress sleeps in a
bed once used by a Queen of France.

The ticking clock drives her to madness. She throws it into the
court-yard.

Spurned! foiled! baffled!

Ah, God! She will have both fortunes. She remembers that little
paper of years ago.

Yes, to find it now. Near her heart. By the candle, she reads the
cabalistic words:

"Leroyne & Co., 16 Rue Vivienne."

Was it an imprudence to speak of Hardin? No, it was a mere threat.
Marie's cunning eyes twinkle. She will get this money here quietly.
Then, to the bank--to the bank! Two fortunes at one "coup."

But she must see Jules! Jules Tessier! He must help now; he must
help. And how? He is at the Cafe Ney.

Yet she has often slipped out with him to the "bals de minuit." A
friend can replace him; servants keep each others' secrets. Victory!

She must see him at once. Yes, Jules will guide her. He can go to
the bank, after she has received her money. And then the double
payment and vengeance on madame!

Like lightning, she muffles herself for the voyage. A coupe, ten
minutes, and above all--a silent exit. All is safe; the house
sleeps. She steals to her lover. Jules Tessier starts, seeing Marie
in the ante-room at the Cafe Ney. There are, even here, curious
spies.

Marie's eyes are flashing; her bosom heaves. "Come instantly,
Jules! it is the hour. My coupe is here."

"Mon Dieu, in an instant!" The sly Jules knows from her shaken
voice the golden hoard is in danger.

In a few moments he is by her side in the coupe. "Where to?"
huskily asks the head-waiter.

"To the 'bal de minuit.' We can talk there."

"Allons! au Jardin Bullier," he cries.

Before the "fiacre" stops, Jules has an idea of the situation. Ah!
a grand "coup." Jules is a genius!

Seated in a bosky arbor, the two talk in lowest tones over their
chicken and Burgundy.

There is a noisy party in the next arbor, but a pair of dark Italian
eyes peer like basilisks through the leaves of the tawdry shade.
The lovers are unconscious of the listener.

With joint toil, the pair of lovers prepare a letter to Leroyne &
Co., bankers, 16 Rue Vivienne.

Marie's trembling hand draws the paper from her bosom. She knows
that address by heart.

"Give it to me, Marie," he pleads, "for safety." A FRENCHWOMAN can
deny her lover nothing.

"Now, listen, 'ma cherie,'" Jules murmurs. "You get the one treasure.
To-morrow I go to the bank, the telegraph, you understand, but not
till you have the other money safe." Her eyes sparkle. A double
fortune! A double revenge! A veritable "coup de Machiavelli."

"And I must go, dearest. I wait for you to-morrow. You get your
money; then I am off to the bank, and we will secure the rest.
Bravo!"

Jules snaps his fingers at the imbeciles. He sees the "Hotel Tessier"
rising in cloudland.

"Press this proud woman hard now. Be careful. I will pay the coupe;
we might be followed."

While Jules is absent, Marie dreams the rosy dreams of fruition.
Love, avarice, revenge!

Down through the entrance, they saunter singly. Both are Parisians.
After a square or two brings them to night's obscurity, parting
kisses seal the dark bond; Judge Hardin shall pay after madame;
Marie's velvet hand grips Jules' palm in a sinful compact.

Home by the usual way, past Notre Dame, and Jules will discreetly
watch her safety till she reaches the omnibus.

She knows not when she reaches Notre Dame that Tessier lies behind
her, stunned upon the sidewalk, his pockets rifled, and his senses
reeling under brutal blows. Her heart is blithe, for here, under
the shade of Notre Dame, she is safe. Twenty steps bring her to
the glaring street. Yet the avenger has panther feet.

Out of the shadow, in a moment, she will be. "Oh, God!" the cry
smothers in her throat. Like lightning, stab after stab in her back
paralyzes her.

Bubbling blood from her quivering lips, Marie falls on her face.
A dark shadow glides away, past buttress and vaulted door.

Is it Villa Rocca's ready Italian stiletto?






BOOK V.

REAPING THE WHIRLWIND.

CHAPTER XVIII.

JOE WOODS SURPRISES A LADY.--LOVE'S GOLDEN NETS.





When a cab is halted, the horses shying at a prostrate body, knots
of street loungers gather at the cries of the discoverers of
Marie Berard's body. The "sergents de ville" raise the woman. Her
blood stains the sidewalk, in the shadow of the Church of Christ.
Twinkling lights flicker on her face. A priest passing by, walks
by the stretcher. He is called by his holy office to pray for the
"parting soul."

It is Pere Francois. He has been in Notre Dame. To the nearest
hospital the bearers trudge. It is only a few rods. When the body
is examined, the pale face is revealed. Pere Francois clasps his
hands.

It is, indeed, the mysterious guardian of Louise, stabbed and dying.
It is the hand of fate!

Breathing faintly, the poor wretch lies prone. There is no apparent
clue to her assailant. She is speechless. It has not been robbery;
her valuables are intact. Hastily anointing her, Pere Francois
departs. He promises to return in the morning. He hastens to the
nearest cabstand, and whirls away to Colonel Woods' hotel. Whose
hand has dealt this blow? The financier is startled at the priest's
face. Joseph has been jocular since the safe departure of Louise.

He listens. A prodigious whistle announces his feelings. "Padre,"
says he, "if that Frenchwoman is alive to-morrow, you must see
her. Find out all she knows. I'll turn out at daybreak, and watch
Madame Santos' house myself. I think that handsome 'she devil'
had something to do with this.

"Got done with the maid. No more use for her. Now, my dear friend,
I will be here to-morrow when you show up. We will interview the
madame. She's the spider in this game."

Woods sleeps like a man in a tossing storm. He knows from the padre's
repeated visits at the Santos mansion that dying Marie holds the
secret of these two children's lives. If she could only talk.

All night the miner battles for Valois' unknown child.

Up with the lark, Joe sends his "French fellow" for detective
Vimont. "Voila! un grand proces."

Vimont sees gold ahead.

By eight o'clock, ferret eyes are watching the Santos mansion, the
home of discreet elegance.

A stunning toilet is made by Joseph, in the vain hope of impressing
the madame. He will face this Lucrezia Borgia "in his raiment
of price." He has a dim idea, that splendid garb will cover his
business-like manner of coming to "first principles."

A happy man is he at his well-ordered dejeuner, for though Joe is
no De Rohan or Montmorency, yet he eats like a lord and drinks like
a prince of the blood. He is the "first of his family"--a golden
fact.

He revenges himself daily for the volunteer cuisine of the American
River. Often has he laughed over haughty Valois' iron-clad bread,
his own flinty beans, the slabs of pork, cooked as a burnt offering
by slow combustion. Only one audacious Yankee in the camp ever
attempted a pie. That was a day of crucial experiment, a time of
bright hopes, a period of sad failure.

Vimont reports at noon. A visit from Villa Rocca of a half-hour.
Sauntering up the Elysees, after his departure, the count, shadowed
carefully, strolled to his club. He seemed to know nothing. The
waxen mask of Italian smoothness fits him like a glove. He hums a
pleasant tune as he strolls in. The morning journals? Certainly;
an hour's perusal is worthy the attention of the elegant "flaneur."
Ah! another murder. He enjoys the details.

Pere Francois enters the colonel's rooms, with grave air. While
Vimont frets over his cigar, in the courtyard, the story of Marie
Berard is partly told.

She will not live through the night. At her bedside, Sisters of
Charity twain, tell the beads and watch the flickering pulse of the
poor lost girl. The police have done their perfunctory work. They
are only owls frightened by sunlight. Fools! Skilful fools! She knows
nothing of her assailant. Her feeble motions indicate ignorance.
She must have rest and quiet. The saddened Pere Francois can not
disguise from Woods that he suspects much. Much more than the
police can dream in their theories.

What is it? Hopes, fears, the rude story of a strange life, and upon
it all is the awful seal of the confessional. For, Marie Berard has
unfolded partly, her own life-story. Joe Woods clasps the padre's
hands.

"You know which of these children is a million-heiress, and which
a pauper?"

The padre's eyes are blazing. He is mute. "Let us trust to God.
Wait, my friend," says Pere Francois solemnly. Before that manly
voice, the miner hushes his passionate eagerness. Violence is vain,
here.

It seems to him as if the dead mother of an orphan child had placed
her hand upon his brow and said: "Wait and hope!"

Monte Cristo's motto once more.

The padre eyes the Comstock colonel under his thin lashes.

"My friend"--his voice trembles--"I can tell you nothing yet, but
I will guide you. I will not see you go wrong."

"Square deal, padre!" roars Joseph, with memories of gigantic
poker deals. Irreverent Joe.

"Square deal," says the priest, solemnly, as he lays an honest
man's hand in that of its peer. He knows the Californian force of
this appeal to honor. Joseph selects several cigars. He fusses with
his neckgear strangely.

"Vamos, amigo," he cries, in tones learned from the muleteers of
the far West.

Once in the halls of "Madame de Santos," Colonel Joe is the pink
of Western elegance. The acute sense of the Missourian lends him
a certain dignity, in spite of his gaudy attire.

Under fire, this Western pilgrim can affect a "sang froid" worthy
of Fontenoy.

Radiant in white clinging "crepe de Chine," her "prononcee" beauty
unaccentuated by the baubles of the jeweller, Madame de Santos
greets the visitors.

A blue circle under her eyes tells of a vigil of either love or
hate. Speculation is vain. The "monde" has its imperial secrets.

Who can solve the equation of womanhood? Colonel Joseph is effusive
in his cheery greeting. "My dear madame, I am glad to be in Paris
once more." He would charm this sphinx into life and warmth. Foolish
Joseph.

"We all are charmed to see you safely returned," murmurs the madame.
The padre is studying the art treasures of the incomparable "Salon
de Santos."

"I have some messages from a friend of yours," continues Joseph,
strangely intent upon the narrow rim of his hat.

"Ah, yes! Pray who remembers me so many years?"

Joseph fires out the answer like a charge of canister from a
Napoleon gun: "Philip Hardin."

The lady's lips close. There is a steely look in her eyes. Her hand
seeks her heaving bosom. Is there a dagger there?

"Useless, my lady." There are two men here. The padre is intent
upon a war picture of Detaille. His eyes catch a mirror showing
the startled woman.

"And--what--did--Mr.--Philip--Hardin say?" the lady gasps.

"He asked me if you remembered Hortense Duval, the Queen of the
El--" Natalie reels and staggers, as if shot.

"By God, Lee was right!" cries Woods. He catches her falling form.
The first and only time he will ever hold her in his arms.

"Padre, ring the bell!" cries the excited miner.

The clock ticks away noisily in the hall. The wondering servants
bear madame to her rooms. All is confusion. A fainting fit.

"Let's get out of here," whispers Woods, frightened by his own
bomb-shell.

"Stay till we get a message of formality," murmurs the diplomatic
padre. "It would look like violence or insult to leave abruptly.
No one here must suspect." Joe nods gloomily and wipes his brows.

The stately butler soon expresses the regrets of madame. "A most
unforeseen affair, an assault upon one of her discharged servants,
has tried her nerves. Will Colonel Woods kindly excuse madame, who
will send him word when she receives again?"

"Colonel Woods will decidedly excuse madame." He returns to his
hotel. He grieves over the dark shadows cast upon her suffering
loveliness. "By the gods! It's a shame SHE IS WHAT SHE IS," he
murmurs to his cigar. Ah, Joseph! entangled in the nets of Delilah.

In a few days the spacious apartments of Colonel Woods have another
tenant. Bag and baggage he has quietly departed for the Pacific
Slope. Pere Francois runs on to Havre. He waves an adieu from the
"quai." It would not be possible to prove that Colonel Joe has not
gone to Switzerland. That is not the question, however. But the
padre and the colonel are now sworn allies. Joseph is the bearer
of a letter to the Archbishop of California. It carries the heart
and soul of Pere Francois. The great Church acts now.

"My dear old friend," says Woods in parting, "I propose to keep
away from Paris for a couple of years and watch Philip Hardin's
handling of this great estate. Peyton will bring the girl on, when
her coming of age calls for a legal settlement of the estate. I
don't want to strike that woman down until she braves me.

"I'm going to lure Madame de Santos over to California. If she
wants to watch me, I will be on deck every time there. I'll bring
Peyton and Louise Moreau over to San Francisco. I will never lose
sight of that child. Judge Davis shall now run my whole game. I
don't ask you who killed that woman, padre, but I will bet the de
Santos knows the hand which struck the blow.

"By leaving you, Vimont, to watch her, you may be yet able to catch
our man. We'll let her bring forward the heiress of Lagunitas, whom
she stowed away in the convent. Don't spare the cash, padre. You
can use what you want from my bankers. They will cable me at once,
at your wish. Good-bye." Joe Woods is off. His mind is bent on a
great scheme.

Pere Francois thinks of the unavenged murder of the poor maid-servant.
She is now sleeping the last sleep in Pere la Chaise. Paris has its
newer mysteries already, to chase away her memory--only one more
unfortunate.

Joe gets news after his arrival at the Golden Gate. "I will tell
you, my dear friend, that a large sum of money was due to this
woman from Madame de Santos. She was to have it the next day. I
can not see who would kill her to prevent her getting money from a
prosperous mistress. She was making her a final present on leaving
her service. Madame de Santos openly admits she intended to give
her a considerable sum of money. She has acted with commendable
kindness as to her funeral. All is quiet. The police are baffled."
This is the priest's letter.

"I cannot, at present, reveal to you all I learned from the dying
penitent. I need a higher permission. I have given you an order
to receive the original Valois marriage papers, and the baptismal
and birth certificates of Isabel Valois. She is the only child of
Maxime and Dolores Valois. Louise Moreau is the real heiress, in
my opinion, but we must prove it. I shall come to San Francisco to
watch the sequel of the guardianship of the rightful heiress.

"One person ALONE can now positively swear to this child. I shall
watch that defiant woman, until she goes to California."

High life in Paris rolls on golden wheels as always. Ernesto Villa
Rocca is a daily visitor at the Santos residence. A change has been
inaugurated by the death of Marie Berard.

There is a lovely girl there now, whose beauty shines out even by
the side of Natalie the peerless. The heiress is at home. Not even
to Villa Rocca does Natalie confide herself. The disappearance of
Louise Moreau startles her yet. The sudden death of Marie brings
her certain advantages in her once dangerous position. She has no
fear to boldly withdraw the blooming Isabel Valois, so called,
from the "Sacre Coeur," now she has learned that the legal control
of the child can only be taken from her by Hardin himself. He will
never dare to use open force as regards her. No! fear will restrain
him. The dark bond of the past prevents.

But by fraud or artifice, yes! To defeat any possible scheme, she
surrounds the young girl with every elegance of instruction and
accomplishment. She watches her like a tigress guarding its young,
But by her side, in her own home, the young "claimant" will be
surely safe. Hardin fears any public denouncement of his schemes.
Open scandal is worse than secret crime, in the high circles he
adorns.

Count Ernesto Villa Rocca does not plead immediately for madame's
hand. Wise Italian. "Chi va piano va sano." Since the fateful
evening when he promised to do a certain deed of blood for Natalie,
his ardor has chilled a little. "Particeps criminis." He revolves
the whole situation. With cool Italian astuteness, he will wait a
few months, before linking himself to the rich lady whose confidential
maid was so mysteriously murdered. There has been no hesitation,
on his part, to accept a large sum of money from Natalie. Besides,
his eye rests with burning admiration on the young girlish beauty.
Her loveliness has the added charms of untold millions, in her
future fortune. A prize. Does he dare? Ernesto Villa Rocca cannot
fathom the mysterious connection between the guardian siren and her
charge. Would he be safe to depend upon Madame de Santos' fortune?
He knows not. Has not the young girl a greater value in his eyes?

Seated in the boudoir of Natalie, with bated breath, Villa Rocca
has told Natalie what he expects as a reward for freeing her from
Marie.

Natalie hails the expiration of the minority of the "daughter
of the Dons." The millions will now fall under her own control.
Power!--social power! concrete power!

The most urgent appeals to her from Hardin cannot make her leave
France. Hardin storms. He threatens. He implores. He cannot leave
California and go to France himself. The wily wretch knows that
Natalie THERE will have a local advantage over him. Month after month
glides away. Swordplay only. Villa Rocca, dallying with Natalie,
gloats over the beauties of the ward.

Armand Valois, by invitation of Colonel Peyton, has decided to spend
a year or so in Switzerland and Germany, painting and sketching.
Louise Moreau soons becomes a proficient amateur artist. She wanders
on the lovely shores of the lake, with the gifted young American.
Love weaves its golden web. Joined heart and soul, these children
of fortune whisper their love by the throbbing bosom of the lake.

It is with the rare genius of her sly nature, a happy thought, that
Madame de Santos requests the chivalric Raoul Dauvray to instruct
her own ward in modelling and sketching. It will keep her mind
busy, and content the spirited girl. She must save her from Villa
Rocca. Dauvray is also a painter of no mean talent. A studio is
soon arranged. The merry girl, happy at her release from convent
walls, spends pleasant hours with the ex-Zouave. Drifting, drifting
daily down happy hours to the knowledge of their own ardent feelings.

Natalie absolutely debars all other visitors from meeting her young
ward. Only her physician and Pere Francois can watch these studio
labors. She fears Hardin's emissaries only.

Many visits to the studio are made by Villa Rocca. He is a lover
of the "beaux-arts."

The days fly by pleasantly. Natalie is playing a cool game now.
Pere Francois and Raoul Dauvray are ever in her charmed circle.
She dare not refuse the friendship of the inscrutable priest. She
watches, cat-like, for some sign or token of the absent Louise Moreau.
Nothing. Colonel Joseph's sagacity has arranged all communication
from the Swiss lakes, through his trusted banker. It is a blind
trail.

Vimont, eying Natalie and Villa Rocca keenly, reports that he cannot
fathom their relations. Guilty lovers? No. There is no obstacle at
all to their marriage. Then why not a consummation? "Accomplices?"
"In what crime?" "Surely none!" The count is of station undoubted.
A member of the Jockey Club. Natalie de Santos speaks frankly to
Pere Francois of her obligations to the dead woman. That mysterious
assailant still defies the famed police of Paris.

Yet around Madame de Santos a web of intrigue is woven, which even
her own keen eyes do not ferret out.

Strange woman-heart. Lonely and defiant, yet blind, she thinks she
guards her control of the budding heiress, "Isabel Valois." Waiting?

In the studio, handsome Raoul Dauvray bends glowing eyes on the
clay which models the classic beauty of Isabel Valois. The sabre
scar on his bronzed face burns red as he directs the changes
of his lovely model. Neither a Phryne nor an Aphrodite, but "the
Unawakened Venus."

A dreamy light flickers in her eyes, as she meets the burning gaze
of an artist lover.

Fighting hard against the current, the heiress of millions affects
not to understand.

It is "Monsieur Raoul," "Mademoiselle Isabel;" and all the while,
their hearts beat in unison.

Raoul, soldier-artist, Frenchman, and lover, dissembles when Villa
Rocca is present. There is a strange constraint in the girl's dark
eyes, as her idle hands cross themselves, in unconscious pose, when
they are alone.

"Lift your eyes a little, mademoiselle. Look steadily at me," is
his gentle request. He can hear the clock tick as if its beat was
the fail of a trip hammer.

When even his fastidious task can no longer delay, he says, as
the afternoon sun gilds the dome of the Invalides, throwing down
his graver, "Je n'en puis plus, mademoiselle. It is finished. I
will release you now."

As Raoul throws the cloth over the clay model, Isabel passes him
with a gasp, and gazes with set face from the window.

His bursting heart holds him back. There is no longer an excuse.

"And I shall see you no more, Monsieur Raoul?" the heiress of
millions softly says.

"Not till this is in marble, mademoiselle. A poor artist does not
mingle in your own gay world."

"But a soldier of France is welcome everywhere," the girl falters.

A mist rises to Raoul's eyes. He bears the cross of the Legion of
Honor on his breast. The perfume from her hair is blown across his
face. "Les violettes de Parme." The artist sinks in the soldier.

Springing to the window, the girl's assenting hand, cold as ice,
is clasped in his palm.

"Isabel!" he cries. She trembles like a leaf. "May the soldier
ask what the artist would not dare?" He is blind with passion.

The lovely dark-eyed girl turns a splendid face upon him, her eyes
filled with happy tears, and cries:

"Captain, you saved my life!"

The noisy clock ticks away; the only sound beside its clang is
the beating hearts which close in love's first embrace, when the
soldier knows he has won the heart of the Pearl of Paris.

"Your rank, your millions, your guardian! The Count Villa Rocca,
my enemy!" he hoarsely whispers.

The clinging beauty hands him the ribbon from her throat.

"Claim me with this!" she cries as his arms enfold her.

The dream of young love; first love; true love.

Every obstacle fades away: Lagunitas' millions; proud guardian;
scheming duenna; watchful Villa Rocca. The world is naught to the
two whose arms bind the universe in love's golden circle,

Raoul murmurs to the glowing maiden in his arms:

"And can you trust me?"

The splendid beauty clasps him closer, whispering softly:

"A Spanish girl loves once and to the death."

"But, darling," she falters, as her arms cling closer, "we must
wait and hope!"

A letter from Philip Hardin arrives, in the gayest midwinter of a
rejuvenated Paris. The time for decisive action has arrived. Natalie
revolves every clause of Hardin's proposition in her mind.

In less than a year the now blooming Isabel will be eighteen years
of age. The accounting--

Hardin is trying now to cut the legal Gordian knot. His letter
reads as follows:

I have determined to make you a proposition which should close all
our affairs. It should leave no cause for complaint. I need Isabel
Valois here, You will not trust yourself in America with our past
relations unsettled. I shall not force you, but I must do my duty
as guardian.

You are worthy of a settlement. No one knows you here now. Marry
Villa Rocca. Come here with Isabel. I will give you jointly a
fortune which will content you. I will settle upon your child the
sum of one hundred thousand dollars, to be paid over to her use when
of age. If you marry Villa Rocca now, I will give him the drafts
for the child's money. If you decide to marry him, you may ask
him to visit me here, as your agent. I will show him where your
own property is located, to the extent of half a million dollars.
This is to be turned over to you and him jointly, when you are man
and wife. This will satisfy his honor and his rank. Otherwise, I
shall soon cease my remittances. You may not be willing to do as
I wish, but the heiress must be returned to me, or you and your
child will remain without means.

Your marriage will be my safeguard and your own establishment.
Tell Villa Rocca any story of your life; I will confirm and prove
it. I shall name my bankers as trustee to join with any person
you name for your child. The principal to be paid over to her on
her marriage, to her own order. She can take any name you choose,
except mine. If this is satisfactory, cable to me, "Accepted; agent
coming." Send a letter by your agent, with a private duplicate to
me, with your wishes. HARDIN.

Natalie stands face to face with a life's decision. Can she trust
Villa Rocca? By the dark bond of crime between them she must. A
poor bond of crime. And the millions of Lagunitas. To yield them
up. A terrible temptation.

In her boudoir, Villa Rocca sums up with lightning flashes, the
merits of this proposition. It is partly unfolded to him by the
woman, who holds his pledge to marry her. "She must settle her
affairs." It is a good excuse. He smiles, as he says:

"Madonna mia, in whose name will this property be placed, if I make
you Countess Villa Rocca?"

"In our joint names, with benefit to the survivor," she replies.

"If arranged in even sums on each of us, with a reversion to me,
if you die childless, I will accept. I will go to California, and
bring the deposit for the missing child. I can make every arrangement
for your lawyer. We can go over together and marry there, when
you restore the heiress next year to her guardian." A bargain, a
compact, and a bond of safety. It suits both.

The lady despatches to Hardin her acceptance of his proposal.
In preparing a letter to the Judge she gives her "fiance" every
instruction. She permits him to mail the duplicate, carefully
compared.

In a week, Count Ernesto is tossing on the billows of the Atlantic.
He is a fashionable Columbus. He is sufficiently warned to be on his
guard in conversation with the wily Hardin. Natalie is far-seeing.

Villa Rocca laughed as he embraced his future bride. "Trust an
Italian, in finesse, cara mia."

It is arranged between the two that Hardin is to have no hint of the
character, appearance, or whereabouts of the child who receives the
bounty. The letter bears the name of "Irene Duval" as the beneficiary
of the fund. A system of correspondence is devised between them. Villa
Rocca, using his Italian consul at San Francisco as a depositary,
will be sure to obtain his letters. He will write to a discreet
friend in Paris. Perhaps a spy on herself, Natalie muses.

Still she must walk hand in hand with Villa Rocca, a new sharer of
her secret. But HE dare not talk.

When these two have said their last adieux, when Natalie sums
up her lonely thoughts, she feels, with a shudder for the future,
that not a shade of tenderness clings around this coming marriage.
Mutual passion has dissipated itself. There is a self-consciousness
of meeting eyes which tells of that dark work under the gloomy
buttresses of Notre Dame. Murder--a heavy burden!

Can they trust each other? They MUST. The weary secret of unpunished
crime grows heavier, day by day. In losing a tyrant, in the maid,
will she not gain a colder master in the man she marries? Who
knows?

Natalie Santos realizes that she has no legal proof whose hand
struck that fatal blow. But Villa Rocca can expose her to Hardin.
A fatal weakness. The anxious woman realizes what her false position
and idle luxury cost in heartache. It is life!

The roses turn to ashes on her cheeks as she paces her lonely
rooms. Restless and weary in the Bois, she is even more dull and
"distraite" in society. The repression of her secret, the daily
presence of the daughter she dares not own, all weary her heart
and soul. She feels that her power over Hardin will be gone forever
when the heiress enters upon her rights. Has the child learned to
love another? Her life is barren, a burning waste.

Money, with its myriad luxuries, must be gained by the marriage
with Villa Rocca. To see her child inherit an honored name, and in
possession of millions, will be revenge enough upon Philip Hardin.
He never shall know the truth while he lives. Once recognized, Isabel
Valois cannot be defeated in her fortune. Marie is dead. The only
one who might wish to prove the change of the two children, Hardin
himself, knows not. He must take her word. She is invincible.

Pere Francois becomes a greater comfort to her daily. The graceful
priest brings with him an air of peace into the gaudy palace on
the Elysees. She softens daily.

Raoul Dauvray has finished the artistic labors of his commissions.
He is now only an occasional visitor. If he has the love of the
heiress he dares not claim her yet. The fiery Zouave chafes in vain.
Natalie holds him off. Pere Francois whispers, "Wait and hope!"

With the blindness of preoccupation, Natalie sees not how the
tendrils of "first love" have filled the girl's heart. The young
soldier-artist rules that gentle bosom. Love finds its ways of
commune. Marriage seems impossible for years. Isabel must mount
her "golden throne" before suitors can come to woo. A sculptor!
The idea is absurd.

Not a single trace is left of "Louise Moreau." Natalie's lip curls
as she fathoms the motive of the girl's disappearance. Friends of
Marie Berard's have probably secreted her, as a part of the old
scheme of blackmail upon her. Did the secret die with her? It is
fight now. She muses: "Now they may keep her. The seal of the grave
is on the only lips which could tell the story of Lagunitas." Villa
Rocca even, does not know who the child was! His evidence would
be valueless.

If--yes, if the Dauvray household should seek to fathom the history
of the waif, how like an everyday history is the story in reply:

"Marie Berard wished to disembarrass herself of her fatherless child.
She yet wished to hold some claim on the future in its behalf. That
explains Louise Moreau's motives." There is a high wall of defence
around her whole position. Her own child dead; but where, or how?
She must invent. Walls have been scaled, my Lady of the Castle
Dangerous. The enemy is mining under your defences, in silence.

With Villa Rocca's nerve and Italian finesse, even Hardin can
be managed. If HE should die, then the dark secret of her child's
transformation is safe forever!

Days fly by. Time waits for no aching hearts. There is a smile of
satisfaction on the lovely face of Natalie. She peruses the letters
from Hardin and the count. They announce the arrangement of the
dower for the absent "Irene Duval." Villa Rocca is in San Francisco.
The count forwards one set of the drafts, without comments. He only
says he will bring the seconds, and thirds of exchange himself, He
is going to come "home."

He announces his departure to the interior with Judge Hardin. He
wishes to see the properties and interests held for Madame de Santos
by her lawyer.

In a month he will be on his homeward way; Judge Hardin has loyally
played his part. Villa Rocca's letters prove his respect for a bride
who brings him a half million. The letters warm visibly. Even an
Italian count can be impressed by solid wealth. Natalie de Santos's
lips curl in derision of man. Her clouded history is now safe.
Yes, the golden glitter of her ill-gotten fortune will cover all
inquiry as to the late "Senor de Santos," of shadowy memory. She
IS safe!

It is only a fair exchange of courtesy. She has not investigated
the family stories of the noble Villa Rocca.

Cool, suave, polished; accepted at the clubs as a man of the
world; an adept with rapier and pistol; Ernesto Villa Rocca bears
his social coronet as bravely as the premier duke of France--always
on guard!

"Does she love this man?" Natalie looks in her glass. From girlhood
she has been hunted for her beauty. Now a fortune, title, and the
oblivion of years will aid her in reigning as a mature queen. A
"mondaine" with no entanglements. Paradise opens.

Liberal in works of charity, the adventuress can glide easily
into religion. Once her feet firmly planted, she will "assume that
virtue, if she have it not."

"And then--and after all!" The last tableau before the curtain
falls. The pall of sable velvet. Natalie shudders. She remakes
her toilet and drives to the opera.

"After all, social life is but a play." Her heart beats high with
pride. Villa Rocca's return with the funds will be only a prelude
to their union. But how to insure the half million? "How?"

The count's greed and entire union in interest with her will surely
hold him faithful,

She will marry Ernesto as soon as he returns. She can trust him with
the heiress until the property is settled on the married lovers.

Hardin, when Jules Tessier's addled brains are restored by careful
nursing, receives a document from Leroyne & Co., which rouses his
inmost soul.

Jules Tessier, handsome brute, chafes under the loss of the double
blackmail. "Two hundred thousand francs," and his Marie.

To add to his anguish, he knows not where or under what name,
Marie has deposited her own golden hoard. The "Hotel Tessier" has
gone to Cloudland with the other "chateaux en Espagne"--the two
payments are lost! Jules rages at knowing that even the savings
of murdered Marie are lost to him. Even if found, they cannot be
his by law. The ruffians who robbed him of everything, have left
no trace.

The two weeks passed tossing on a hospital bed, have been lost to
the police. Dimly Jules remembers the sudden assault. Crashing
blows raining down upon him! Not a scrap of paper is left. The
fatal letter to Leroyne & Co. is gone.

The police question the artful Jules.

He holds the secret of Leroyne & Co. to himself.

He may yet get a handsome bribe to tell even the meagre facts he
knows. Marie Berard's case is one of the reigning sensations. Her
lips are now sealed in death.

The baffled police only see in the visit to the "bal de minuit,"
a bourgeois intrigue of ordinary character.

Jules dares not tell all. He fears the stern French law. Tossing
on his bed of pain, his only course is to secretly visit Leroyne
& Co.

The bereaved lover feels that the parties who followed him, were
directed by some malign agency which is fraught with future danger
for him.

The poniard of darkness may reach his heart, if he betrays his
designs.

Strongly suspecting Natalie de Santos, yet he knows her revenge
struck through meaner hands than her own.

He has no proof. Not a clue. Villa Rocca is to him unknown. He
fears to talk.

He hobbles forth to his vocation, and dares not even visit Marie's
grave.

Spies may track him as on that fatal night. And even Leroyne's bank
may be watched.

He must take this risk, for his only reward lies in that mysterious
address.

Jules, in workman's blouse, spends an hour with the grave-faced
banker of the Rue Vivienne.

When he emerges, he has ten one-thousand-franc notes in his
waist-lining and the promise of more.

The banker knows the whole story of Jules' broken hopes; of the
promised reward; the double crime.

He directs Jules Tessier to further await orders at the cafe, and
to ignore the whole affair.

A significant hint about going forth at night makes Jules shudder.
And the cipher cablegram gives Hardin the disjointed facts of
Marie's death! His one ally gone. Her lips sealed forever.

Musing in his library, Hardin's clear head unravels this intrigue.
The Paris police know not the past history of the actors in this
drama. Jules is simply greedy and thick-headed. Leroyne & Co. are
passionless bankers.

But Hardin gathers up the knotted threads and unravels all.

Accustomed to weigh evidence, to sift facts, his clear mind indicates
Natalie de Santos as the brain, Villa Rocca as the striking assassin
of this plot.

It is all aimed at him.

"Ah, yes!" the chafing lawyer muses, as he walks the legal
quarter-deck of his superb library. "Villa Rocca and Natalie are
lovers. The girl tried to blackmail them. She was trapped and put
out of the way.

"Marie Berard dead--one dangerous ally gone. Villa Rocca and
Natalie are the only two who know all. Her mind is his now.

"Ah, I have it!" with a devilish sneer. "I will separate these
two billing and cooing lovers. If I get Villa Rocca here, he will
never get back to France.

"When he is out of the way, Natalie can prove nothing.

"If she comes here I will treat her story as that of an insane
woman."

Hardin draws a glass with shaking hand.

"Yes; a private asylum."

As for the heiress, there are plans in his mind he dare not whisper.

Illegitimacy and other reasons may bar her rights. The heiress
knows nothing and she has not a paper.

Some outsider must fight this case.

In Hardin's dreams he sees his enemies at his feet. On Ernesto
Villa Rocca's handsome face is the pallor of death. Lagunitas and
its millions are his by right of power and cunning.

Marie Berard's avenger is thousands of miles away from her grave,
and his cunning plan already woven to ensnare the Italian when off
his guard. Yet Hardin's blood boils to feel that "the secret for
a price" is buried in Marie Berard's grave. Toss as he may, his
dreams do not discover the lost secret. Even Philip Hardin may
meet a Nemesis.

Villa Rocca, slain by a well-contrived accident, died for a secret
he knew not.

His own hand slew the woman who knew alone of the changelings, save
the bright and defiant ex-queen of the El Dorado.

Dark memories hover around some of the great mines of the Pacific.
Giant stock operations resulted from a seeming accidental fire.
A mine filled with water by mysterious breakage of huge pumps.
Hoisting machinery suddenly unmanageable; dashing to their doom
unsuspecting wretches. Imprisoned miners, walled up in rich drifts,
have died under stifling smoke, so that their secrets would die
with them.

Grinning Molochs of finance have turned markets on these ghastly
tricks.

Madame de Santos may never suspect how a steel spike adroitly set
could cut a rope and dash even a noble Villa Rocca to his doom,
carrying down innocent men as a mask to the crime.

In the clear sky of Natalie's complacency, a lightning stroke of
the gods brings her palace of delight crashing down around her.
Nemesis!

The telegraph flashes across the prairies, far beneath the Atlantic;
the news of Villa Rocca's death arrives. Hardin's cable is brief.
It is all-sufficient. Her trembling limbs give way. She reads:

SAN FRANCISCO.

Count Ernesto killed while visiting a mine, with friends. Accident
of hoisting machinery. I was not there. Leave to-night for the
place. Telegraph your wishes. Remain. Wait my reports. Write fully
in a few days.

HARDIN.

She is all alone on earth. This is a crushing blow. No one to trust.
None to advise, for she has leaned on Ernesto. Her mind reels under
this blow. Pere Francois is her only stay. The sorrow of these days
needs expression.

Villa Rocca's gay letters continue to arrive. They are a ghastly
mockery of these hours. Hardin can cast her off now, and claim the
heiress.

Hardin's full account dispels any suspicion of foul play. After
a visit to the interior, the count went to see some interesting
underground workings. By a hazard of mining life, a broken rope
caused the death of the visitor, with several workmen, and a mine
superintendent who was doing the honors. Death waited at the foot
of the shaft for the noble stranger.

Hundreds of days, on thousands of trips like this, the princes
of the Comstock have risked their own lives in the perils of the
yawning pits. These dark holes blown out of the mountain rocks have
their fearful death-rolls to show.

It is the revenge of the gnomes. Every detail points to a frank
explanation. Journals and reports, with letters from the Italian
consul, lifted the sad tragedy above any chance of crime or
collusion. It is kismet.

Hardin's letter was manly. In it, he pledged his honor to carry
out the agreement, advising Natalie to select a friend to accompany
her to California with the heiress, as soon as she could travel.
His banker had orders to supply funds.

"I suggest, in view of this untimely accident, you would sooner
have your funds settled on you in Europe. It shall be as you wish.
You may rely on me," so ran the closing lines.

The parted strands of the hoisting cable cannot reveal whether it
was cut or weakened, yet Hardin knows. It was his devilish masterpiece.

Days of sadness drag down the self-reliant adventuress. Whom can
she trust now? Dare she confide in Pere Francois?

A simple envelope addressed in a scrawling hand, and postmarked San
Francisco, drives all sorrow from her heart. The tiger is loosened
in her nature. She rages madly. A newspaper slip contains the
following, in flaming prominence:

"THE UNITED STATES SENATE.

"The choice of the Legislature for U. S. Senator will undoubtedly
fall upon that distinguished jurist Judge Hardin, who is now
supported by the railroad kings and leading financiers of the coast.

"It is rumored that Judge Hardin will, in the event of his election,
contract a matrimonial alliance with one of our leaders of society.
His bride will entertain extensively in the national capital."

A paper bears pithy advice:

"Come out and strike for your rights. You will find a friend to
back you up. Don't delay."

Natalie recognizes Joe Woods in this. He is the only man knowing
half the secret. Tossing on her pillow, the Queen of the El Dorado
suffers the tortures of the Inferno. Now is the time to strike
Hardin. Before the great senatorial contest. Before this cruel
marriage. She will boldly claim a secret marriage. The funds now
in the Paris bank are safe. She can blast his career. If she does
not take the heiress out, her chances vanish. And once there,
what will not Hardin do? What is Woods' motive? Jealousy. Revenge.
Hatred.

Ah, the priest! She will unbosom herself to Pere Francois. She will
urge him to accompany her and the girl to San Franciso. He will
be a "background." And his unrivalled calmness and wisdom. Pere
Francois only knows her as the "elegante" of the Champs Elysees.
She feels that Woods has been wisely discreet.

Summoning the ecclesiastic, Madame de Santos tells the story of
her claims upon Hardin.

The old Frenchman passes his rosary beads, with a clinking sound,
as he listens to the half-truths told him.

"And your child?" he queries.

"I have placed her secretly where Hardin cannot reach her. She
will be produced if needed."

There is a peculiar smile in the priest's face. "Madame, I will
accompany you on one condition."

"Name it," cries the siren, "I will furnish money, and every comfort
for you. It shall be my duty to reward you."

The priest bows gravely.

"I wish to have a resolute man with our party. My young friend,
Raoul Dauvray, has a lion's courage. Let him go with us. I do not
wish Judge Hardin to know of my presence in San Francisco. Dauvray
will guard you with his life."

"I agree to your wishes!" says madame thoughtfully. And loyal
Raoul will fight for her and his hoped-for bride. In a month there
is a notable departure from Paris. Madame de Santos, Mademoiselle
Isabel Valois, with their maids, and Raoul, "en cavalier." On the
same steamer, Pere Francois travels. He affects no intimacy with
the distinguished voyagers. His breviary takes up all his time.
Arrived at New York, Pere Francois leaves for San Francisco several
days in advance of the others.

It is singular that he goes no farther than Sacramento. The
legislature is about to assemble. Joseph Woods, as State senator,
is launched in political life. The robust miner laughs when he is
asked why he accepts these cheap honors.

"I'm not too old to learn some new tricks," he cheerfully remarks.
His questions soon exhaust Pere Francois' stock of answers.

A day's conference between the friends leads to a series of
Napoleon-like mandates of the mining Croesus. Telegraph and cable
bear abroad to the shores of the Lake of Geneva the summons which
brings Peyton, with Armand Valois and the lovely blooming "Louise
Moreau," secretly to the Pacific. Natalie knows nothing of these
pilgrims. Quietly reaching San Francisco, by a local train, Pere
Francois becomes again Padre Francisco. He rests his weary head
under the hallowing sounds of the well-remembered bells of the past
at the Mission Dolores.

Natalie de Santos rubs her eyes in wonder at the queen city of the
West, with its conquered hills and vanished sand-dunes. Whirled away
to a secure quiet retreat in a convent, selected by Pere Francois,
the heiress and her young guardian are safe from even Hardin's
wiles.

Pere Francois at New York has conferred a day with Judge Davis,
and bids his new charge be calm and trust to his own advice. Isabel
Valois is in a maze of new impressions, and bewildered by a strange
language.

Bravely attired, and of a generous port, Raoul Dauvray installs
himself in one of the palatial hotels which are the pride of the
occidental city. Colonel Joseph Woods is conspicuously absent.

When the fatigue of travel is over, Natalie de Santos quietly summons
Philip Hardin to the interview she dreads. She has been prepared
by Pere Francois for this ordeal. Yet her tiger blood leaps up in
bubbling floods. She will at last face the would-be traitor, and
upbraid him. Oh, for one resolute friend!

It is in another convent that lovely "Isabel Valois" is concealed.
The heiress longs to burst her bonds. Is not Raoul near her?
Assured of a necessity for patience, the wayward beauty bides her
time. Every day the roses she caresses, whisper to her of the ardent
lover who sighs near her in vain.

Philip Hardin steels himself to face the woman he intends to trick
and deceive at the very last. There are such things as insane
asylums in California, if she makes any hubbub.

But he has a "coup d'etat" in his mind. The old schemer will bring
Natalie to terms. Flattery first; fear afterwards.

"And they are face to face once more."






CHAPTER XIX.

LOVERS ONCE.--STRANGERS NOW.--FACE TO FACE.





Ushered into a private room, the soulless Hardin's iron nerves
fail him. His heart leaps up wildly when royal "Madame de Santos"
approaches silently. Heavens! Her startling beauty is only mellowed
with time. Another woman than the Hortense Duval of old stands
before him. A goddess.

She has grown into her new role in life.

"Hortense!" he eagerly cries, approaching her.

"Spare me any further deceit, Philip," she coldly replies. Seating
herself, she gazes at him with flaming eyes! She is a queen at
bay!

He is startled. A declaration of war. No easy mastery now.

"Where is your charge?" Hardin queries.

"Where you will not see her, until we understand each other,"
rejoins the determined woman. Her steady glance pierces his very
soul. Memories of old days thrill his bosom.

"What do you mean by all this?" Hardin's nerve returns. He must
not yield to mortal.

The woman who queened it over his home, extends a jewelled hand
with an envelop. "Explain this," she sharply cries.

The Judge reads it. It is the announcement of his double senatorial
and matrimonial campaign.

"Is there any foundation for that report?" Madame de Santos
deliberately asks.

"There is," briefly rejoins the lawyer. He muses a moment. What
devil is awakened in her now? This is no old-time pleading suppliant.

"Then you will not see Isabel until you have settled with me and
provided the funds promised before the death of the count."

"Ah!" sneers the old advocate; "I understand you NOW, madame. Blood
money!"

"Partly," remarks Madame de Santos. "I also insist upon your giving
up this marriage."

Hardin springs from his chair. Age has robbed him of none of his
cold defiance. He will crush her.

"You dare to dream of forcing me to marry you?" His eyes have the
glitter of steel.

"You need not give up the senate, but you must marry me, privately,
and give your own child a name. Then I will leave, with the funds
you will provide. You can separate from me afterward by the mere
lapse of time. There will be no publicity needed."

"Indeed!" Hardin snarls, "A nice programme, You have had some
meddling fool advise you; some later confidant; some protector."

"Exactly so, Judge," replies the woman, her bosom heaving in scorn
and defiance. "We have lived together. We are privately married
now by law! Philip, you know the nameless girl you have never asked
for is your own child."

Hardin paces the floor in white rage. He gazes sternly in her eyes.
She regards his excited movements, glaring with defiant eyes. A
tigress at bay.

"I will end this here, madame! In two weeks Isabel Valois will be
eighteen. If she is not forthcoming I will invoke the law. If I
am forced to fight you, you will not have a cent from me. I will
never marry you! I decline to provide for you or yours, unless you
yield this girl up. You must leave the country before the senatorial
election. That is my will."

Natalie faces her old lover. Tyrant of her heart once, he is now
a malignant foe!

"Philip Hardin," she pleads, "look out of that window. You can see
the house my child was born in--YOUR home, OUR home! Philip, give
that child a name; I will leave you in peace forever!" There is
the old music in her velvet voice.

"Never!" cries the Judge. "Give up the girl you took away. Leave
at once. I will secure your fortune. You cannot force me. You never
could. You cannot now!" He glares defiance to the death.

His eyes tell the truth. He will not yield,

"Then God help you, Philip," the woman solemnly says. "You will
never reach the Senate! You will never live to marry another
woman!"

"Do you threaten me, you she-devil?" snarls Hardin, alarmed at
the settled, resolute face. "I have a little piece of news for
you which will block your game, my lady. There is no proof of the
legitimacy of the child, Isabel Valois. A claim has already been
filed by a distant Mexican relative of the Peraltas. The suit will
come up soon. If the girl is declared illegitimate, you can take
her back to France, and keep her as a beggar. You are in my hands!"
He chuckles softly.

"Philip Hardin, you are a liar and a monster. This is your conspiracy.
Now, show yourself a thief, also." Natalie retorts. The words cut
the proud man like a lash.

He seizes her jewelled wrist. He is beside himself.

"Beware," she hisses. "By the God who made me, I'll strike you
dead."

He recoils.

She is once more the queen of the El Dorado. Her ready knife is
flashing before his eyes. "You have a fearful reckoning to answer.
You will meet your match yet at the game of Life!" she cries.

But, Natalie de Santos is stunned by his devilish plot to rob the
despoiled orphan even of her name. He reads her face. "I will
give you a day to think this over. I will come to-morrow." Hardin's
voice rings with ill-concealed triumph.

"Not ten minutes will you give me. I tell you now I will crush you
in your hour of victory, if I die to do it. Once more, will you
marry me and give your child a name?" She rises and paces room, a
beautiful fury.

"You have your answer," he coldly replies.

"Then, may the plundered orphan's curse drag you down to the hell
you merit," is Natalie's last word as she walks swiftly out of the
door. She is gone.

He is alone. Somethings rings with dull foreboding in his ears as
his carriage rolls away. An orphan's curse! A cold clammy feeling
gnaws at his heart. An orphan's curse!

Ah! from the tomb of buried years the millionaire hears the voice
of Maxime Valois and shudders:

"May God deal with you as you deal with my child."

At home, in his library, where the silken rustling of that woman's
dress has thrilled him in bygone years, the old Judge drinks a
glass of cognac and slowly recovers his mental balance.

Through smoke-clouds he sees the marble chamber of the Senate of
the Great Republic. He must move on to the marriage, he has deferred
until the election. It is a pledge of twenty votes in joint ballot.

As for the girl Isabel, why, there is no human power to prove her
legitimacy now. That priest. Bah! Dead years ago. Silence has
rolled the stone over his tomb.

Hardin has foreseen for years this quarrel with Natalie de Santos.
But she can prove absolutely nothing. He will face her boldly. She
is ALONE in the world. He can tear the veil aside and blacken her
name.

And yet, as evening falls, his spirit sinks within him. He can
not, will not, marry the woman who has defied him. What devil, what
unseen enemy put her on his track again? If he had never trusted
her. Ah, too late; too late!

Secretly he had laid his well-devised mines. The judge in Mariposa
is weighted down with a golden bribe. The court officials are under
his orders. But who is the unknown foe counselling Natalie? He
cannot fathom it. Blackmail! Yes, blackmail.

In three days Hardin is at Sacramento. His satellites draw up their
cohorts for the senatorial struggle. If the legislature names him
senator, then his guardianship will be quickly settled before the
Mariposa Court. There, the contest will be inaugurated, which will
declare Isabel Valois a nameless child of poverty. This is the last
golden lock to the millions of Lagunitas, The poor puppet he has
set up to play the contestant is under his control. He had wished
to see Natalie homeward bound before this denouement. It must be.
He muses. Kill her! Ah, no; too dangerous. He must FOIL her.

But her mad rage at his coming marriage. Well, he knew the ambitious
and stately lady who aspired to share his honors would condone the
story of his early "bonnes fortunes." What could lonely Natalie
do at the trial? Nothing. He has the Court in his pocket. He will
brave her rage.

Hardin writes a final note, warning the woman he fears, to attend
with the heiress on the day of the calling for his accounting.

Marvels never cease. He tears open the answer, after two sleepless
nights. She simply replies that the young Lady of Lagunitas will be
delivered to him on the appointed day. He cannot read this riddle.
Is it a surrender in hopes of golden terms? He knows not of Pere
Francois' advice.

He smiles in complacent glee. He has broken many a weak woman's
nerve: she is only one more.

While he ponders, waiting that reply, Natalie Santos, with heavy
heart, tells the priest the story of her tryst with her old lover.

Pere Francois smiles thoughtfully. He answers: "Be calm. You will
be protected. Trust to me. I will confer with our advisers. Not
a word to Isabel of impending trouble."

The little court-house at Mariposa is not large enough for the
crowd which pours in to see the Lady of Lagunitas when the fated
day approaches. It is the largest estate in the country. A number
of strangers have arrived. They are targets for wild rumors. Several
grave-looking arrivals are evidently advocates. There is "law" in
their very eyebrows.

Raoul Dauvray escorts Madame de Santos and the girl whose rumored
loveliness is famous already. Philip Hardin, with several noted
counsel, is in readiness. Pere Francois is absent. There is an
elderly invalid, with an Eastern party of strangers, who resembles
him wonderfully.

On the case being reached, there is a busy hum of preparation.
One or two professional-looking men of mysterious identity quietly
take their places at the bar. In the clerk's offices there is also
a bevy of strangers. By a fortuitous chance, the stalwart form of
Colonel Joe Woods illuminates the dingy court-room. His business
is not on the calendar, He sits idly playing with a huge diamond
ring until the "matter of the guardianship of Isabel Valois" is
reached.

Several lawyers spring to their feet at once. A queer gleam is
in Joe Woods' eye as he nods carelessly to Hardin. They are both
Knights of the Golden Circle.

Judge Hardin's counsel opens the case, Hardin passes Natalie in
the court-room, with one last look of warning and menace. There
is no quiver to her eyelids. The graceful figure of a veiled young
girl is beside her.

When Hardin's advocate ceases, counsel rises to bring the contest
for the heirship of Lagunitas to the judicial notice of the Court.

The Judge is asked to stay the confirmation of the guardian's
accounts and reports. His Honor blandly asks if the young lady is
in court.

"Let Isabel Valois take the stand," is the direction.

Judge Hardin arises and passing to Natalie Santos, whose glittering
eyes are steadily fixed on his, in an inscrutable gaze, leads the
young lady beside her to the stand. Natalie has whispered a few
words of cheer.

All eyes are fixed upon the beautiful stranger, who is removing a
veil from a face of the rarest loveliness. There is a sensation.

Philip Hardin rises to his feet, ghastly pale, as Joseph Woods
quietly leads up to the platform a slight, girlish form. It is
another veiled woman, who quietly seats herself beside the claimant.

There is amazement in the court-room, "His Honor," with a startled
glance at Judge Hardin, who is gazing vacantly at the two figures
before him, says, "Which of these young ladies is Miss Isabel
Valois?"

A voice is heard. It is one of the strange counselors speaking.

Hardin hears the words, as if each stabbed him to the heart.

"Your Honor, we are prepared to show that the last young lady who
has taken the stand, is Miss Isabel Valois."

There is consternation in the assembly. Hardin's veins are knotted
on his forehead. He stares blankly at the two girls. His eyes turn
to Natalie de Santos. She is gazing as if the grave had given up
its dead. Her cheeks whiten to ashes. Pere Francois, Henry Peyton,
and Armand Valois enter and seat themselves quietly by the side
of the man who is speaking. What does this all mean? No one knows.
The lawyer resumes.

"We will show your Honor, by the evidence of the priest who baptized
her, and by the records of the church, that this young lady is the
lawful and only child of Maxime Valois and Dolores Peralta. We
have abundant proof to explain the seeming paradox. We are in a
position to positively identify the young lady, and to dispose of
the contest raised here to-day, as to the marriage of the parents
of the real heiress."

Philip Hardin has sprung to his lawyers. They are amazed at the
lovely apparition of another Isabel Valois. At the bidding of the
Court, Louise Moreau's gentle face appears.

"And who is the other young lady, according to your theory?" falters
the astounded judge, who cannot on the bench receive the support
of his Mephistopheles.

"We will leave that to be proved, your Honor! We will prove OUR
client to be Isabel Valois. We will prove the other lady not to
be. It remains for the guardian, who produces her, to show who she
may be." The lawyer quietly seats himself.

There is a deadlock. There is confusion in court. Side by side
are seated two dark-eyed girls, in the flush of a peerless young
womanhood. Lovely and yet unlike in facial lines, they are both
daughters of the South. Their deep melting eyes are gazing, in
timid wonder, at each other. They are strangers.

"What is the name of your witness?" the judge mechanically questions.
The lawyer calmly answers, "Francois Ribaut (known in religion
as 'Padre Francisco'), who married the father and mother of this
young lady, and also baptized her."

A faint sob from Natalie breaks the silence. Her eyes are filled
with sudden tears. She knows the truth at last. The priest has
risen. Hardin looks once more upon that pale countenance of the
padre which has haunted his dreams so long. "Is it one from the
dead?" he murmurs. But, with quick wit, his lawyer demands to place
on the witness stand, the lady charged with the nurture of "Isabel
Valois." Philip Hardin gazes wolfishly at the royal beauty who is
sworn. A breathless silence wraps the room.

The preliminary questions over, while Hardin's eyes rove wildly over
the face of the woman he has cast off, the direct interrogatory is
asked:

"Do you know who this young lady is?" says the attorney, with
a furtive prompting from Hardin. "I do!" answers the lady, with
broken voice.

Before another question can be asked, the colleagues of Hardin's
leading lawyer hold a whispered colloquy with their chief.

There is a breathless silence in the court. The principal attorney
for the guardian asks the Court for a postponement of two weeks.

"We were prepared to meet an inquiry into the legitimacy of the
ward of our client. This production of another claimant to the
same name, is a surprise to us. On account of the gravity of this
matter, we ask for a stay."

No objection is heard. His Honor, anxious himself to have time
to confer with the would-be senator, adjourns the hearing for two
weeks.

Before Hardin could extricate himself from the circle of his
advisers, the long-expected girl he has seen for the first time
has disappeared with Madame de Santos. He has no control over her
now. Too late!

His blood is bounding through his veins. He has been juggled with.
By whom? Natalie, that handsome fiend. And yet, she was paralyzed
at the apparition of the second beauty, who has also vanished.

He must see Natalie at once before she can frame a new set of lies.
After all, the MINE is safe.

As he strides swiftly across the plaza, the thought of the senatorial
election, and the lady whom he has to placate, presses on his mind.

As for the election, he will secure that. If Natalie attempts
exposure, he will claim it to be a blackmail invention of political
enemies. Ha! Money! Yes, the golden arguments of concrete power.
He will use it in floods of double eagles.

He will see Natalie on her way to Paris before the second hearing.
Yes, and send some one out of the State to watch her as far as New
York. He must buy her off.

A part of the money in hand; the rest payable at Paris to her own
order. She must be out of the way.

Mariposa boasts two hotels. The avoidance of Hardin's friends brings
all the strangers, perforce, together in the other. They have been
strangely private in their habits.

Philip Hardin's brow is set. It is no time for trifling. He sends
his name up to Madame de Santos. She begs to be excused. "Would
Judge Hardin kindly call in the evening?"

This would be after a council of war of his enemies. It must be
prevented. He pens a few words on a scrap of paper, and waits with
throbbing pulses,

"Madame will receive him." As he walks upstairs, he realizes he has
to face a reckoning with Joe Woods. He will make that clumsy-headed
Croesus rue the day. And yet Woods is in the State Senate, and may
oppose his election.

With his eyes fixed on the doors of Natalie's apartment, he does
not notice Woods gazing at him, from the end of the hall, in the
open door of the portico.

Natalie motions him to a seat as he enters. He looks at her in
amazement. She is not the same woman who entered that court-house.
He speaks. The sound of his own voice makes him start.

"What is all this devil's tomfoolery? Explain it to me. Are you
mad?" His suppressed feelings overmaster him. He gives way to an
imprudent rage.

"Are you ready to marry me? Are you ready to keep the oath you
swore to stand by me?" Her dark eyes burn into his heart. She is
calm, but intense in her demand.

"Tell me the truth or I'll choke it out of you," he hisses, grasping
her rudely.

His rashness breaks the last bond between them. A shriek from the
struggling woman echoes through the room.

The door flies open.

Hardin is hurled to the wall, reeling blindly.

The energetic voice of Joe Woods breaks the silence. "You are a
mean dog, but, by God, I did not think you'd strangle a woman."

Hardin has struggled to his feet. In his hand, flashes a pistol.

Joe Woods smiles.

"Trying the old El Dorado dodge, Judge, won't work. Sit down now.
Listen to me. Put up that shooting iron, or I'll nail you to the
wall."

His bowie knife presses a keen point to Hardin's breast. It is
checkmate.

Natalie Santos is buried in the cushions of her chair. She is sobbing
wildly. Shuffling feet are at the door. The fracas has been overheard.

Joe Woods quietly opens it. He speaks calmly. "The lady has fainted.
It's all right. Go away."

Through the door a girl's lovely face is seen, in frightened shyness.
"I'll send for you, miss, soon," Colonel Joe remarks, with awkward
sympathy.

He seats himself nonchalantly.

"Now, Hardin, I've got a little account to settle with you. I'll
give you all the time you want. But I'll say right here before this
lady, I know you are under an obligation to treat her decently.

"I remember her at the El Dorado!"

Hardin springs to his feet. Natalie raises her tearful eyes.

"Keep cool, Judge," continues the speaker. "You used to take care
of her. Now I'm a-going to advise her in her little private affairs.
I want you to let her severely alone. I want you to treat her as she
deserves; like a woman, not a beast. You can finish this interview
with her. I'm a-going out. If you approach her after this, without
my presence or until she sends for you, I'll scatter your brains
with my old six-shooter. I shall see she gets a square deal. She's
not going to leave California till this whole business is cleared
up. You hear me." Joe's mood is dangerous.

"Now go ahead with your palaver, madame. I'm not going to leave
the house. I know my business, and I'll stand by you as long as my
name is Joe Woods. When you're done I want you to see me, and see
my lawyer."

There is silence. Natalie's eyes give the stalwart miner a glance
of unutterable thankfulness.

She has met a man at last.

Her bosom heaves with pride, her eyes beam on rough old Joe. Woods
has taken out an unusually long cigar. He lights it at the door,
and leisurely proceeds to smoke it on the upper veranda.

When his foot-fall dies away, Hardin essays to speak. His lips
are strangely dry. He mutters something, and the words fail him.
Natalie interrupts, with scorn: "Curse you and your money, you
cowardly thief. You have met your match at last. I trusted to your
honor. Your hands were on my throat just now. I have but one word
to say to you now. Go, face that man out there!" Hardin is in a
blind rage.

His legal vocabulary finds no ready phrase of adieu. His foot is
on the top stair. Joe Woods says carelessly:

"Judge, you and I had better have a little talk to-night." Ah,
his enemy! He knows him at last. Hardin hoarsely mutters: "Where?
when?"

"When you please," says Woods.

"Ten, to-night; your room. I'll bring a friend with me." Hardin
nods, and passes on, crossing the square to his hotel. He must have
time for thought; for new plans; for revenge; yes, bloody revenge.

Colonel Joseph Woods spends an hour in conference with Peyton and
Father Francois. Their plans are all finished.

Judge Davis, who is paralyzed by the vehemence of California
character, caresses his educated whiskers. He pets his eye-glasses,
while the three gentlemen confer. He is essentially a man of peace.
He fears he may become merely a "piece of man" in case the appeal
to revolvers, or mob law, is brought into this case. They do things
differently in New York.

While the two lovely girls are using every soothing art of womanly
sympathy to care for Natalie, it begins to dawn upon each of them
that their futures are strangely interlinked. The presence of Madame
de Santos seals their lips. They long for the hour when they can
converse in private. They know now that the redoubtable Joe Woods
has TWO fatherless girls to protect instead of ONE.

Natalie Santos, lying on her couch, watches these young beauties
flitting about her room. "Does the heiress, challenged in her
right, dream of her real parentage?" A gleam of light breaks in on
the darkness of her sufferings. Why not peace and the oblivion of
retirement for her, if her child's future is assured in any way?
Why not?

Looking forward hopefully to a conference with Colonel Joe, she
fears only the clear eyes of old Padre Francisco. "Shall she tell
him all?" In these misgivings and vain rackings of the mind, she
passes the afternoon. She yields to her better angel, and gives
the story of her life to the patient priest.

Armand Valois and Raoul Dauvray have a blessed new bond of brotherhood.
They are both lovers. With Padre Francisco, they are a guard of
honor, watching night and day the two heiresses.

They share the secret consciousness of Natalie de Santos that Joe
Woods has in store some great stroke.

Judge Davis, Peyton, and the resolute Joe are the only calm ones in
the settlement. For, far and wide the news runs of racy developments.
In store, saloon, and billiard lounging-place, on the corners, and
around the deserted court-room, knots of cigar-smoking scandal-mongers
assuage their inward cravings by frequent resort to the never-failing
panacea--whiskey. Wild romances are current, in which two great
millionaires, two sets of lawyers, duplicate heiresses, two foreign
dukes, the old padre and the queenly madame are the star actors in
a thrilling local drama, which is so far unpunctuated by the crack
of the revolver.

It is a struggle for millions, and the clash of arms will surely
come.

There has been no great issue ever resolved in Mariposa before the
legal tribunal, which has not added its corpses to the mortuary
selections lying in queer assortment on the red clay hillsides.

"Justice nods in California while the pistols are being drawn."

Hardin, closeted with his lawyers, suspends their eager plotting,
to furtively confer in private with the judge.

When the first stars sweep into the blue mountain skies, and
a silver moon rises slowly over the pine-clad hills, Joseph Woods
summons all his latent fascinations to appease Madame Natalie de
Santos. The sturdy Missourian has had his contretemps with Sioux
and Pawnee. He has faced prairie fires, stampeded buffalo herds,
and met dangers by flood and field. Little personal discussions
with horse thieves, some border frays, and even a chance encounter
on a narrow trail with a giant grizzly, have tried his nerve. But
he braces with a good stiff draught of cognac now. He fears the
wily and fascinating Natalie. He is at heart a would-be lady's
man. Roughness is foreign to his nature, but he will walk the grim
path of duty.

When he thinks of flinching, there rises on his memory the lonely
grave where Peyton laid Maxime Valois to rest on the bloody field
of Peachtree Creek, with the stars and bars lying lightly on his
gallant breast. And he calmly enters the presence of the once famous
siren.

There is a mute entreaty in her eyes, as she motions him to a seat.

Joseph toys nervously with the huge diamond, which is a badge "de
rigueur" of his rank and grade as a bonanza king.

"I do not wish to agitate or distress you, madame," begins Joe,
and his voice is very kind.

"I broke out a little on Hardin; all bluff, you know. Just to show
him a card. Now will you trust and let me help you? I mean to bring
you out all right. I can't tell you all I know. I am going to fight
Hardin on another quarrel. It will be to the death. I can just as
well square your little account too, if you will trust me. Will
you let me handle your movements, up to the legal issue. After that
you are free. I'll give you the word of an honest man, you shall
not suffer. Will you trust me?"

Joe's big eyes are looking very appealingly in hers.

Without a word, she places her hand in his. "I am yours until that
time, but spare me as much as you can--the old histories, you know,"
her voice falters. She is a woman, after all.

"Now see here, madame! I swear to you I am the only private man in
California who knows your secret, except Hardin, now. I got it in
the days long past. No one shall know your identity." He fixes a
keen glance on her: "Is there anyone else you wish to spare?" he
softly says.

"Yes." She is sobbing now. "It is my child. Don't let her know
that awful past."

Joseph's eyes are filled with manly sorrow. He whispers with
eagerness:

"Her father is"--

"Philip Hardin," falters the woman, whose stately head is now bowed
in her hands.

"I'll protect that child. She shall never want a friend, if you do
one thing," Joe falters.

Natalie raises a white face to his.

"What is it?" she huskily whispers.

"Will you swear, in open court, which of these two girls is your
own child, if I ask you to?" He is eager and pleading.

She reads his very soul. She hesitates. "And you will protect the
innocent girl, against his wrath?" There is all a mother's love in
her appeal.

"Both of you. I swear it. You shall not want for money or protection,"
Joe solemnly says.

"Then, I will!" Natalie firmly answers.

He springs to her side.

"Does Hardin know which girl is his daughter?"

"He does not!" Natalie says slowly.

There is a silence; Joe can hear his own heart beat. Victory at
last.

"I have nothing to ask you, except to see no one but myself, Padre
Francisco, or my lawyer. If Hardin wants to see you, I'll be present.
Now I am going to see him to-night. You will be watched over night
and day. I am going to have every precaution taken. I shall be near
you always. Rest in safety. I think I can save you any opening up
of the old days.

"I will see you early."

Her hands clasp his warmly! She says: "Colonel, send Pere Francois
to me. I will tell him all you need to know. He will know what to
keep back."

"That's right," cries Joseph, warmly. "I know how to handle Hardin
now. You can bank on the padre. He's dead game."

"And your reward?" Natalie whispers, with bowed head.

A wild thought makes the blood surge to Joe's brain. He slowly
stammers, "My reward?" His eyes tell him he must make no mistake.
A flash of genius.

"You will square my account, madame, if you make no objection to
the immediate marriage of your daughter to Dauvray. He's a fine
fellow for a Frenchman, and she shall never know this story. She'll
have money enough. I'll see to that." Joe's voice is earnest.

Natalie's arms are stretched to him in thanks. "In God's name, be
it, my noble friend."

Joe dares not trust himself longer.

He retires, leaving Natalie standing, a splendid statue, with
shining, hopeful eyes. Her blessing follows him; sin-shadowed though
she be, it reaches the Court of Heaven.

Natalie, in silent sorrow, sees her labor of years brushed away.
Her child can never be the heiress of Lagunitas. Fate has brought
the gentle Louise Moreau to the very threshold of her old home.
It is Providence. Destiny. The all-knowing Pere Francois reveals
to her how strangely the life-path of the heiress has been guarded.
"My daughter," the priest solemnly says, "be comforted. Right shall
prevail. Trust me, trust Colonel Woods. Your child may fall heir
yet to a name and to her own inheritance. The ways of Him who
pardons are mysterious." He leaves her comforted and yet not daring
to break the seal of silence to the lovely claimants.

While Pere Francois confers with Natalie, as the moon sails high
in heaven over the fragrant pines, Woods and Peyton exchange a few
quiet words over their cigars.

By the repeater which Joe consults it is now a quarter of ten. The
two gentlemen stroll over the grassy plaza. By a singular provincial
custom each carries a neat navy revolver, where a hand could drop
easily on it. Joe also caresses his favorite knife in his overcoat
pocket.

In five minutes they are seated with Philip Hardin in his room. There
is an air of gloomy readiness in Hardin which shows the unbending
nature of the man. He is alone. Woods frankly says: "Judge Hardin,
I wish you to know my friend, Mr. Henry Peyton. If anything should
happen to me, he knows all my views. He will represent me. As you
are alone, I will ask Mr. Peyton to wait for me below."

Henry Peyton bows and passes downstairs, where he is regarded as
an archangel of the enemy. For the Hardin headquarters are loyal to
their great chief. The man who controls the millions of Lagunitas
is surrounded by his loyal body-guard at Mariposa.

When the two men are alone, Woods waits for Hardin to speak. He is
silent. There is a gulf between them which never can be bridged.
Joseph feels he is no match for Hardin in chicanery, but he has
his little surprise in store for the lawyer. It is an armed truce.

"Hardin, I've come over to-night to talk a little politics with
you," begins Joseph. His eye is glued on the Judge's, who steadily
returns the glance.






CHAPTER XX.

JUDGE HARDIN MEETS HIS MATCH.--A SENATORIAL ELECTION.--IN A MARIPOSA
COURT-ROOM.--THE TRUST FULFILLED AT LAGUNITAS.





"You need not trouble yourself about my political aspirations,
sir," haughtily remarks Hardin, glaring at the stolid visitor,
who calmly continues.

"I don't allow no trouble, Jedge," Woods drawls. "I'll play
my cards open. I run this here joint convention, which makes or
breaks you. I'm dead-flat plain in my meaning. I can burst up your
election as United States Senator, unless you and me can make 'a
deal.'"

"Your terms?" sneers Hardin, with a glance at Joe's hand in his
pocket, "Toujours pret" is Joseph's motto.

"Oh, my terms! I'll be open, Jedge. I leave this here lawsuit between
us, to our lawyers. I will fight you fair in that. You will find
me on the square."

"Do you threaten me, sir?" demands Hardin.

"Now, make your own game." Joe's brow darkens. "Hardin, I want
you to hear me out; you can take it then, in any shape you want
to. Fight or trade." Woods' old Missouri grit is aroused.

"Go on," says Hardin, with a rising gorge.

"You're talking marriage." Joe's sneer maddens Hardin." I tell you
now to settle old scores with the lady whom I found in your hands
to-night. If you don't, you're not going to the Senate."

Hardin gathers himself. Ah, that hand in the pocket!

"Don't make a mistake, Jedge," coldly interjects Woods. "Drop that
gun. We're no bravos."

"I positively decline to have any bargain with you on my private
matters. After you leave this room, you can look out for yourself,
if you cross my path," hisses the Judge, his face pale and ghastly.

"Now, Jedge," Joe snaps out, "watch your own scalp. Hardin, I'll
not dodge you. You are going on the wrong road. We split company
here. But there's room enough in California for you and me. As for
any 'shooting talk,' it's all bosh. You will get in a hot corner,
unless you hear me out. I tell you now, to acknowledge your child
by that woman. Save your election; save yourself, old man.

"She'll go off to France, but you've got to give her child a square
name and a set-out."

"Never!" yells Hardin, forgetting himself, as with blind rage he
points to the door.

"All right," says Joseph, coolly. "You'll never be senator till
you send for me. You have fair warning. My cards are face-up on
the table." Hardin, speechless with rage, sees him disappear.

Peyton and Joe Woods walk over the silent plaza, with the twinkling
stars sweeping overhead. They exchange but few words. They seek
the rest of their pillows. Joe's prayers consist of reloading his
revolvers.

The last watcher in Mariposa is Hardin, the hate of hell in
his heart. A glass of neat brandy is tossed off. He throws himself
heavily on the bed. The world is a torment to him now. "On to
Sacramento" is his last thought. Money, in hoards and heaps, will
drown this rich booby's vain interference. For, legislatures sell
senatorial honors in California openly like cabbage in a huckster's
wagon, only at higher prices.

Before the gray squirrels are leaping on the madronas and nutty oaks
next dawn of day, Hardin is miles away towards the State capital.
His legal forces remain. He takes one trusty agent, to distribute
his golden arguments.

When Woods leisurely finishes his breakfast he strolls under the
pines with Pere Francois. There are also two youthful couples.
They are reading lessons, not of law, but of love, in each other's
shining eyes as they wander in the lonely forest paths.

Seated by a dashing mountain brook which runs past the town, Pere
Francois gravely informs Joe that Natalie de Santos has given him
the dark history of her chequered life. Though the seal of the
confessional protects it, he has her consent to supply Woods and
Judge Davis with certain facts. Her sworn statements will verify
these if needed.

After a long interview with Madame de Santos, Colonel Joseph follows
Hardin to Sacramento. He has one or two resolute friends with him
as a guard against the coarse Western expedient of assassination.
He knows Hardin's deft touches of old.

As the stage rattles around dizzy heights, below massy cliffs,
swinging under the forest arches, the Missouri champion reasons out
that Hardin's hands are tied personally as regards a bloody public
quarrel, by the coming senatorial fight. To pluck the honors of the
Senate at last from a divided State, is a testimony to the lawyer's
great abilities. Joe thinks, with a sigh of regret, that some mere
animated money-bag may sit under the white dome, and misrepresent
the sovereign State of California. "Well, if Hardin won't bend,
he's got to break." The miner puffs his cigar in search of wisdom.

Single-minded and unswerving, Woods goes directly to his splendid
rooms at the "Golden Eagle," on reaching Sacramento.

The capital city of the State is crowded with legislators and attaches.
The lobby banditti, free lances, and camp followers of the annual
raid upon the pockets of the people are on guard. While his meal is
being served in his parlor, he indites a note to Hardin's political
Mark Antony. It will rest with him to crown a triumph or deliver
his unheard oration over the body of a politically dead Caesar.
The billet reads:

"I want you instantly, on a matter deciding Hardin's election. You
can show him this."

In half an hour, over burgundy and the ever-flowing champagne,
Woods, feeling his visitor in good humor, fires his first gun. He
begins with half-shut eyes, in a genial tone:

"Harris, I have sent for you to tell you Hardin and me have locked
horns over some property. Now I won't vote for him, but I'll hold
off my dogs. I won't work against him if he signs a sealed paper
I'm goin' to give you. If he don't, I'll open out, and tell an old
yarn to our secret nominating caucus. I am solidly responsible for
the oration. He will be laid out. It rests only with his friends
then, to spread this scandal. He has time to square this. It does
not hang on party interests. I am a man of my word, you know.
Now, I leave it to you to consider if he has any right to ask his
friends to back him in certain defeat. See him quick. If he tells
you to hear the story from me, I will tell you all. If he flies
the track, I am silent until the caucus. THEN, I will speak, if
I'm alive. If I am dead, my pard will speak for me. My death would
seal his utter ruin. I can stand the consequences. He has got to
come up to the captain's office and settle." The astounded Harris
gloomily muses while Woods quietly inscribes a few lines on a sheet
of paper. He seals the envelop, and hands it to Senator Harris.

"I won't leave this camp, Harris, till I get your answer," calmly
remarks Joseph. He refuses to waste more words in explanation.
"See Hardin," is his only phrase. "It's open war then between him
and me."

Harris, with a very grave face, enters the private rooms of Judge
Hardin at the Orleans Hotel.

Hardin listens, with scowling brow as black as night. He tears open
the envelop! His faithful henchman wonders what can bring night's
blackness to Judge Hardin's face.

The lines are a careful acknowledgment of the paternity of the girl
child of "Natalie de Santos," born at San Francisco and now about
eighteen years of age. It closes with a statement of her right to
inherit as a lawful heiress from him.

"I will shoot that dog on sight, if he carries out this threat,"
deliberately says Hardin.

"Judge," coldly replies his lieutenant, "does this note refer to
public affairs, or to party interests?"

"Private matters!" replies Hardin, his eyes flashing.

"Then, let me say, I will keep silent in this matter. I shall
ask you to name some other man to handle your candidacy before the
Legislature. Joe Woods is honest, and absolutely of iron nerve.
You can send for any of your other friends, and choose a man to
take my place. I won't fight Joe. Woods never lied in his life.

"If you will state that you have adjusted this difference with him,
I am at your service. Let me know your decision soon. He waits for
me. In all else, I am yours, as a friend, but I will not embroil
the State now for a mere private feud. Send for me, Judge, when
you have decided."

In the long and heated conferences of the night, before the
sun again pours its shimmering golden waves on the parched plains
of Sacramento, Hardin finds no one who will face the mysterious
situation.

Harris finds the patient Joe playing seven-up with a couple of
friends, and his pistols on the table.

"All right, Harris; let him think it over." Joe nods, and continues
his game.

Calmly expectant, when Harris sends his name up next morning,
Joe Woods is in very good humor. The gathering forces are anxious
for the hour when a solemn secret party caucus shall name the man
to be officially balloted in as Senator of the United States for
six years. The term is not to begin for three months, but great
corporations, the banks, with their heaped millions, and all the
mighty high-priests of the dollar-god, need that sense of security
which Hardin's ability will give to their different schemes. Their
plans can be safely laid out then.

In simple straightforwardness, Harris hands Woods a sealed envelop,
without a word.

In the vigils of one awful night, Philip Hardin knows that he must
fence off the maddened woman who seems to have a mysterious hold
upon his destiny at this crisis. What force impels her?

Hardin has enjoined Harris to have Woods repeat his pledge of
"non-opposition."

"Did you see the Jedge sign this here paper?" says Woods dryly, as
he inspects the signature. His face is solemn.

"I did," Harris answers.

"Then just write your name here as witness," Joseph briskly says,
handing him a pen, and covering the few lines of the document,
leaving only Philip Hardin's well-known signature visible.

Harris hesitates. Joe's eyes are blazing; no foolery now! Harris
quietly signs. The name of Joseph Woods is added, at once, with
the date.

"Harris," says Joseph, "you're a man of honor. I pledge you now I
will not make public the nature of this document. Hardin can grab
for the Senate now, if you boys can elect him. I'll not fight him."

Harris retires in silence. The day is saved. Though the election is
within three days, Joseph Woods finds private business so pressing
that his seat is vacant, when Philip Hardin is declared Senator-elect.
The pledge has been kept. Not a rumor of the secret incident reaches
the public. The cautious Joseph is grateful for not being obliged
to shorten Hardin's life.

Fly as fast as Hardin may to Mariposa, Joe Woods is there before
him. The telegraph bears to every hamlet of the Golden State the
news of the senatorial choice.

Philip Hardin, seated on the porch of the old mansion at Lagunitas,
reads the eulogies crowding the columns of fifty journals.

From San Diego to Siskiyou one general voice hails the new-made
member of that august body, who are now so rapidly giving America
"Roman liberties."

The friend of Mammon, nurtured in conspiracy, skilled in deceit,
Hardin, the hidden Mokanna, grins behind his silver veil.

His deep-laid plans seem all safe now. The local meshes of his golden
net hold the District Judge firmly. It will be easy to postpone, to
weary out, to harass this strange faction. He has stores of coin
ready. They are the heaped-up reserves of his "senatorial ammunition."
And yet Joe Woods, that burly meddling fool. To placate Natalie!
To induce her to leave at once for Paris! How shall this be done?
Ha! The marriage is her dream in life! He is elected now. He fears
not her Southern rival. The ambitious political lady aspirant! He
can explain to her now in private, To give Natalie an acknowledgment
of a private marriage will content her. Then his bought Judge can
quietly grant a separation for desertion, after Natalie has returned
to France. She will care nothing for the squabble over the acres
of Lagunitas, if well paid. As for the priest, he may swear as
strongly as he likes. The girl will surely be declared illegitimate.
He has destroyed all the papers. Valois' will is never to see the
light. If deception has been practiced he cares not. Senatorial
privilege raises him too high for the voice of slander.

He has the golden heart of these hills now to himself.

Yes, he will fool the priest and divide his enemies. The money
for Natalie will be deposited in Paris banks. The principal to be
paid her in one year, on condition of never again coming to the
United States. Long before that time he will be legally free and
remarried. Hardin rubs his hands in glee. Neither reporter nor
the public will ever see the divorce proceedings. That is easily
handled in Mariposa.

In his local legal experience, he has many times seen wilder schemes
succeed. Spanish grants have been shifted leagues to suit the occasion.
Boundaries are removed bodily. Witnesses are manufactured under
golden pressure. The eyes of Justice are blinded with opaque weights
of the yellow treasure.

But he must work rapidly. It is now only a short week to the trial.
The court-house and records are regularly watched. Not a move
indicates any prying into the matter beyond the mere identity of
the heiress. But who has set up the other claimant?

It would be madness for Natalie to raise this quarrel! Some schemers
have imposed a strange girl on the other party. Hardin recalls
Natalie's wild astonishment at the apparition of another "Isabel
Valois."

And the second girl did not even know who Natalie was. What devil's
work is this?

Hardin decides to "burn his ships." Alone in the home of the
Peraltas, he prepares for a campaign "a l'outrance." That crafty
priest might know too much. The evening before his departure he
burns up every paper at the ranch which would cause any remark, even
in case of his death. Next morning, as he rides out of Lagunitas,
he gazes on the fair domain. The last thing he sees is the chapel
cross. A chill suddenly strikes him. He gallops on. Rapidly
journeying to Mariposa, he installs himself in the headquarters
of his friends. His ablest counsel has provided the bought Judge,
with full secret instructions to meet every contingency.

Sober and serious in final judgment, Philip Hardin quickly summons
a discreet friend. He requests a last personal interview with
Natalie de Santos. The ambassador is received by good-humored Joe
Woods. He declines an interview, by the lady's orders, unless its
object is stated.

Hardin requests that some friend other than the Missouri miner,
may be named to represent Natalie.

His eyes gleam when the selection is made of Pere Francois. Just
what he would wish.

It lacks now but three days of the final hearing. An hour after the
message, Hardin and the priest are seated, in quiet commune. There
are no papers. There is no time lost, none to lose. No witnesses,
no interlopers.

Hardin opens his proposals. The priest seems tractable. "I do not
wish to refer to any present legal matters. I speak only of the
past. I will refer only to the future of 'Madame de Santos.' You
may say to her that if she will grant me a brief interview, I feel
I can make her a proposition she will accept, as very advantageous.
In justice to her, I cannot communicate its details, even to you.
But if she wishes to advise with you, I have no objection to giving
you the guarantees of my provision for her future. You shall know
as much of our whole arrangement as she wishes you to. She can
have you or other friends, in an adjoining room. You can be called
in to witness the papers, and examine the details."

The grave priest returns in half an hour. Hardin ponders uneasily.
The priest plays an unimpassioned part. "Madame de Santos will
receive Judge Hardin on his terms, with the condition, that if there
is any exciting difference, Judge Hardin will retire at once, and
not renew his proposals." Hardin accepts. Now for work.

Side by side, the new-made senator and the old priest walk across
the plaza. Success smiles on Hardin.

Local quid-nuncs mutter "Compromise," as they seek the spiritual
consolation of the Magnolia Saloon and Palace Varieties. Is there
to be no pistol practice after all?

Alas, these degenerate days! The camp has lost its glory. Betting
has been two to one that Colonel Joe Woods riddles the Judge before
the trial is over.

Now these bets will be off. A fraud on the innocent public. The
decadence of Mariposa.

Yet, Hardin is not easy. In the first struggle of his life with a
priest, Hardin feels himself no match for his passionless antagonist.
The waxen mask of the Church hides the inner soul of the man.

Only when Pere Francois turns his searching gaze on the Judge,
parrying every move, does the lawyer feel how the immobility of
the clergyman is proof against his wiles and professional ambushes.

Pere Francois conducts Hardin into the room whence Natalie dismissed
him, in her roused but sadly wounded spirit. She is there, waiting.
Her face is marble in pallor.

With a grave bow, the old ecclesiastic retires to an adjoining room
and leaves them alone. There is a writing table.

"Madame, to spare you discussion," Hardin remarks seriously, "I
will write on two sheets of paper what I ask and what I offer. You
may confer with your adviser. I will retire. You can add to either
anything you propose. We can then, at once, observe if we can
approach each other."

Natalie's stately head bows assent in silence. In five minutes
Hardin hands her the two sheets.

Natalie's face puzzles him. Calm and unmoved, she looks him quietly
in the eyes, as if in a mute farewell. She has simply uttered
monosyllables, in answer to his few explanations.

Hardin walks up and down upon the veranda, while Natalie, the priest,
and Colonel Joe scan the two sheets. His heart beats quickly while
the trio read his proposals.

They are simple enough. What he gets and what he gives. Madame de
Santos is to absent herself from the trial. She is to leave Isabel
Valois, her charge, with the priest. She is to be silent as to the
entire past.

Hardin's lawyers are to stipulate, in case of Isabel Valois being
defeated in any of her rights, she shall be free to receive a fund
equal to that settled on the absent child of Natalie. Her freedom
comes with her majority in any case.

Judge Hardin offers, on the other hand:

To give a written recognition of the private marriage, and to
fully legalize the absent Irene.

To admit her to his succession, and to surrender all control to
the mother.

On condition of Natalie de Santos ceasing all marital claims
and disappearing at once, she is to receive five hundred thousand
dollars, in bankers' drafts to her order in Paris, six months after
the legal separation.

Hardin's tread re-echoes on the porch. His mind is busied. Is he
to have a closing career of unsullied honor in the Senate? He is
yet in a firm, if frosty age. A dignified halo will surround his
second marriage. It is better thus. Peace and silence at any cost.
And Lagunitas' millions to come. The mine--his dear-bought treasure.
It is coming, Philip Hardin. Peace and rest? it will be peace and
silence. He starts! The black-robed priest is at the door. Father
Francois has now resumed his soutane.

"Will you kindly enter?" he says.

Hardin, with unmoved face, seats himself opposite Natalie. Pere
Francois remains.

"I will accept your terms, Judge Hardin," she steadily says,
"with the addition that the advice of Judge Davis be at my service
regarding the papers, and that I leave to-morrow for San Francisco.

"You are to send an agent, also. The money to be transferred by
telegraph, payable absolutely to me at Paris, by my bankers, at
the appointed time. Your agent may accompany me to the frontier
of the State. I will leave as soon as the bankers acknowledge the
transfer.

"In case of any failure on your part, the obligation to keep silent
ceases. I retain the marriage papers."

Hardin bows his head. The priest is silent. In a few moments, the
senator-elect says:

"I agree to all." His senatorial debut pictures itself in his mind.

Madame de Santos rises, "I authorize Pere Francois to remain with
you, on my behalf. Let the papers be at once prepared. I am ready
to leave to-morrow morning. I only insist the two papers which would
affect my child, be duplicated, and both witnessed by our lawyers."

Hardin bows assent. Natalie de Santos walks toward the door of her
rooms. Her last words fall on his ear: "Pere Francois will represent
me in all." She is going. Hardin springs to the door: "And I shall
see you again?" His voice quivers slightly. Old days throng back
to his memory. "Is it for ever?" His iron heart softens a moment.

"I pray God, never! Philip Hardin, you are dead to me. The past is
dead. I can only think of you with your cruel grasp on my throat!"
She is gone.

As the door closes, Hardin buries his face in his hands. Thoughts
of other days are rending his heart-strings.

Before three hours, the papers are all executed. The morning stage
takes Natalie de Santos, with the priest, and guarded by Armand
Valois, away from the scene of the coming legal battle.

In the early gray of the dawn, Philip Hardin only catches a glimpse
of a muffled form in a coach. He will see the mother of his child
no more. With a wild dash, the stage sweeps away. It is all over.

His agent, in a special conveyance, is already on the road. He has
orders to telegraph the completion of the transfer. He is to verify
the departure for New York, of the ex-queen of the El Dorado.

On the day of the hearing, the court-house is crowded. Pere Francois
and Armand Valois have not yet returned. Both sides have received,
by telegraph, the news of the completion of the work. By stipulation,
the newly-acknowledged marriage is not to be made public.

Hardin, pale and thoughtful, enters the court with his supporters.
There is but one young lady present. With her, Peyton, Judge Davis,
and Joseph Woods are seated. Raoul Dauvray seats himself quietly
between the two parties.

When the case is reached, there is the repression of a deathly
silence. Hardin, by the advice of his lawyers, will stand strictly
on the defensive. He has decided to acknowledge his entire readiness
to close his guardianship. He will leave the heirship to be finally
adjusted by the Court. The Court is under his thumb.

His senatorial duties call for this relief. It will take public
attention from the unpleasant matter. Rid of the burden of the
ranch, still the "bonanza of Lagunitas" will be his, as always.

The great lawyer he relies on states plausibly this entire
willingness to such a relief, and requests the Court to appoint a
successor to the distinguished trustee. Hardin feels that he has
now covered his past with a solid barrier. Safe at last. No living
man can roll away the huge rock from the "tomb of the dead past."
It would need a voice from the grave. He can defy the whole world.
No thought of his dead friend haunts him.

When the advocate ceases speaking, while the Judge ponders over
the disputed heirship, and the contest as to the legitimacy of
Maxime Valois' child, when clearly identified, Judge Davis rises
quietly to address the Court. Philip Hardin feels a slight chill
icing down his veins, as he notes the gravity of the Eastern
lawyer's manner. Is there a masked battery?

"Your Honor," begins Davis, "we oppose any action tending to
discharge or relieve the present guardian of Isabel Valois.

"A most important discovery of new matters in the affairs of this
estate, makes it my duty to lay some startling facts before your
Honor."

There is a pause. Hardin's heart flutters madly. He sees a stony
look gather on Joe Woods' face. There is a peculiar grimness also
in the visage of the watchful Peyton. Everyone in the room is on
the alert. Crowding to the front, Hardin is elbowed by a man who
seats himself in a chair reserved by Judge Davis.

His eyes are blinded for a moment. Great Heavens! It is his old
law-clerk. The wily and once hilarious Jaggers.

He is here for some purpose. That devil Woods' work.

Hardin's hand clutches a revolver in his pocket. He glares uneasily
at Joe Woods, at Peyton, at the ex-clerk. He breathlessly waits
for the solemn voice of Davis:

"We propose, your Honor, to introduce evidence that the late Maxime
Valois left a will. We propose to prove that the estate has been
maladministered. We will prove to your Honor that a gigantic fraud
has been perpetrated during the minority of the child of Colonel
Valois. The most valuable element of the estate, the Lagunitas
mine, has been fraudulently enjoyed by the administrator."

Hardin springs to his feet. He is forced into his chair by his
counsel. There is the paleness of death on his face, but murder
lurks in his heart. Away with patience now. A hundred eyes are
gazing in his direction. The Judge is anchored, in amazement, on
the bench. Woods and Peyton are facing Hardin, with steady defiance.

As he struggles to rise, he feels his blood boiling like molten
iron.

He has been trapped by this devil, Woods. Davis resumes: "I shall
show your Honor, by the man who held Colonel Valois in his arms on
the battlefield as he lay dying, that a will was duly forwarded
to the guardian and administrator, who concealed it. I will also
prove, your Honor, that Colonel Valois repeated that will in a
document taken from his dead body, in which he acknowledged his
marriage, and the legitimacy of his true child. I will file these
papers, and prove them by testimony of the gallant officer who
buried him, and who succeeded to his regiment."

A deep growl from Hardin is heard. He knows now who Peyton is. What
avenging fiends are on his track? But the mine, the mine is safe.
Always the mine, The deeds will hold. Davis resumes, his voice
ringing cold and clear:

"I shall also prove by documents, concealed by the administrator,
that Maxime Valois never parted with the title to the Lagunitas
mine; that the millions have been stolen, which it has yielded.
I will bring in the evidence of the clerk who received these last
letters from the absent owner in the field, that they are genuine.
They state his utter inability to sell the mine, as the whole
property belonged to his wife."

There is a blood-red film before Hardin's eyes now. Prudence flies
after patience. It is his Waterloo. All is lost, even honor.

"I venture to remind your Honor, that even if the daughter, whom
I produce here, is proved illegitimate, that she takes the whole
property, including the mine, as the legal heir of her mother,
under the laws of California." A murmur is suppressed by the clerk's
hammer.

There is an awful silence as Judge Davis adds: "I will further
produce before your Honor, Armand Valois, the only other heir of
the decedent, to whom the succession would fall by law. He is named
in the will I will establish, made twelve hours before the writer
was killed at the battle of Peachtree Creek.

"I am aware," Judge Davis concludes, "that some one has forged
the titles to the Lagunitas mine. I will prove the forgery to have
been executed in the interest of Philip Hardin, the administrator,
whom I now formally ask you to remove pending this trial, as a
man false to his trust. He has robbed the orphan daughter of his
friend. He deceived the man who laid his life down for the cause
of the South, while he plotted in the safe security of distant
California homes. Colonel Valois was robbed by his trusted friend."

A mighty shudder shakes the crowd. Men gaze at each other, wildly.
The blinking Judge is dazed on the bench he pollutes. Before any
one can draw a breath in relief, Hardin, bending himself below the
restraining arms, springs to his feet and levels a pistol full at
Joe Woods' breast.

"You hound!" he yells. His arm is struck up; Raoul Dauvray has
edged every moment nearer the disgraced millionaire. The explosion
of the heavy pistol deafens those near. When the smoke floats away,
a gaping wound tells where its ball crashed through Hardin's brain.
Slain by his own hand. Dead and disgraced. The senatorial laurels
never touch his brow!

In five minutes the court is cleared. An adjournment to the next
day is forced by the sudden tragedy. The wild mob are thronging
the plaza.

Silent in death lies the man who realized at last how the awful
voice of the dead Confederate called down the vengeance of God on
the despoiler of the orphan.

The telegraph, lightning-winged, bears the news far and wide. By
the evening Pere Francois and Armand Valois return. In a few hours
Natalie de Santos turns backward. The swift wheels speeding down the
Truckee are slower than the electric spark bearing to the ex-queen
of the El Dorado, the wife of a day, the news of her legal widowhood.

Henry Peyton brings back the traveller, whose presence is now
absolutely needed.

A lonely grave on the red hillside claims the last remains of the
dark Chief of the Golden Circle. Few stand by its yawning mouth,
to see the last of the man whose name has been just hailed everywhere
with wild enthusiasm.

Unloved, unhonored, unregretted, unshriven, with all his imperfections
on his head, he waits the last trump. Alone in death, as in life.

In the brief and formal verification of all these facts, the Court
finds an opportunity to at once establish the identity of the
heiress of Lagunitas. For, there is no contest now.

In formal devotion to the profession, Hardin's lawyer represents
the estate of the dark schemer.

The legal tangles yield to final proofs.

There is a family party at Lagunitas once more. Judge Davis and Peyton
guard the interests of the girl who has only lost the millions of
Lagunitas to inherit a fortune from the father who scorned to even
gaze upon her face. Joseph Woods joyfully guides the beautiful
heiress of the domain, who kneels besides the grave of Dolores
Peralta, her unknown mother, with her lover by her side. The last
of the Valois stand there, hand in hand. She is Louise Moreau no
more.

Pere Francois is again in his old home by the little chapel, where
twenty years ago he raised his voice in the daily supplication for
God's sinful children.

While Raoul Dauvray and Armand ride in voyages of discovery over
the great domain, the two heiresses are happy with each other.
There is no question between them. They are innocent of each other's
sorrows. They now know much of the shadowy past with its chequered
romance. The transfer of all the mine and its profits to the young
girl, who finds the domain in the hills a fairyland, is accomplished.

Judge Davis hies himself away to the splendid excitement of his
Eastern metropolitan practise. His "honorarium" causes him to
have an added and tender feeling for the all-conquering Joe Woods.
Henry Peyton is charged with the general supervision of the Lagunitas
estate. He is aided by a mine superintendent selected by that wary
old Argonaut, Joe.

Natalie de Santos leaves the refuge of lovely Lagunitas in a few
weeks. There is a shadow resting on her heart which will never
be lifted. In vain, beside the old chapel, seated under the giant
rose-vines, Pere Francois urges her to witness the marriage of
her daughter. Under the care of Joseph Woods, she leaves for San
Francisco. Her daughter, who is soon to take a rightful name, learns
from Pere Francois the agreed-on reasons of her absence. Natalie
will not make a dark background to the happiness to come. Silence
and expiation await her beyond the surges of the Atlantic.

Joseph Woods and Pere Francois have buried all awkward references
to past history. Irene Dauvray will never know the story of the
lovely "Queen of the El Dorado."

There are no joy bells at Lagunitas on the day when the old priest
unites Armand and Isabel Valois in marriage. The same solemn
consecration gives gallant Raoul Dauvray, the woman he adores. It
is a sacrament of future promise. Peyton and Joe Woods are the men
who stand in place of the fathers of these two dark-eyed brides.
It is a solemn and tender righting of the old wrongs. A funeral of
the past--a birth of a brighter day, for all.

The load of care and strife has been taken from the shoulders of
the three elders, who gravely watch the four glowing and enraptured
lovers.

In a few weeks, Raoul Dauvray and his bride leave for San Francisco.
Fittingly they choose France for their home. In San Francisco,
Joseph Woods leads the young bride through the silent halls of the
old house on the hill. The Missourian gravely bids the young wife
remember that it was here her feet wandered over the now neglected
paths.

Joseph Woods convoys the departing voyagers to the border of the
State. The ample fortune secured to them, will engage his occasional
leisure in advice as to its local management.

Natalie de Santos goes forth with them. Her home in Paris awaits
her. The Golden State knows her no more. Her feet will never wander
back to the shores where her stormy youth was passed.

A lover's pilgrimage to beloved Paris and the old castle by the
blue waters of Lake Geneva claims the Lord and Lady of Lagunitas.
For, they will return to dwell in the mountains of Mariposa. Before
they cross the broad Atlantic, they have a sacred duty to perform.
It is to visit the grave of the soldier of the Lost Cause and lay
their wreaths upon the turf which covers his gallant breast.

The old padre sits on the porch of his house at Lagunitas. He
waits only for the last solemn act. Henry Peyton is to follow the
travellers East, and remove the soldier of the gray to the little
chapel grounds of Lagunitas.

When Padre Francisco has seen the master come home, and raised his
weakening voice in requiem over the friend of his youth, he will
seek once more his dear Paris, and find again his cloistered home
near Notre Dame.

He has, as a memorial of mother and daughter, a deed of the old home
of Philip Hardin. It is given to the Church for a hospital. It is
well so. None of the living ever wish to pass again its shadowed
portals.

While waiting the time for their departure, the priest and Henry
Peyton watch the splendid beauties of Lagunitas, in peaceful
brotherhood. The man of war and the servant of peace are drawn
towards each other strangely.

The Virginian often gazes on the sword of Maxime Valois, hanging now
over the hearthplace he left in his devotion to the Lost Cause. He
thanks God that the children of the old blood are in the enjoyment
of their birthright.

Padre Francisco, telling his beads, or whiling an hour away with
his breviary, begins to nod easily as the lovely summer days deepen
in splendor. He is an old man now, yet his heart is touched with
the knowledge of God's infinite mercy as he looks over the low wall
to where the roses bloom around: the grave of Dolores Valois.

He hopes to live yet to know, that gallant father and patient
mother will live over again in the happy faces of the children of
their orphaned child.

In the United States of America, at this particular juncture,
no happier man than Colonel and State Senator Joseph Woods can be
found. His mines are unfailing in their yield; his bachelor bungalow,
in its splendor, will extinguish certain ambitious rivals, and he
is freed from the nightmare of investigating the tangled web of the
mysterious struggle for the millions of Lagunitas. He is confirmed
in his resolve to remain a bachelor.

"I have two home camps now, one in Paris and one in California,
where I am a sort of a brevet father. I won't be lonely," Joe
merrily says.

Joseph's cheery path in life is illuminated by his gorgeous diamonds,
and roped in with his massive watch-chains. More precious than the
gold and gems is the rough and ready manhood of the old Argonaut.
He seriously thinks of eschewing the carrying of weapons, and
abandoning social adventures, becoming staid and serene like Father
Francois.

He often consoles himself in his loneliness by the thought that
Henry Peyton is also a man without family. "I will capture Peyton
when he gets the young people in good shape, and they are tired
of Paris style," Joe muses. "He's a man and a brother, and we will
spend our old days in peace together."

One haunting, sad regret touches Colonel Joe's heart. He learns
of the intention of Natalie to spend her days in retirement and in
helping others.

Thinking of her splendid beauty, her daring struggle for her
friendless child's rights, and all that is good of the only woman
he ever could have desperately loved, he guards her secret in his
breast. He dare not confess to his own heart that if there had
been an honorable way, he would fain have laid his fortune at the
feet of the peerless "Queen of the El Dorado."

Francois Ribaut, walking the deck of the steamer, gazes on the
great white stars above him. The old man is peaceful, and calmly
thankful. The night breezes moan over the lonely Atlantic! As the
steamer bravely dashes the spray aside, his heart bounds with a
new happiness. Every hour brings the beloved France nearer to him.
Looking back at the life and land he leaves behind him, the old
priest marvels at the utter uselessness of Philip Hardin's life.
Apples of Sodom were all his treasures. His wasted gifts, his dark
schemes, his sly plans, all gone for naught. Blindly driven along
in the darkness of evil, his own hand pulled down his palace of sin
on his head. And even "French Charlie" was avenged by the murderer's
self-executed sentence. "Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord; I will
repay." The innocent and helpless have wandered past each dark
pitfall dug by the wily Hardin, and enjoy their own. Pere Francois,
with his eyes cast backward on his own life path, feels that he
has not fought the good fight in vain. His gentle heart throbs in
sympathy, filled with an infinite compassion for the lonely Natalie
de Santos. Sinned against and sinning. A free lance, with only
her love for her child to hallow and redeem her. Her own plans,
founded in guile, have all miscarried. Blood stains the gold bestowed
on her by Philip Hardin's death. Her life has been a stormy sea.
Yet, to her innocent child, a name and fortune have been given by
the hand of Providence. In turning away her face from the vain and
glittering world she has adorned, the chase and plaything of men,
one pure white flower will bloom from the red ashes of her dead
life. The unshaken affection of the child for whom she struggled,
who can always, in ignorance of the dark past, lift happy eyes to
hers and call her in love, by the holy name of mother. With bowed
head and thankful heart, Padre Francisco's thoughts linger around
beautiful Lagunitas. Its groves and forest arches, its mirrored
lake, its smiling beauties and fruitful fields, return to him. The
old priest murmurs: "God made Lagunitas; but man made California
what it has been."

A land of wild adventure, of unrighted wrongs. A land of sad
histories, of many shattered hopes. Fierce waves of adventurers
swept away the simple early folk. Lawless license, flaunting vice,
and social disorganization made its early life as a State, one mad
chaos.

The Indians have perished, rudely despoiled. The old Dons have
faded into the gray mists of a dead past. The early Argonauts have
lived out the fierce fever of their wild lives. To the old individual
freebooters, a new order of great corporate monopolies and gigantic
rough-hewn millionaires succeeds. There is always some hand on the
people's throat in California. Yet the star of hope glitters.

Slowly, through all the foamy restless waves of transient adventurers
the work of the homebuilders is showing the dry land decked with
the olive branches of peace.

The native sons and daughters of the Golden West, bright, strong,
self-reliant and full of promise, are the glittering-eyed young
guardians of the Golden Gate. Born of the soil, with life's battle
to fight on their native hills, may they build around the slopes
of the Pacific, a State great in its hearths and homes. The future
shines out. The gloomy past recedes. The sunlight of freedom
sparkles on the dreamy lake of Lagunitas!








This eBook was produced by Sergio Cangiano, Juliet Sutherland,
Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.




LAYS FROM THE WEST

BY

"STELLA"--M.A. NICHOLL


Then the spirit reached her fingers,
  Taper things of rosy snow,
Took my songs, and as she took them,
  "Tiny germs," she whispered "go!
Root among the coming hours,
  Seeds are ye of many flowers,
Which from out the winds will grow!"

     *     *     *     *     *


Dedicated

WITH MUCH GRATITUDE AND AFFECTION

TO

_MRS. T. SPOTISWOOD ASH,_

THE MANOR HOUSE,

BELLAGHY, IRELAND.

     *     *     *     *     *

IN THE NORTHWEST.


"I'll not forget Old Ireland, were it fifty times as fair."

In myriads o'er the prairie
  Bright flowers bloom strangely fair,
There's beauty in the clear blue sky,
  There's sweetness in the air;
And loveliness, with lavish hand,
  Decks dell and dingle gay;
Yet still I love my native land--
  The Green Isle, far away.

The poplar quivers in the breeze,
  And by the blue lake's side.
The regal iris, tall and fair,
  Blooms in her native pride;
But I dream of the broad beeches' shade
  In glens beside Lough Neagh
And my longing thoughts go back to thee,
  O, Green Isle, far away!

Strange birds, in painted plumage gay,
  In hundreds haunt the grove;
O'er marsh and moor, the loon and heron,
  The coot and plover rove;
But I miss the lark's glad matin song,
  And the thrush and blackbird's lay,
The summer songsters, sweet and wild,
  In the Green Isle, far away.
Along the blue horizon line
  The "bluffs" rise 'gainst the sky,
But in dreams I see Old Erin's coast--
  Her mountains wild and high
Slieve Gallon, with his hoary head
  Gold-crowned at close of day,
When sunset lights the grand old hills
  In the Green Isle, far away.

There's beauty in the woodland wilds
  With their varied foliage fair,
But, cowering from the light of day,
  The grim wolf shelters there.
Ah! dear old woods, where I have roamed
  At eve of summer day,
No hidden dangers haunt your glades,
  In the Green Isle, far away.

The clear Assiniboine winds free
  Through many a fertile vale;
The antlered deer and graceful hind
  Bound o'er the wooded dale;
But I miss the quiet rural scenes--
  The farm-house, thatched and grey,
That memory fondly pictures now
  Of the Green Isle, far away.

The Sabbath morn its holy calm
  Breathes o'er the prairie lands,
And the answering heart hears Nature's psalm
  And the wild woods clap their hands.
But I long to hear the church bell's sound
  Tell to these wilds that day,
When thousands meet to praise and pray
  In the Green Isle far away.

Here life lays hold of brighter things
  For the fair years to be,
But the deathless Past and all her dreams,
  Old land, belong to thee!
The buried love, the buried hope
  Of youth's glad summer day,
That blend with unforgotten scenes
  Of the Green Isle, far away.

And while we love this pleasant land
  And own it good and fair,
Our hearts' first love goes backward
  And fondly lingers there--
Back to the dear home country,
  Then forward to that day
When all shall meet together,
  From the Green Isle pass'd away.




SONG.


"In the gloaming Oh, my darling."

Oh! green-bosomed Isle, as the summer day's gloaming,
  Lies dreamy and dun on the prairie's wild breast
There my worn, wayward heart o'er the wild waves is roaming
  Far, far to the scenes that are dearest and best.

As by bluff and by woodland, by swamp and by meadow,
  The gloom gathers round in its dim, mystic pall,
Then my fancies come forth, spirit-children of shadow,
  Slow gliding from haunts where the lone night-birds call.

When the wind, ardent lover, in songful caressing,
  Speaks low to the grasses that bend to his breath,
And the dew woos the rose with the balm of its blessing
  And steals it with love from the shadow of death.

Then I seek the wild glen, when the new moon is beaming
  All weirdly and wan, through a cloud's fleecy haze,
'Till I stand, young and free, in the land of my dreaming,
  Clasping hands with the phantoms of happier days.

And then, oh! mavourneen, in grey distance flying
  The present, the real, grows dimmer, and dies,
See but the moonbeams, but hear the winds sighing,
  And bask, fancy bound, in the light of your eyes.

My own! though the years in the gloom of their sadness
  Stand, frowning, 'tween me and the light of my star,
And memory can feel the wild might of loves madness,
  Or scoff as rude Time its first sweetness would mar.

Again, by the banks where Moyola is flowing
  We stray as the moonbeams smile sweet through the dell

Unheeded the moments, unmarked in their going,
  Nor dreamed we of woe in the sound of "farewell."

Is it lost--all the light of the fair morning vision?
  Is spirit to spirit unanswering, cold?
No, it never shall die, while in memory's Elysian
  It lingers in beauty and brightness untold.

Love is love, and though Fate blasts our hope vines may sever
  From the stay which their tendrils in fondness entwine
Yet the past of our joy we must cherish forever
  And spirit meet spirit at memory's shrine.




A MEMORY.


"Indulgent Memory wakes, and, lo! they live!"
--RODGERS

Deathless, while the years are flying,
And all lesser hopes are dying.
To my widowed heart near lying
    By a life-time's love embalmed,
Is a memory, dear and tender,
And in dreams its bygone splendour
Sweetest, holiest, balm can render
    To my grief, by Time uncalmed.

In life's morning, young and early
Glistening fair through dew-drops pearly,
Burst a bud that promised fairly
    Through the length of future days.
Ah! it charmed my passion'd dreaming,
Bathed in beauty's brightness, beaming
Fadeless still, and deathless seeming
    In fond Hope's delusive haze.

And, as when in wild December,
June's calm twilights we remember,
So this dream in shadowy splendour

Ever haunts my lonely way;
And I see in fond delusion,
Glowing as in light Elysian,
The entrancing, old-time vision
      Doom'd so early to decay.

Days when Hope, how false! still flaunted
Through my dreamings, love enchanted,
Framed by busy Fancy, haunted
      By glad visions of delight,--
Morns of light, and sunsets golden,
Dreams of legends, grand and olden,
Hopes for future years, withholden
      From our youthful, yearning sight.

Past and gone! Ah! vain my sighing,--
Hope's dead leaves are round me lying,
But their fragrances, undying,
      Like a hallowed incense rise;
And I feel, with joy unspoken,
That the spirit love unbroken
Leaves this Memory for a token
      Of its truth, that never dies.

In that land whose beauty vernal
Through tried ages blooms eternal
Thou, in bliss undreamed, supernal
      Baskest in the glory-light
Where celestial joys inspire
All heaven's vast, unnumbered choir
With sweet songs that never tire,
      Through the fadeless summer bright.

Here, how sad this dreary roaming,
Through the shadows of earth's gloaming,
Waiting for the longed-for coming
      Of the lingering Morning Star;
But swift time is onward fleeting--
Backward is the past retreating,
Nearer, nearer draws our meeting
      In the future, dim and far.




AFTER LIFE'S FEVER.


_Obiit, June, 1882_.

   --"And then, a flood of light, a seraph's hymn,
   And God's own smile, forever, and forever."

Oh! pale, calm face; eyes by the Death-kiss sealed,
  Cold hands, upon the silent bosom folden;
Oh! soul, set free--of all sin's sickness healed,
  Basking in light, from mortal eyes withholden,
                                 _In coelo quies_.

Still heart, that ached and throbb'd with human passion,
  Locks, white with snow of many a winter past,
Tired body, weary after earth's poor fashion,
  Sleep calmly till the waking trumpet blast--
                                 _In coelo quies_.

All over now--the heart-ache and the burning
  Of thoughts, so trammelled by this "mortal coil;"
The soul has cast behind its moans and yearning,
  The hands are resting from the long life's toil,--
                                 _In coelo quies_.

I, mournful gazer, watching by the portal
  Whence thou, from death to life, hast entered in,
Would fain catch one stray gleam of light immortal,
  To tell me, ever drowning earth's wild din,
                                 _In coelo quies_.

I might not hear the angel welcome ringing,
  Nor see the pearly portals open wide,
Wherein the ransomed band, the new song singing,
  In white robes wander by life's river side,
                                 _In coelo quies_.

"_In coelo quies_," while the storms are beating
  Along earth's desert moorlands, wild and wide;
While skies shall lower, and angry waves are meeting
  Thy bark is moored--thou art beyond the tide,
                                 _In coelo quies_.

"_In coelo quies_"--Rest, pure, deep, eternal,
  Peace, in a perfect, blissful, endless calm;
Charmed by the beatific joys supernal,
  Lull'd by the melody of seraph's psalm,
                                 _In coelo quies_.

Here, we but dream it all--the rest--the glory,
  Here we but yearn for it in sob and pain;
Till knees wax weary and till locks grow hoary,
  Still "westward journeying," at length to gain,
                                 _In coelo quies_.

But _thou_ mayest sleep; thy toilsome warfare ended,
  The long, rough life-path has been nobly trod,
And with our lost ones, thou sweet songs hast blended,
  To hail them found, beside the throne of God?
                                 _In coelo quies_.




LIGHT AT EVENTIDE.


Round us in the stillness spreading,
  Comes the night.
Mortal ears can't hear the treading
  Of her footsteps, soft and light.

Dusky veil that shades the valleys,
  Bringing rest;
Shadowy glooms in greenwood alleys.
  Twilight dreamings, sweet and blest.

All the day-time cares are ended,
  And instead,
Now by unseen bands attended,
  Far, in fancy, we are led.

Misty forms of mystic seeming
  Hover near;
Memory's myriad tapers gleaming
  Light old scenes and make them clear--

Morn's vain hopes, and noon's stern sorrows,
  Tears and cares;
Days of toiling, and to-morrow's
  Bringing less of wheat than tares.

And the chequered, varied pages
  Of life's book
Seem a sea whose calms and rages
  Now the tired heart cannot brook.

Evening calm! ah, best and purest
  Time of peace;
Soothing balm, when hope is surest,
  To bid all vain doubting cease.

Pointing on, when near the pleasant,
  Rest awaits;
When we leave this weary present
  And have gained the pearly gates.

And as evening shadows, creeping,
  Gather round
Dim eyes, worn so weak with weeping,
  Learn to smile as peace is found.

In the hope so full of cheering
  And delight--
Home, sweet home! our rest we're nearing!
  Evening time shall bring us light.

Light of heaven! Earth's gloom adorning
  With thy smile,
Earnest of the eternal morning
  After this brief "little while."




CHRISTMAS EVE.


Ruddy bright the dying embers
  In the glooming, glow and burn,
Scenes of olden-time Decembers,
  Ashes now in Times' great urn,
That the heart so well remembers
  At this haunted hour reborn:--
All the fairy scenes Elysian
  Born again in recollection,
  Seen with mirror-like reflection,
Throng upon the wondering vision.
Once again I hear the river
  In the darkness rush and roar,
See the pine-boughs wave and quiver,
  Hear the oak trees, blasted, hoar,
Muttering, as their gaunt arms shiver,
  "Come again, oh! days of yore!"
Come, oh times of hope and longing,
  When the beauteous, pure ideal,
  Seemed tangible and real--
 "Love the light of Truth's belonging."

And the woodland walks, enchanted,
  By the moonlight's mystic sheen,
Seen as near as when Hope flaunted
  In the distance, dimly seen,
That the witched hour seems haunted
  By the joys that once have been.
Dear old days! they seem returning.
Though their radiance long has vanished,
  Though their rays stern fate has banished,
Fancy still can see them burning.

See their magic, nameless graces,
  Through the shadows flit and gleam,
See again beloved faces
  Shine around as in a dream,
And the well-remembered places
  Of the bygone, nearer seem,
Till all present melancholy,
  Fades away, and sweet and tender,
  Visions of life's spring-time splendour,
Gleam among the bay and holly.

Hark! the Christmas bells are ringing
  From the grey church-steeple near,
And the choir are sweetly singing,
  "Nowel! Hail Messiah here!
Nowel! for He cometh, bringing
  Unto all mankind good cheer."
Through the night the music stealing
  Bringeth soothing sweet and pleasant,
  Sheds a peace upon the present,
Future days in light revealing.




AT ANCHOR.


  "Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, to-day, and forever"
  HEBREWS xiii. 8.


In life's young morning blue-eyed promise smiled
  O'er a fair future of enchanting grace,
And sweet toned love the golden hours beguiled,
  And Fortune's radiant smile illumed the place.

But change, dread vulture, swooped upon her prey.
  And seized my treasures as Time's car sped on,
Then traitor love took wings, and fled away.
  And long ere noon I wept a setting sun.

Then Phoenix-like, beside the smoldering pile,
  Kind friendship rose with open, outstretched hands,
But, ere I grasped them, death with icy smile
  Had rudely snapp'd in twain the three-fold bands.

E'en while I mourned, I heard a thrilling voice
  That said in stirring accents, "Up! arise!
Work, that in harvest time thou mayest rejoice!"
  And Fame stood pointing to the brightening skies.

Then dreams, false phantoms, filled the gloaming air
  And lured me, spell-bound, by a labyrinth maze,
But morning beams awakened new despair--
  The meteor glories passed in mist and haze.

Through shady groves I strayed, and on before
  Walked high-browed Knowledge, calm-eyed and severe
Unwearied still, I trod his footprints o'er,
  But fainting fell, the longed-for prize anear.

Hard-smitten then, I wept; all woe-all gloom!
  The heart-void still unfilled, ached keen and sore,
When through the inky darkness shot a gleam
  Of new-born glory, unrevealed before.

Dear Lord! How frail these bauble-toys of Time
  When Thy "forever" dawns upon the heart;
Thy perfect fullness, Saviour, how divine,
  E'en while we taste its blessedness in part!
Still yesterday, to-day, while ages roll
  In grand, eternal vastness, still the same,
Oh! potent Healer! every whit made whole,
  I sing glad Hallelujah to Thy name!





THE OLD TRYSTING PLACE.


"Die erste Liebe ist die beste."

Through the green boughs the golden sunshine falling
  Glints on the glades and lonely woodland bowers;
Bird answers bird, through the wide woodlands calling,
  In the deep hush of the calm summer hours.

The limpid river winding through the meadows,
  Laughing and sparkling in the sunny noon,
Takes peaceful tones here, 'neath the beeches' shadows,
  And sings sweet idylls in low, fitful tune.

Songs of the olden days, of hopes and pleasures,
  Songs of the love of youth's glad morning times,
That sigh around our path like dream-world treasures,
  Soothing as music of the vesper chimes.

The rustic bridge, the leaves' soft shadows playing
  Down in the water-depths, and from away
'Mong the blue hills, come mingled echoes straying,
  The pleasant sounds that fill the summer day.

Aburnum's gold, and quivering beech-leaves blending,
  Sway, dancing in the breezes, to and fro;
Wild hyacinths, their blue heads lowly bending,
  Listen the secrets of the winds to know.

Oh! quaint old trysting-place! oh! lights and shadows,
  And sounds that haunt the dreams of Life's glad May!
Dreams withered like the May-flowers in the meadows
  Or roses of the Junes long passed away.

Here, oft in dreams, I see my own true maiden,
  The pure flower-face, the rippling golden hair;
Ah! many years have roll'd past, sorrow-laden,
  Since blue-eyed Edmee waited for me there!

Ah! murmuring brook, with waving willow fringes,
  Ah! woodland picture, all your charmed glow
Is touched and changed by Truth's own sober tinges,
  Tints that youth's eager eyes see not, nor know.

Fraught with these gleams of old-time faith and feeling,
  Fraught with the memory of "what might have been,"
A still, small voice says all is God's wise dealing,
  Behind the clouds is brightness yet unseen.

Young love and hope in all their matchless glory,
  Smile on our morning-time, then fade away;
Teaching unwilling hearts the sad, true story,
  No lasting joy is here, all knows decay.

"Die erste Liebe ist die beste," leaving
  A holy radiance round the scenes we knew;
A potent power to point lone spirits, grieving,
  To deathless Love whose charms are ever new.

It ever shows, "in part," in sweet tuition,
  What we shall know when we have gained the light,
When all our highest hopes fade in fruition,
  Where the Eternal Summer beameth bright.




THY WORD IS A LIGHT UNTO MY FEET.


Oh! Light of Lights! dark, dark is earth's long way,
Cloud upon cloud looms o'er the path I stray;
Far-off and dim the heavenly Land appears,
Through the thick mist of weak distrust--and fears.
Helpless, I seek Thy Word, and hear Thy voice,
That bids me always in the Lord rejoice;
Pointing from doubts within, and this world's wile
To peace and victory, in "a little while."

Oh! Saviour, Friend, how dark is life's rough path.
What gloom and sorrow haunts this Vale of Death;
Subtle the way, beset with many a snare
And hidden evils lurking everywhere.
But in this Light that shows my love, I see,
This path Thou'st trod, and borne these griefs, for me,
"Fear not!" I hear in tones of tenderest love
"'Tis in thy weakness that my strength I prove."

The world's temptations rage on life's wild sea,
Drifting the fragile bark I steer to Thee,
But safe I pass the rocks and angry waves,
Helped by Thy mighty arm that shields and saves.
And still above the wind's and water's roar
A calm voice hails me from the distant shore,
"Cast all your care undoubtingly on Me,
Fully and freely, for I care for thee."

When twilight shades fall round me, dim and grey,
All those I love the most are far away,
I look to Thee, and dry my willful tears--
With love like Thine, I dread no lonely years.
If 'tis Thy will, let bitter partings come,
Sweet shall the meetings be in yonder Home;
While here I have Thy love that cannot die,
And could I feel alone when Thou art nigh?

Weary with waiting for Thy promised rest,
Dismayed with doubts, with sinfulness distressed;
"Oh! let Thy kingdom come!" I pray "that I
May join the glad new song they sing on high;"
Then thy sweet words bring patience, "I prepare
For thee an heavenly mansion, bright and fair,
That where I am Thou mayest with Me abide,
And taste full joy for ever by My side."

I bless thee, Saviour, for this word of life,
This light to guide me safe through every strife,
This lantern o'er my pathway shining clear
To show the dangers, and the Helper near.
I love to see it beaming, day by day,
Thine own bright smile, that lights the darksome way;
"Led by Thy counsel," oh! what joy to be
"Received in glory," Lord, at last by Thee.




MEMORIES.


"In der Weit, weit,
Aus der Einsamkeit,
Wollen sie Dich locken."--FAUST.


When the glad, bright days of our youth's fresh prime,
  Shall have pass'd, as a dream that at morning dies;
When the long blank stretch of the coming time
  Like a desolate desert before us lies,
  Dreary and cheerless, 'neath sunless skies.

When young, sweet love, with her luring smile,
  The mystic charm-light of halcyon hours,
Shall no more with her witch'ry our souls beguile,
  As the leaves grow seer on Life's fading bowers,
  And the blushes are pale on its withering flowers.

When the strains we loved in the days of yore
  No more with their sweetness our heart's-chords thrill,
When Hope's roseate meteors glow no more,
  Like the summer sunrise o'er vale and hill,
  That our dreamings with radiance were wont to fill.

When these are gone, shall the lone heart know
  No solace the solitude's gloom to cheer?
Shall no stray beams lighten the spirit's woe
  As it moans "alone!" e'en when crowds are near?
  Must _all_ be lost that was once so dear?

Ah, no! Though Time is a thief, I ween,
  Stealing youth's best wealth as the swift years go,
Still the memories of pleasures which once have been--
  The dreams of the beautiful "Long ago,"
  Are our own to keep, and shall aye be so!




"THE KING IS DEAD."


Hush! There's a solemn pause,
  And looks of fear!
You ask--Whence comes the cause?
  Grim Death is here!

Oh! well thou answerest, well--
  'Tis fairly said;
Our hearts thrill to the knell,
  "The King is dead!"

Dead! And the bell swings, swings
  On in its deep, sad tone;
We own the King of Kings
  Is King alone!

We crown our Kings, we place
  Bay leaves on victors' brow,
But all our mortal race
  Can boast is _now._

The body lay in state,
  All fair to mortal eye;
The soul's eternal fate--
  Oh! Death, thy mystery!




TO "X. Y. Z.,"
On receiving a paper from him.

"Old places have a charm for me
  The new can ne'er attain;
Old faces--how I long to see
  Their kindly looks again!"--Anon.


"X. Y. Z.," your paper was
  A welcome thing, indeed, to me;
It brought the memories of old days,
  Like fragrance wafted o'er the sea.

It spake about familiar nooks,
  The dear old paths I know so well;
I almost thought I heard the brooks,
  Or roamed again my favourite dell.

The happy hours, the rustic glades,
  The gloaming time, the twilight stroll,
Ah, me! these April evening shades
  With old-time dreams can haunt one's soul.

The heart feels young again and free,
  And no such word is known as care;
Sweet rays of light that used to be
  Seem hovering in the twilight air!

The hedges and the fields of green,
  The lanes, the flowers, the wild bird's trill,
The trees, seen down the water's sheen.
  The cattle lowing o'er the hill!

Your well-drawn school-life picture, too,
  My school-time morn recalls again;
'Tis like an old tune, sweet and true,
  That mingles pleasing notes with pain.

The fields, the schools, the village way,
  The quaint, old-fashioned, country rhyme,
All come, like mystic glows that stray
  Across the yellowing fields of Time.

The English lanes have lovely flowers,
  And moss, and ferns, and birds that sing,
But Erin--green Erin--still is ours.
  And to her name our fond hearts cling.

Each land we visit claims some grace--
  Some special charm it calls its own;
Yet patriot souls must love the place
  Which childhood's happy memories crown.




LOVE.


When first from Eden's blissful bowers,
  Man roamed o'er earth in exile driven,
Kind Heaven, to cheer his lonely hours,
  A source of joy to him hath given.

'Tis Love, that lights our darkest days,
  'Tis Love, that cheers our keenest woe,
'Tis Love, whose soul inspiring rays,
  Gilds all our lives with heaven-lent glow.

Ambition leads us for a while
  To follow many a meteor light--
Whose flickering beams our souls beguile,
  And lure us on to hopeless night.

And Fame may sound her clarion voice--
  Wealth bring his hoards from every clime,
But Age shall come, and earth's frail joys
  Must own the sway of sovereign Time.

But Love, as flying years go past,
  Shall glow with holier, tenderer beam,
And shine, our guiding star at last
  Till our dull hearts shall catch a gleam.

And when our life on earth is o'er
  And we from all our toil shall rest,
The beams of Love will light that shore
  Where Love has ransomed all the Blest!




A BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.


"Tis sweet, when year by year we lose
Friends out of sight, in faith to muse
How grows in Paradise our store!"--KEBLE.

His Birthday! but to-night there is no gladness,
  As in the bright old days forever flown;
And in my heart one aching thought of sadness
  Seems ever whispering, Alone! Alone!

The darkness gathers round, and, wan and olden,
  The worn day paler grows, and dies away,
And all life's light and brightness now seem folden
  Beneath the twilight's dusky mantle gray.

The old church tower, amid the shadows looming,
  Stands grim and sombre in the dying light;
The trees with leafless branches shiver, moaning,
  As the sad winds sigh softly through the night.

Weird looks the ruined church, where ivy creeping
  Decks the old walls fast mouldering in decay;
And peace rests o'er the graves in whose calm keeping,
  In quiet safety, sleeps the treasured clay.

Here in this corner, where his grave is lying,
  The fir trees throw deep shade, and soft and low,
When summer eve or winter day is dying,
  The winds seem ever sighing songs of woe!

Oh! cherished spot! beloved beyond all measure,
  Your holy peace that brings a balm so blest!
When turning from the world, in grief or pleasure,
  I seek your calm, and hunger for your rest!

How feeble, then, seem all the ties that bound me
  To this world's ways, that held such charms for me
And heaven-born dreams and holy thoughts surround me
  Until from earth's vain things my soul is free!

Then do I feel this wound of Mercy's giving
  Draws all my hopes from earth to holier love.
An e'en while here, sin-stained and lonely living,
  My heart is with my treasure fixed above!

Still, looking upward to the Heavenly Mansion,
  Where he abides--where we shall meet him there--
Where soul with soul shall blend in the expansion
  Of that world's higher life, immortal, fair!

That land of beauty, where the Lamb in glory
  Gathers His own to perfect bliss and peace,
Where all the ransomed sing Redemption's story
  In joys celestial that can never cease.

Thrice happy lot was thine, oh, blessed spirit!
  So early called from this dark vale of woe--
From chequered scenes of warfare--to inherit
  That perfect love that God's own favoured know.

Then could we wish thee back to dwell with mortals
  And bear those storms that toss Time's troubled sea?
No! from that home beyond the pearly portals
  Thou canst not come, but we will go to thee!







IN MEMORIAM

OF

R. A. WILSON, ESQ.,

EDITOR OF THE BELFAST MORNING NEWS.


Fair vales of Ulster! in the noontide smiling,
  Blue Northern mountains, frowning to the sky;
Rivers that flow along, with song beguiling
  The summer day _your_ beauties, too, must die!

Know ye no _requiem_? Ah! streamlets borrow
  Your tones from tearful voices! Mountains blue,
O'er your high heads let heavy clouds of sorrow
  Tell that ye mourn the death of Patriot true.

Erin! green Erin! let your great heart feel it!
  Bid all your sons and daughters, fair and brave,
By dropping tears and mourning faces tell it,
  As they place laurels on a new-made grave!

Lowly he lies to day? Death's deep, calm slumber
  Has claimed another of our cherished ones;
As he, the talented, ranks with the number
  Of Erin's lost, best-loved--her gifted sons!

"Barney Maglone" is dead! Let the winds sighing
  On their fleet wings, bear far the wail of woe
To every land. Let them in wild, sad crying
  Tell out to all the sorrow that we know.

_Our_ Poet, and not all Westminster's glory
  Could ever give him half so loved a grave
As this green mound, with simple cross, whose story
  Shall live 'mong annals of our gifted brave!

Methinks that far among old Ireland's mountains
  I hear the breezes sing a sad dirge, low,
Wild, and yet soft, with tears from many fountains
  And murmuring riven wailing in their flow.

The grand old woods, with leafy branches waving,
  Mingle their many harps in one refrain,
Blent with the waves, whose foam our coast is laving,
  Rolling afar, weeping aloud the strain--

Waters and wondrous deep,
  Mountains and valleys;
Woodlands and heathery steep,
  Lone greenwood alleys,

Sound the long wail of woe,
Tell the news, sad and low,
Let all the wide world know
  Of the loved, lost one!

Waves of deep, boundless sea,
Boiling for ever free,
Tell through the time to be
  Of the bright, lost one!

Erin, whose bosom green,
His own, his loved shrine has been,
Feel the woe thou hast seen
  For the true, lost one!

His land, in weal or woe,
In dark gloom or sunny glow,
Do all Ireland's great ones know
  Such zeal as this lost one?

Bright dreams! ah, how fleeting
  Was his life's fair story!
Swift, swift was the meeting
  Of Death, with earth's glory!

Unrivalled in splendour
  His sky was at morning,
Still brightening, its grandeur
  His noonday adorning.

But a dark cloud rose glooming,
  Ah, me! 'twas Death's shadow!
It chilled the heat blooming
  Of hillside or meadow!

Oh, waters and wondrous deep,
  Mountains and valleys,
Woodlands and heathery steep,
  Lone greenwood alleys--

Sound the weird wail of woe,
  Tell the news sad and low,
Let all the wide world knew
  Of Erin's best lost one!




WELCOME TO SPRING.


Oh, Spring! sweet Spring! with your golden hours,
Thrice welcome back to our vales and bowers!
I have sighed for you through the Winter's gloom,
And counted the months, till again you come.
  Then, welcome, sweetest! I hail you here,
  Fairest child of the smiling year!

I have watched for your advent with longing eyes,
As you lingered 'neath sunnier southern skies;
I have wafted songs o'er the winds to thee
The sighs of a lover's fond constancy.
  Then, welcome, darling! to glen and grove,
  Child of gladness, and nope, and love!

I see your footprints along the woods,
And your magic touch on the opening buds,
Bursting to birth on hedge and tree,
In promise of vernal life to be.
  Then, welcome, Spring! to our land again,
  Bringing beauty and me in your happy train!

I have marked where you paused by the streamlet's side,
There smiled the primrose, in early pride,
All golden fair 'mid her leaves of green.
Dropped from your garland, oh, beauteous queen!
  Then, welcome! to brighten our long-left bower
  Fair child of sunshine, and joy, and flowers!

I have paused entranced in the early morn,
When the birds awoke as the day was born,
Pealing welcomes wild in their native glee.
And my heart went out in their songs to thee,
  On the fresh winds borne o'er the hills along,
  Child of music, and mirth, and song!

Oh, Spring! sweet Spring! 'neath your gentle reign.
Life, light, and beauty are born again;
And sad hearts, hopeless in Winter days,
Break forth to singing glad songs of praise--
  For that promise renewed in your yearly birth
  Of a fadeless Spring and a ransomed Earth!




ONLY "A LITTLE WHILE."


I saw the sun arise in light at morning;
  My being drank the beauty, like some dream
That comes when all is dark, the gloom adorning
  With gilding mystic--bright--a soul-world gleam

I saw the noontide flush on grove and meadow,
  I heard the coo of birds that seem'd at rest;
And the fair radiance, all undimm'd by shadow,
  Was like a foretaste of the bright and blest.

I saw, when evening's mellow sunlight glinted,
  Far and anear, gleaming on wood and gold;
Mountain and valley shone all carmine-tinted,
  Old Ocean's burnished breast seem'd heaving gold.

Only "a little while" since morn rose brightly,
  Followed by noontide calm: a little while
Since sunset glory lit all Nature, lightly
  Blessing the earth with one sweet parting smile.

Only "a little while" a meet type, showing
  How brief is earth's short day--how soon 'tis o'er;
Morn, noon, and night, still onward, onward going,
  So soon to land us on the eternal shore.

Only "a little while," poor child of sadness!
  The shadows must come first, the clouds and gloom;
Then, the full glow of Heaven, the new born gladness,
  When Christ, thy risen Lord, prepares thee room.

In that fair Home, where He has passed before us,
  And in "a little while," shall call us in;
Here, with His love's own glory shining o'er us,
  Strong in His strength, we run that goal to win!

Only "a little while," gay child of pleasure!
  The night is spent so far--the morn is near;
Then think! oh, think! where hast thou hid thy treasure?
  In these frail, dying toys that charm thee here.

Oh! in "a little while," their borrowed radiance
  Shall fade, as starlight fades when dawn is nigh;
And all earth's glittering show, her smiles and fragrance,
  In the fierce fire of wrath shall melt and die!

Only "a little while!" would we but ponder
  These three brief words, their length and breadth and
height
A solemn sign to each, a ray of wonder
  From the Unseen, to light the spirit's night.

"A little while"--past, present, future blending
  Shall be a tale soon told, and pass'd for aye;
Then the eternal life, that cannot die--unending,
  Undying woe, or Heaven's own dazzling day.



LIFE'S PATHWAY.


We walk among labyrinths of wonder, but tread the mazes with
     a club;
We sail in chartless seas, but behold! the Pole-star is above
     us--TUPPER.

Life is a pathway, stretched from morn till eve,
  O'er which, through shade and sunshine, we must go
And, whether bright or dark this life we live,
  Its end must bring us unto joy or woe;
Joy, that no mortal's holiest dreams can know,
  Or dread, unending; fearful depths of woe!

This path is fair at morning, wondrous fair;
  With verdant windings, hiding from the view
The far-off journey, and what may be there,
  Hid by the Future hilltops, high and blue;
And morn's glad sunlight smiles from dazzling skies,
  Gilding the path we tread with heaven-lent dyes.

Oh! youth is sweet! for tender hands are near,
  And eyes aglow with Love's own magic ray,
Heart meeting heart, each to the other dear--
  Through hours that, ere we count them, glide away;
For none can turn to seek a cherished place--
One only life, whose path we can't retrace!

And soon they pass, these meteor joys of earth,
  That flash and gleam along the troubled way;
Till wondering wanderers question if their birth
  Dawns from a Land that knows no sad decay;
Some sinless region, from whose portals bright
These fleeting rays descent in heavenly light.

Such glorious hues, in golden glory glowing,
  When sunrise splendour glads the morning sky;
That bloom awhile, and as they bloom bestowing
  Beauty and light, so soon to melt and die,
Leaving a yearning in the darkened heart
To know more closely what we see in part.

The noonday calm, the sunny Summer hours,
  The wild-birds' warbled songs, the balmy air;
Life's early pathway strewn with earth's sweet flowers--
  Can these be dying things--so bright, so fair?
Or lights to lead us o'er a chequered road,
And cheer the shadows to a blest abode?

Oh! spell-bound Fancy fain would wander far,
  If we might only break this mortal thrall;
And roam, unshackled, o'er Time's broken bar,
  Trace these gleams whose glory lights on all!
Then would we see in all below, above,
The Great Creator's perfect power and love.

Yet in this path that stretched before us lies
  We may, as oft with weary feet we tread
Through chequered ways of change, see through the mysteries
  The living promise from their gleamings shed,
That far from mortal things, and sin, and care,
There is a glorious world, unchanging, fair.

Oh! may we trace in all that lives and grows
  The shadows of a perfect life, unseen;
As when some star that in the twilight glows
  In mirrored dimly in the water's sheen,
And we can see, in the calm lake's cool breast,
The far-off glow that lingers in the West.

Thus, as we onward go, may thoughts be ours
 Whose holy pureness in our souls may raise
An anthem of thanksgiving, till life's hours,
 Ending, shall find our hearts' attuned to praise
That Love which cheered us on earth's chequered way,
O'er the long path that led to Cloudless Day!




CLOUDS IN MAY.


"May is here, sweet 'Mois de Marie,' but my sky is
 overcast!"--ST. GERMAN.

The hush of twilight, fair and still
    Great cloud-ranks, bright with gorgeous dyes
    That linger in the Western skies,
Ere Night's deep gloom steals o'er the hill.
The wind sighs softly round the eaves,
   The May's fresh sweetness fills the air,
   And Peace seems hovering everywhere.
Oh, restless heart, that aches and grieves!--
Grieves when the earth is bright and green,
   And Summer's balmy breeze and flowers
   Are brightening, charming all the hours
That span the long, long "bridge between"
Dear hopes and their fruition, laid
   In many a way, by human plan.
   But ah! these dream-world thoughts of man
Soon, soon can droop, and blight and fade!

We know 'tis best. Then wherefore try
    To ask whence come the darksome clouds?
    We know 'tis God's own hand that shroud
Our coming days in mysteries.
"A little while," and there is room
    In that bright, blessed land above,
    To see, and feel, and taste the love
That sends us now the clouds and gloom.
Why come the clouds? God only knows
    Why human hearts need pain and woe;
    But Faith's glad gleams still come and go,
Like sunbeams flashing on the snows
Of earth's dark winter-time, and He
    Shall smile at last, and frosts shall melt,
    And heavenly sunshine shall be felt
When Time fades in Eternity




A FRAGMENT.


"My spirit beats her mortal bars
As down dark tides the glory glides,
Then, star-like, mingles with the stars."--TENNYSON.

Oh, restful peace of night! The balmy air
Laden with myriad sounds of things so fair,
The waving branches, and the leaves' low whispering
The wondrous songs the winding river sings,
That through the meadow-lands and forest ways,
By flowery nooks, and glades, and valleys strays.

Oh! shadowy time of dreams, and mysteries,
And longing hopes! Far in the dark blue skies
The star-worlds glimmer brightly through the night;
The flowers are sleeping that at close of day
Wept dew-tears, as the sun's last fading light
From glen and moor land slowly passed away,
When amorous zephyrs wooed them softly sighing
In odorous breaths, as eve's last glow was dying.

Oh! stars, that through the darkness smile and gleam,
Like glory-rays that gild the dreary gloom,
Or like some soul-world glance or mystic dream
That from the mind's vast store of summer bloom
We feel at times--your influence comes to raise
Our hearts above earth's night of doubts and haze
For all these holy thoughts of peace, that spring
From hearts at rest from daytime cares and pains,
Are messengers of love, sent from the King
That in the blessed country lives and reigns.
And from its gates, above the starry heaven,
Come mystic rays that round our pathway stray--
His guiding lights that to our souls are given,
Foretastes that cheer and brighten all our way!




SPRING THOUGHTS.


"Of the bright things in earth and air
  How little can the heart embrace-
Soft shades and gleaming lights are there
  I know it well, but cannot trace!"--KEBLE

Spring comes again, and the freed flowers are springing
  From the cold, frost-bound earth;
And on the budding trees the wild birds singing,
  Hail Nature's glad new birth!

And hope awakes from many a heart-grave using,
  Glad gloriously and new;
And many souls, in faith and trust, are prizing
  That promise sweet and true;

Summer and Winter, ever coming, going,
  Springtime and Harvest days,
And falling leaves and opening buds are showing
  God's ever faithful ways.

That point us to the resurrection morning,
  And to the gladsome day,
When light eternal, the far East adorning,
  Shall chase these glooms away.

And she shall rise who left our home so early,
  And left our hearts in gloom,
Clad like the flowers, in beauty's bloom all fairly
  Arising from the tomb.

In that fair Spring and in that Summer shadeless,
  With her we, too, shall live--
There, 'neath His smile whose glory, beaming fadeless,
  Eternal peace shall give.

And all these ties that Time's rough hand had driven
  Shall be united there,
And every cross a Father's hand had given
 Be gemmed with jewels fair!




LINES.


On reading "Lays of Love and Fatherland," by X. Y. Z.

Oh! say not now that Erin's harp
  Is left untouched by minstrel hand;
Oh! say not that no minstrel heart
  Sings now of "Love and Fatherland."
Green Ulster's mountains and her vales
  Hear once again a patriot's lyre;
Ierna's legendary tales
  Once more are told in patriot fire!

And hearts beat high, as when of old
  In chieftain's hall or peasant's cot
The stories of our land were told
  In songs whose spell was half forgot
Till, touched again, the chords resound
  That bid our slumbering zeal return,
And souls, so long in coldness bound,
  With old-time fire and fervour burn!

And favoured ones, whom love shall bless
  In life's bright, sunny morning hours,
Shall sing in joy and happiness
  These songs in Hope's enchanted bowers,
For youth hath dreams, and tho' they go
  like sunset fading from the sky,
The cherished songs of "long ago,"
  While memory lives, can never die.

Song's potent powers, like holy things
  That hover round our path unseen,
On airy wings, to fancy brings
  Old scenes, new-clad in fairy sheen.
And like sweet music heard at eve
  In some cathedral, old and grey,
Such songs can cheer the hearts that grieve,
  And chase all present gloom away.




IF "SOMEONE" LOVES US.


If life's path grows dull and dreary,
   With grim shadows on it cast;
If the tired heart grows weary
   When all joy seem o'er and past;
When e'en Hope hath ceased to cheer us
  With its warm and sunny ray,
And the peace that once was near us
 From our pathway steals away
   There's one source where we can borrow
    Sweetest wealth to keep and claim,
   If we feel in joy or sorrow
   _Someone_ loves us all the same!

If fair-faced Pleasure brightly
  Beam upon our happy home,
And our hearts with hope beat lightly
  Of brighter days to come;
If fickle Fortune, smiling,
  Strew the pleasant path with flowers,
And Mirth, with song beguiling,
  Lead the merry-footed hours--
    There's a deeper, holier gladness
     That is ours to keep and claim,
    If we feel in joy or sadness
     _Someone_ loves us all the same!

If our thoughts, at evening blending
   With the dim and shadowy light,
Bring us dreams of bliss unending
   In the Haven, calm and bright--
Oh! how sweet the thought--"for ever
   'Mong the sinless _we_ shall stand,
There united, ne'er to sever,
    In the bright and better land:"
      And e'en then, refined and holy,
        Free from earthly stain and sin,
      Shall the pure heart, meek and lowly,
        Wear the crown true love shall win.




NEW YEAR'S SONG.


"Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky.
  The flying clouds, the frosty light;
  The year is dying in the night--
Ring out, wild bells, and let it die!

"Ring out the Old; ring in the New!
  Ring, happy bells, across the snow!
  The year is going; let it go--
Ring out the false! ring in the truer!"--TENNYSON.


Oh! welcome! welcome! glad New Year!
  We hail with joy your birth.
Let peace and love reign far and near,
  And plenty fill the earth!

Old Year, good-bye! a last good-bye
  To sorrow, woe and sin!
Let all of darkness with thee die
  And all of light begin!

When first we bade you welcome here
  We hailed you with delight;
But ah! how many then were near,
  So far away to-night!

Ah! well! if thorns were 'mong thy flowers,
  Or clouds were in thy sky,
We owe thee many blissful hours
  Whose memory ne'er can die!

Farewell, farewell, for aye, Old Year,
  And as you pass from view,
For all those golden hours a tear
  That pass away with you!

"Le Roi est mort!" "Vive le Roi!"
  The Old Year, weeping, dies!
Ere we can mourn, a joyous chime
  Peals through the midnight skies.

Oh! welcome! welcome! New-born Year!
  We join the strains of joy;
To everyone our hearts hold dear
  Be peace without alloy!

May fadeless light their pathway bless;
  And, for a lasting stay,
Oh! may they find that happiness
  That cannot pass away.

For years may come, and years may go,
  And earthly joys grow old;
But heavenly love no change can know--
  No time can make it cold.

Oh! welcome! welcome! New-born Year!
  And, as we hail your birth,
May pure and holy thoughts come near
  And raise our hopes from earth!




OUR NATIVE LAND.


Our Native Land! Our Native Land!
  Long may old Erin's vales be green;
May plenty smile on every hand,
  Be want and woe unseen!
Oh! let us join with heart and hand
To raise the song--Our Native Land!

Our Native Land! Our Native Land!
  May countless blessings on her smile
May dove-eyed Peace her lily-wand
  Wave o'er pure Emerald Isle--
Her sons, united brethren, stand,
To raise the song--Our Native Land!

Our Native Land! Our Native Land!
  Let patriot voices join the song,
And swell the chorus high and grand,
  Till every breeze shall bear it on.
O'er flowery mead and wave-kissed strand
Loud let it ring--Our Native Land!

Our Native Land! Our Native Land!
  Let Erin's sense the notes prolong,
Together joined-a mighty band
  United by one common song.
'Tis Honour's right-her just command
Then let us love Our Native Land!




TO THE SEA.


Oh! rolling waves, while ye sing around me,
  My poises beat to your fitful tune,
And higher thoughts in my breast awaken,
  But the spell must vanish too soon, too soon.
Here while I lie let your echoes linger,
  And rest awhile on this lute of mine;
And though I play with an erring finger,
  The sounds shall charm if they're caught from thine.
And my song shall be rich in melody,
  Learned from thy singing, oh' tuneful Sea!

Sadly sigh while the clouds loom o'er thee,
  Dark and grey in yon stormy sky;
Foaming billows, your angry wailing
  Fills my soul like a hopeless cry!
Heaving breast with your great heart throbbing
  Ocean pulses that wildly thrill;
Wandering waves in such cadence breaking,
  Rolling, rolling, and never still.
Oh! that my soul, like thine, were free,
Eager and restless, oh! beautiful Sea!

The clouds disperse, and like glory breaking
  In fancy's eyes o'er a poet's dream,
Clad in the sunlight the waters glisten,
  And dazzling bright in the radiance gleam.
Far and wide o'er the scene of grandeur
  My glad eyes wander, my heart beats high;
Lost in a maze of light and wonder,
  I faint in a dream of ecstasy;
And the spirit of beauty thou seem'st to me
In that flood of glory, oh! changing Sea!

Yet best I love when the mystic gloaming
  Grows dim, and the crimson sunset dies;
For I dream that your mighty tones are changing,
  And in psalms of praise through the shadows rise.
Oh! Nature's organ! Methinks thy numbers
  Keep time with the songs of Cherubim,
While through hidden caves come the echoes swelling
  Their chorus grand to the ocean hymn;
And my soul, adorning, ascends with thee,
In deep thanksgiving, oh! wondrous Sea!




A FAREWELL SONG.


Oh! sometimes when our hearts are gay,
  And Pleasure round us smiles,
Too soon the hours may pass away
  That rosy Mirth beguiles;
And we may feel a tinge of pain
  Amid the festal cheer,
And pause to ask, "When, when again,
  Shall all be gathered here?"

But ah! the future's dusky veil
  Hides coming years from view;
And still our yearning eyes must fail
  To pierce its darkness through.
But Memory can hold the past
  That we have loved so well;
And, like a halo round it cast,
  Affection's light may dwell.

And thus, my friends, though call'd away
  To join another scene,
My thoughts shall often backward stray
  To all that once has been.
And bygone hours shall come again--
  The cherished times and dear.
And bring the moments in their train
  When I was with you here.

And as sweet flowers, tho' sere and dead,
  Can by their fragrance bring
Remembrance of the days long fled
  Again on Memory's wing.
So many a kindly smile I'll mourn
  With deep and fond regret;
For though I never may return,
  I never can forget.




SOLITUDE.


"Solitude delighteth well to feed on many thoughts;
There, as thou sittest peaceful, communing with Fancy,
The precious poetry of life shall gild its leaden cares"
--TUPPER


Come, Solitude! best soother of my mind--
  The sole companion of my happiest hours;
  The spell, all potent, of thy gentle powers
Here in this lovely spot, I come to find.

Below yon mountains, in the sunset beams,
  Lough Neagh's glassy waters widely spread;
  And through the distance, like a shining thread,
The "Silver Bann" along the valley gleams.

Lough Neagh! often in the evening light
  I've watched the golden sunset kiss thy breast,
  Then, as it died on many a wavelet's crest,
Homeward, unwilling, turned, with fond "Goodnight."

The bare trees in the planting moan and sigh;
  I've watched their leaves from buds, till they had grown
  To vernal beauty. Withered now and strewn
Upon the walks, all sere and dead they lie.

And in the Spring, when the young leaves came first,
  Here, often in my lone imaginings,
  What golden dreams I knew of glorious things;
Visions my willing mind too fondly nurse.

Visions that, like the leaves, to beauty grew,
  Gladdening my heart thro' sunny summer hours;
  Clad in bright garlands, woven from Fancy's bowers
Radiant with Hope's fair light of mellow hue.

And are they withered too? All those swept dreams
  That I had hoped in future years to see
  Around me bloom, in living, grand reality;
No longer far-off things, or misty, meteor gleams.

Some like these leaves, have fallen by the way,
  Never again in spring to wake to birth;
  While some are mine e'en now, whose priceless worth
Shall bloom and ripen, knowing no decay!

Round me the shadows deepen; and I see
  My dead dreams in a phantom band draw near.
  And dim AEolian strains fall on my ear,
like some wild mystic requiem's fitful melody!

Oh! Solitude! thou canst alone restore
  The buried bygone, till the haunted isles
  Of memory's chambers shine in moonlight smiles
Shadows of sunlight from the days of yore.

Oh! Solitude! come often for my guest!
 Still, when I meet thee in sequestered glade,
 I feel thy presence lasting peace has made;
Of life's sweet things, I hold thee first and best!




WITH A WHITE ROSE.


Long ago, in ages olden,
  When our world was new;
When old Time was young and golden,
  When men's hearts were true;
Fairer flowers than now are growing
  Blossom'd everywhere--
Beauty to the earth bestowing,
  Sweetness to the air!

Well men loved them, fondly dreaming
  They were not of earth;
In their glorious beauty seeming
  Of a higher birth.
And in those Elysian bowers,
  In the days of old,
Speaking all their thoughts in flowers,
  Thus their love they told:--

One alone, of purest whiteness,
  Of them all was queen;
Sweeter than their hues of brightness
  Was its snowy sheen.

If this flower as pledge were given
  By true hearts in love,
Though on earth by sad doubts driven,
  Yet their life above
Would be one in joy unending,
  Undivided there,
Soul with soul in glory blending
  In that kingdom fair.

This the legend I have told thee
     Of the flower I send.
Oh, may its sweet leaves unfold thee
     Hope, with such an end!




"THE EXILE'S REVERIE."


It is sweet to dream of the vanished times, in this changing
     land of ours,
When we touch the hidden spring of thought, with the wand of
     mystic powers,
That Remembrance yields to our yearning hearts, that are
     lonely left, and pine
For the loves once ours, till shadowy forms come round us,
     and flit and shine.

Through the gloom that wraps the earth-tired soul, that
     drifts on life's sea apart,
Missing the clasp of a kindred hand, or thrill of heart to
     heart.
Alone! alone! on the wide, wide world, where hope can console
     no more;
Alone! alone! on the friendless waste, strange, on a stranger
     shore.

Oft times when the gloaming gathers round, and the night wind
     moans on the hill
Like a ghostly voice from the buried dead, when all around is
     still,
In the midnight darkness and silence, I call through the mist
     and maze,
To the sunny joys of the glad, bright dream, of the golden,
     bygone days.

Then the poem of the wakened long-ago, to the music of memory
     flows,
Now filled as with bridal gladness, now wailing out dirge-
     like woes;
Through sunshine and summer glories, through brightness and
     fragrant blooms,
Through howling storms, 'neath winter skies, through weeping
     and murky glooms.

And then, when the weird strain ceases, and  the fitful music
     is done,
The pictures I love to gaze on, rise slowly, one by one
Through the mist of the past slow coming, they give to our
     eyes once more,
What Death has stolen from me, and Death can alone restore.

Again, as in early childhood, I feel the fond caress
Of my mother's lips, or I hear the tones of my father's voice
     that bless
His child in its gleeful gambols; Oh! happy and peaceful
     hours!
Ye come in visions of golden noons, and sunshine, and shady
     bowers!

And the low-breathed prayer when the sunset glow'd crimson in
     the West,
And the sweet "Good-night," and the tender kiss, ere I sank
     to tranquil rest;
Mother! that prayer still haunts me, adown  the dreary years,
And the earnest tones of thy gentle voice, can steep my soul
     in tears.

My brothers! faithful hearted! strong in your love, and true;
Oh! breaking heart, do you mock me?  Can _they_ have
     perished too?
In their morning time, when they shared my dreams of a Crown
     and a Life-fight won,
Thank God, it was their's so early, when my fight had but
     begun!

Oh, darling, best-beloved! keen now is the aching smart,
As when Death's chill touch on our clasped hands fell, when
     he breathed the hard word "part,"
Only for earth's short span, my sweet, for love can never
     die,
And the spirit bond but strengthens, as Time's wild waves
     sweep bye.

Mine! by the vows soft-whispered, where hand in hand we
     strayed
In twilight hours, through summer lanes, or roamed in the
     lonely glade;
But the dream in its glory perished, and earth's brightest
     hope was fled,
And light from my life was faded, when they laid thee with
     the dead!

Elsie! my bright-haired sister! tender blossom and pure!
You drooped in that last storm's fury, too fragile its might
     to endure;
And then I left the home-nest when my last sweet dove had
     flown,
And sought to forget, amid stranger scenes, the sorrows my
     soul had known.

It's thus the shadowy phantoms come back from the spirit-
     shore,

When I cry in my lonely anguish for the joys now mine no
     more.
I thrill with a passion'd yearning for the fuller life to be,
When my tired soul faints in wonder, lost in earth's
     mystery!




CHURCH ISLAND, COUNTY DERRY.


  "Oh, search with mother-love the gifts
   Our land can boast;
Fair Erna's isles--Neagh's wooded slopes--
   Green Antrim's coast."--MACCARTHY.

In peerless beauty, flushing, glowing,
   O'er broad Lutigh Neagh's breast,
The sunset banner hovers, throwing
   Its glory over the West.
And varied banks of glen and wood,
That smile round Neagh's smiling flood,
In this sweet hour seem fitting theme
For Poet's song or artist's dream.

Round the horizon, sternly frowning,
   The mountains like a barrier rise,
The purple range, Slieve Gallion crowning,
   Towers grimly to the western skies.
Northward Losgh Beg's bright waters play
Round the Church Isle, where, lone and grey.
The ruined pile with ivied walls
To present days the past recalls.

On many a grave the sunset gleams,
   Where calmly rest the sleeping dead--
Tired mortals, done with mortal dreams
   In other life, whetted they have fled.
E'en now they live! Oh! if tonight
One soul might earthward take its flight,
In awful tones methinks t'would say--
"Prepare for death, oh child of clay!"

Oh, time-worn walls! full many a word
   Ye echoed in the Sabbath calm;
Love, warning, blessing, oft ye heard,
   And solemn prayer, and chanted psalm;
And funeral dirge, as wild and high'
Rose on the gale the _caione_-cry,
Borne far and wide, o'er fern and brake,
As passed the cortege o'er the lake.

And legends of the days gone by
   Tell that if, when a funeral train
Passed there, dark clouds swept over the sky,
   And howled the wind and sobbed the rain,
Such storm was still an omen blest,
And told the spirit's happy rest.
If all were calm--then woe the dead!
Sad rose their wailing, weird and dread!

And that before a chieftain's death,
   On moonless nights, by lightning shown,
How oft they saw the water-wraith,
   And heard the weeping banshee's groan.
How many a barque, at midnight toss'd
And in the angry waters lost,
In the gray dawn-light seemed to glide
In phantom-beauty o'er the tide.

But ah! the past and all its lore
  Is fading from our hearts away,
And memories of the times of yore
  Are all forgotten in to day!
And now, 'tis but by peasants old
These cherished legends can be told;
For Erin's harp is mute and still,
Its mystic notes no heart can thrill!

Once minstrel hearts awoke its strain,
  And swept its chords with master-hand;
But who can wake these lays again
  In songs of love and fatherland?
Oh! when again shall such as they
Wake passion'd song and warrior's lay?
Till Erin's vales once more resound
With harp-notes long in silence bound!




LIVINGSTONE.


At last thou art resting; thy life-work is ended--
  Thy life-work so nobly and faithfully done;
And thy name, with the names of the mightiest blended,
  Shall be honored and loved as the ages roll on!

Far away in the wilds, as thy life-scene closed slowly,
  How thy soul must have pined for one home-voice to cheer;
But the God, ever kind, of the high and the lowly,
  With blessings and strength to thy spirit was near!

How sweet to thy tired soul that glorious light breaking
  In beauty untold o'er the land of the blest,
As thou heard'st, in the hour of that wond'rous awaking--
  "Well done, faithful servant, now enter thy rest!"

Great Britain's Columbus--her son and our glory!
  Her true hearts with love shall beat high at thy name;
Thou shalt stand 'mong the first in our country's proud
story,
And be graven with fire on the Temple of Fame!

Oh! that some minstrel soul, from the days long departed
  Would awake, a meet requiem o'er thee to sing--
And tell of thy brave deeds--the high, lion-hearted--
  Till the listening nations their homage would bring!




A DREAM AT SUNRISE.


Sapphire and rosy brightness in the East;
Fresh, light-winged zephyrs o'er the hilltops stray
And through the valleys roam, through glens and woods
Waking the leaves and flowers to morning life,
Seeming to tell to all--"The sun is near!"
Slow--brightening now, the rose-light deeper grown
The sapphire flames in wondrous golden maze,
And, all unrivalled, the great King of Day,
In dazzling glory, mounts his regal throne!

To me a vision down the sunbeams came,
When wrapt in wonder by the beauty-spell,
My soul, entranced, afar from earth did soar,
Unshackled, free, and drank the grandeur of the hour
Brightest and fairest hour of all the day,
When new life thrills the veins as when of old
The morning stars their high thanksgivings raised,
And all the sons of God did shout for joy!
Wondering, I cried, "Oh, Earth is very fair!
I cannot see the shadow of man's fall
On aught around me--sin has left no trace:
Oh! for a bower in such a scene as this,
Where Love and Beauty, blessed by Peace, might dwell!"

Then round me, on the light wind softly borne,
I heard the numbers of an unseen harp,
And turning, saw an angel near me stand.
He sang of earthly love, and the soft tones
Of his sweet harp were like Aeolian strains
Far breathing o'er some blissful Eden world!
And as I listened, all my holiest dreams
Of harmony, ideal, grand, and high,
Seem'd discord. Then methought I saw,
Upon the morning hills, a bower arise.
Bright flowers of wondrous hues around it bloomed,
All, all of beauty that the heart could dream
Was there; and, lov'lier far than all,
A sweet-eyed maiden, twining rose-wreaths fair!

Dark clouds arose and dimmed the glowing sky;
The lightnings flashed, and fearful thunder pealed;
And, as they shook the bower, I hid mine eyes,
Fearing to see the beauteous visions fade.

The fierce storm ceased. I raised mine eyes again,
And saw the wreck of what was once so fair;
The flowers had perished, and the maiden wept--
Then all the picture melted into air!

"This shows," the angel said, "what sin has done;
Death and decay must fall on earthly things.
See that you read God's mighty Teacher right--
The Book of Nature wide before you spread.
'Twas given for man to look on, love, and learn;
But men have eyes, and will not read its lore--
Ears, and the God-sent teachings will not hear!
Earth's glories and her brightness all must fade;
Yet, while they linger, still they say, 'Prepare.'"




"LINES ON VISITING EARLY SCENES."


Oh! well-known scenes of childhood's days,
  Again ye meet my longing eyes;
And still, as memory backward strays,
  A thousand tender visions rise;
Of days when youth's all potent powers
Could trace in light the coming hours,
Of dreams that withered with the flowers
           That round my pathway sprung!

When fond Belief, unchill'd by Time,
  Built airy castles, high and grand;
When fickle Fancy's dreams sublime
  Made Earth appear a fairyland!
Yon school-house seems the same to day--
Each well-remembered turn and way
Are there--yet, ah! how far away
           Are childhood's hours from me!

Still, still the same--the cherished scene,
   That ever thro' the varying years,
Deep-graven on my heart has been,
   In morns of joy--in nights of tears.
And oft in darksome times of pain,
When hope seem'd dead, and comfort vain,
Ye shone upon life's desert plain
          A friendly light, and true.

And often when the tide of care
  Beat strong against my fragile bark--
When stormy doubt loom'd everywhere,
  With nought to light the gloomy dark--
The faith I knew in early days,
Ere yet I trod the world's hard ways,
Led gently through the 'wildering maze,
           And whispered words of peace!

Sweet peace, amid the din and strife
  And holy thoughts and calm repose;
The promise of a better life--
  The joy that from _believing_ flows!
As when amid these scenes I'd stray,
And dream through all the golden day
Of coming years, in bright array,
           Till earth would seem a heaven!

The Hand that led Youth's steps aright,
  The Love that blessed its careless hours--
Shall they not strengthen for the fight,
  Then wreathe the Victor's brow with flowers?
Yes! and ere from these scenes I go,
I've learned what all must come to know--
Earth's wisdom is but empty show--
           "The child shall teach the man!"




IDOL WORSHIP.


Idol worship in these later ages,
  When the light of learning shines so clear,
Golden sayings graved on million pages--
  Wisdom's voices sounding far and near.

Idol worship, subtle and deceiving,
  Lives mis-spent and talents thrown away;
Grim remorse, and after years of grieving--
  Skeletons that haunt us night and day.

Idols have we manifold in number--
  Idols worshipped both in age and youth;
Visions that beguile life's fitful slumber,
  Soul-destroying, blinding us to truth.

All unreal dreams that fade and perish,
  Painted idols, rich in gilded shrines--
Airy phantoms that we blindly cherish,
  Clad in borrowed tints from Fancy's mines.

All the shining, glittering, worthless splendour--
  All the brilliance of the earthly toy
That we deck with careful hands and tender,
  Is not gold, but dross and foul alloy.

Earth-born idols, lovely but in seeming,
  Flitting round us in the moonlight hours
On Love's holy shrine we place them dreaming,
  "Though all else may leave us, _this_ is ours!"

Oh! like meteor-flashings gleaming only
  Through the far-off vapours, dense and dark,
Disappearing, leaves, misled and lonely
  'Mid the angry waves, the storm-beat bark.

So our earthly idols, vain, deceiving,
  Come with promise fair for future years;
Fill us with false hopes, forsake us, leaving
  Nought but memory's torture, gloom and tears.

Oh! may we, their many tempting scorning
  From earth's sceptres lift our yearning sigh
To fadeless flowers the heavenly hills adorning
  That shall be ours when we have gained the high.

Not the joy whose end is gloom and sadness--
  Withering flowers that deck the earthly sod
Patience hath her crown--eternal gladness--
  By the living "hid with Christ in God."




IN WINTER DAYS.


Spring, and Summer-time, and Autumn
    Now are flown-
Dreamy noontides--mellow sunsets--
    Balmy twilights--all are gone!

Hope's bright visions, carmine-tinted,
    Where are they?
Dreams that mocked us in the sunlight
    Now in Winter pass'd away.

Joy shall reign when Spring returning
    Wakes the flowers
That the tender Earth has guarded
    Safely thro' the Winter hours;

But the sad winds round me sighing
    Seem to sing
She hath treasures in her bosom
    That she cannot yield in Spring!

And I weep in yearning sadness,
    Worse than vain,
For the vanished joys that Summer
    Ne'er can bring to me again!




PARTED.


Slow lingering months with swifter pace move on--
  Let this dark winter of my life be past;
This cloud athwart the sky of summer thrown--
  Whose gloom and darkness on my heart is cast.

Parted--Death's deep, dark river rolls between;
  Those talks and rambled when the day was done
And now among the things that once have been,
  And I am left in sadness here alone!

Parted! Oh, me, he is for ever gone!
  How hopeless _now_ the sunset's golden ray;
How far off seem those joys we both have known,
  How cheerless look the paths we used to stray!

Just when the autumn days grew short and chill,
  When all its sunny hours seemed past and o'er,
And moaning winds swept wildly o'er the hill,
  Like some sere leaf he fell, to rise no more.

The spring shall come, and leaves grow green again,
  And vernal beauty to the earth return;
Sunshine and flowers shall deck the hill and plane,
  And birds awake with song to greet the morn.

But he has flown far from our wintry sphere,
  Where fadeless summer glads the spring-bright clime;
Not where the tempest clouds spread grief and fear,
 But safely moored beyond the waves of time!

Mine is the weeping--his the blissful change;
  Mine is the waiting--his the sighed-for peace;
Mine through these dreary, lingering years to range,
  until I find a land where partings cease.




RETROSPECTIVE.


I'm free from the city's noises now,
  And the city cares that bound me;
I chase their shadows off my brow,
  'Mid the rural scenes around me.

And alone in the shadowy evening light,
  In the deepening gloom and sadness,
I roam the paths of past delight
  Of youth's wild dream of gladness.

I see the panorama vast
  That to these eyes is giving
The joyous scenes of that dead past
  Still in my bosom living.

I call those thoughts and memories back
  That stern-faced Toil has banished,
And wander o'er the beaten track
  Of happy days long vanished.

The friends of youth for whom I sigh--
  The true and tender-hearted;
The happiness of days gone by,
 The pleasures long departed:

I see them all again to-night,
  They seem to come and linger
Like pictures traced in truest light
  By Memory's artist finger.

Those happy times, to me how dear!
  Well loved, yet lost for ever;
Those forms that I can fancy near,
  Can they return? Ah, never!

Grim Time's dark shadow of decay
  Falls on our hopes when brightest;
A cloud may dim our sky of May
  When happy hearts beat lightest.

When golden sunbeams softly fall
  In light on shrub and flower,
E'en then a storm to blight them all
  May in the distance lour!

But still when evening's shadowy light
  Steals round in gloom and sadness,
I'll feel a thrill of old delight,
  Of youth's wild dream of gladness!




DUNLUCE.


In concert grand the tuneful waves
  Break wildly on the foam-girt shore,
And through a thousand secret caves
  The shrill wind-voices loudly roar.
    Now are the harps of the Ocean waking,
    'Mid the howling winds and the billows breaking!

The mermaid leaves her ocean home
  To sing her love-songs, soft and tender;
The moonlight gilds the breaker's foam,
  And bathes the sea in silvery splendour;
    And the splashing spray on the White Rocks falling
    Sounds like lonely voices of Ocean calling.

Oh, lone Dunluce! looking o'er the sea,
  With tower and keep so grim and hoary,
Do the waves' wild revels recall to thee
  The days of your long-departed glory--
    When the wan, weird moonlight is round thee streaming,
    With the stars' pale light on your gray walls beaming?

Oh, stern old relic of bygone ages!
  Oh, stout old scorner of Time's rude hand!
Your name shall live in our history's pages
  While a poet sings in our native land;
    And your fame shall be heard in old Erin's story
    When we tell of the days of her vanished glory.

Ah! many a tale not in history's keeping,
  Of lordly chieftain and lady fair,
in the gloom of Oblivion now are sleeping,
  And can never be told in the twilight there;
    Who repose unremembered in graves unknown,
    Where the storms of past ages have o'er them blown.

I can almost fancy the winds are singing
  Those stories forgotten by all but thee,
And the rolling waves in their turn are bringing
  Back mem'ries of olden chivalry;
    Wild minstrels around thee in darkness stealing
    The scenes of the long ago revealing

I hear in the distance their harp-notes swelling
  In a dirge-like wail o'er the moaning sea,
And I think that their mournful strains are telling
  A thousand tales of the past to me.
    The echoing caves to their songs replying,
    As each fitful sound on the gale is dying.

Wild minstrels of Nature, whose poet-fire
  Rings out through her solitudes, wild and grand.
Let your spirit rest on my feeble lyre,
  And I'll chain it there with a willing hand.
    And when Night hangs her myriad star-lamps shine
    Let me blend her notes with your wondrous chord.




THOUGHTS AT EVENTIDE.


"I hold it true, with one who sings
 To one clear lute of divers tunes.
 That men may rise on stepping-stones
Of their dead selves to higher things."--TENNYSON

Lo! the sunset fire is burning in the roseate sky of evening
  Where grand in dying glory sinks the god of day to rest
And wide o'er the dewy meadows lie the golden lights and
     shadows,
  Like gleams that come to cheer us from the regions the
     blest!
Slow the fiery orb is sinking down below the purple
     mountains;
  Still the splendour of his radiance lingers round us for a
     while;
And the peaceful country bowers, and the stately run towers,
  Are rejoicing in the beauty of the glad, refulgent smiles.

From the trees and from the meadows the bird-song wild and
     tender,
  In sweet and mingled chorus, like vesper songs, arise
With the evening zephyrs blending, on their airy wings
     ascending,
  Like anthems of thanksgiving they are ringing thro' the
     skies.

The children's happy voices from the village playground
     stealing,
  With the cadence of their laughter, come floating through
     the air;
And the face of Nature smiling, every thought of care
     beguiling,
  Soothes my restless soul to musing in the twilight calm and
     fair,--

Keeps my soul in peaceful musing, 'mid the tranquil summer
     gloaming,
  When the cares of day are ended, and its labours all are
     done;
When the Dove of Peace is stealing o'er the valleys, bringing
     healing
  On her white wings to the weary, with the rest that they
     have won.

Here let me sit and ponder on life's long and varied story,
  On the things that are, and have been, and the times that
     are to be;
Of the past and of the present, of the darksome days and
     pleasant,
  And the future years, still hidden, that are kept in store
     for me.

But, the past--should I deplore it? All my longing can't
     restore it;
  Still it lies beyond my reaching, to come back to me no
     more;
It is right to keep and cherish, or to let its memory perish,
  Like a dream to be forgotten, when the hours of sleep are
     o'er?

Like a dream to be forgotten, like a phantom, a delusion
 That but lured away our moments with its subtle, witching
     powers,
Till it sinks our souls in sadness with the dreams of
     gladness,
  And the thoughts of vanished pleasures that can ne'er again
     be ours.

Let me cease this idle longing for the days that have
     departed,
  It is worse than useless wishing for a light grown dim and
     dead:
For joy so lovely seeming, when we clasp them in our
     dreaming,
  And know we must awaken and remember all is fled.

Let past failures be our beacon through the breakers spread
     around us,
  To show where danger meets us on life's rough and troubled
     main--
Where earth's joys like billows meeting, on the rock's care
     are beating,
  And we see them dashed and shattered where they can not
     rise again.

Let me wake, and cease repining; let me learn life's sternest
     lesson--
  Joys when born of earth are earthy, and must therefore fade
     and die;
Let me feel new knowledge glowing, on my opening eye
     bestowing
  The experience that will lead me to a fairer, by-and-by.

'Tis our past has made our present, so our present makes our
     future,
  Let us work, and cease of wishing--let us _do_, not
     _dream_ through life;
Ever mindful, never straying, with our earnest hearts still
     praying
  For the guerdon of the worker, and the winner in the
     strife.




LIFE.


Life is a day. In its morning bright
We frolic and scamper, free and light.
'Tis a happy path that we have to run,
The way is pleasant when new-begun.
The sky of our youth is clear and blue,
With no clouds to impede our raptured view;
There's a prize to win in its golden hours--
Let us work with zeal, and that prize is ours.
There's a laurel crown for the victor's brow,
And a time to win it--that time is now!
Now, when our hearts are young and gay,
Ere the light of our morning fades away.
It is hard to work 'neath the noon-day sun,
But the rest shall be sweet when the work is done;
It is hard to struggle and fight alone,
But the prize we win shall be all our own.

The noontide fades, and the evening grey
Overtakes us soon on our weary way;
But our day of working will soon be o'er,
And the rest is nearer us than before.

Life is a night, to watch and pray
For the coming dawn of a brighter day;
But our lamps are trimmed--we have nought to fear,
The darkness is fleeting--the dawn is near.

And now we see through a darkened glass
The shadowy scenes of the future pass;
But then, in a morn of unclouded light,
It shall break in glory upon our sight.
The Master shall come when the night is o'er,
And bid us to work and watch no more;
He shall tell His servants their work is done,
And bestow the crown they have nobly won!




A SUMMER SONG.


The summer flowers in regal bloom
  Make field and garden fair,
Their fragrance in the dreamy noon
  Perfumes the balmy air;
The river murmurs through the vale
  Upon its sea-bound way,
And o'er the pleasant hill and dale
  The birds sing blythe and gay,--
And river, flowers, and birds to me
Are ever bringing thoughts of Thee!

The woods at eve are cool and lone;
  And when I linger there,
There's something in the wind's soft moan
  That whispers Thou art near.
My thoughts by Fancy's chains are bound
  As by a magic spell,
And strange, sweet visions wrap me round
  While in the lonely dell,--
And rustling leaves and murmuring streams
To me are bringing sweetest dreams.

The sunset saddens in the West,
  The stars peep through the skies;
The weary day is hush'd to rest
  By gentlest zephyr sighs;
The wavelets break upon the shore.
  The moon shines o'er the sea,
The sandy beech I wander o'er
  Alone to dream of Thee,--
And stars, and sky, and moonlit sea,
All, all are bringing thoughts of Thee!




EVENING.


Red shines the sunset in the evening sky,
And paints the cloud-ranks in rich crimson glow,
Till every varying tint in rival splendour burns,
And earth and ocean catch the gleam, and smile
In new-born glory for a time, and then,
As the enraptured gaze absorbs the scene,
It fades, and, growing dim and dimmer, dies.
It is a glimpse from worlds unseen--a light from the
     Invisible,
Foreshadowing things the brighter yet to be.
A soft wind-whisper wanders thro' the boughs,
And wakes a thousand harps in forest lands,
That all the sultry day were hushed, till now,
When the fair twilight spreads her dreamy spell:
They wake to melody so softly sweet that one might think
An angel's wing had stirr'd the varied leaves.
And swept the woodlands with ethereal song.
Now the great sea, with all its restless waves,
Seems calmer grown, as forth the stars appear,
And smile upon us from the silent skies,
Where nightly, looking down the azure depths,
Like guardian angels o'er a sinning world,
In their grand, silent eloquence, they show
The marvels of their great Creator's power.
This is the time when dreams will come, and bring
Days which have fled, and we would fain recall.
A shadow thrown across the moonlit walk--
A breeze that, sighing, lifts the woodbine leaves, and strays
In through the open lattice, may restore
The scenes that long in memory have slept.
Ah, me! stern Time can take out youth away--
Whiten our hair and mark our brows with age;
But Memory, kind Memory, that holds the past,
He cannot claim. Remembrance still is ours,
And we may grasp her magic wand and touch
The secret spring that hides our bygone years.
The murmur of a brook that flowing glides
Between its violet banks, can call a sigh
From that far time when we could roam at eve.
To hear the birds that sang the sunset down,
With wild, glad vesper-songs by Nature taught.
The earnest face and tender eyes, that beamed
With a whole world of deep, undying love,
Rises again before my tear-dimm'd sight.
Then came a time when, with slow steps, and voices low and
     sad,
They laid _her_ down to rest. Then life grew dark,
And all that I had left on earth to love
Was but a grave, beneath the churchyard trees,
Where I could sit for dreary hours and weep.
Years fly apace. The wildest grief grows calm--
As storm-clouds lowering in the noonday sky,
Seem darkest when they hang above our heads--
So we most feel the stroke of sorrow when it falls;
But Hope draws near, and, pointing to the Future, whispers-
     "Wait:"
Yes, wait awhile; and for a few short years
Struggle, and fight, and bear the burden well.
The sun that sank below the purple hills,
Leaving the earth to darkness and to night,
Shall bring new glory to the morning sky.
Death's night of gloom shall have its morn of bliss,
And we shall find within the golden gates
Our flowers that withered, in eternal bloom!




TO "W. C. T."


Oh, sad one, who wails for thy love that is slighted
  Left lone and forsaken, all joy fled away;
Thy day-dream of beauty o'ershadowed and blighted,
  Thy sky once so rosy now clouded and gray.
Thine idol was earthly, and earth-like must perish;
  The casket was doubtlessly faultless and fair;
But 'tis only the soul-gem the poet can cherish,
  And blend with, his dreamings in gladness or care.

The glory that shone like the East in the morning
  On the radiant ideal was sweet to behold;
But, alas! 'twas thy fancy had wrought its adorning,
  And without it the real is worthless and cold.
And the poet's high soul ever craves for that beauty
  That must be arrayed in the white robe of Truth;
The Love, Heaven-born, that walks hand-clasped with Duty,
  That thro' life's changing years keeps the heart in its
    youth.

Then shall Truth at the shrine of the False linger pining
  No! Nature rebels, and Hope whispers, Arise!
There are regions unknown in the glad sunlight shining--
  In the paths of thy calling where happiness lies!
Oh, linger not weeping, in gloom and in sadness,
  The days that are coming thy healing shall bring;
And a love, brighter far, horn of Truth and of Gladness,
  Shall Phoenix-like up from the dead ashes spring!




SUMMER LONGINGS.


There's a sound of woe in the forest lands,
  A wailing sigh in the wild wind's breath;
The woods are waving their naked hands
  As they mourn fair Summer's death.

Through the leafless groves in the twilight hours
  Come gusts of music that sink and swell,
And I cry, "Come back, with your light and flowers,
  Fair Queen of the year that I love so well!"

Come back to gladden the earth again,
  For the woods are grim in their winter woe,
There's a dreary look on the lonely plain,
  And the hills and mountains are crowned with snow.

And I fancy I hear from the distant hills
  A blast of wind sweeping o'er the lea,
From the gray old hawthorns and foam-clad rills,
  To tell a word of their woe to me.

Oh, Summer so lovely, lost and dead,
  I miss your sunshine and balmy hours,
And blissful calms, when the noontide shed
  Its dreamy radiance on fields and flowers!

I miss your bird-songs that called me up
  To welcome the blush of the golden morn,
When the dew-pearls gleamed in the harebell's cup,
  And the lark soared high o'er the fields of corn.

I miss the hush of the quiet eves,
  When the gloaming stole through the silent wood,
And the low-toned zephyrs that stirred the leaves
  Were like elfin harps in the solitude.

Oh! Spring, return with your tender buds,
  And thousand splendours to deck the earth;
Come back and reign in the grand old woods,
  And Winter shall fly at your welcome birth.

Come back, and wide o'er the hills and vales,
  The birds your welcome in glee shall sing;
And their songs shall float on the gentle gales
  Till the earth in gladness and joy shall ring!




MY TREASURES.


Yes, I have treasures--not of gold or silver,
  Yet they are hoarded with a miser's care;
Cherished and loved more tenderly and fondly
  Than purest gems, or jewels rich and rare.

Only a scrap of paper, old and faded,
  Only some withered rose-leaves, sere and dry;
And one long tress of hair, all bright and golden,
  Dear relics of the happy days gone by.

Well I remember that long, dreamy summer,
  With all its sunshine and its cloudless days;
The pleasant rambles through the lanes at even,
  When earth was glowing in the sunset rays.

And when the Autumn, in his mellow splendour,
  Clothed field and forest in autumnal dyes,
'Twas sweet to wander in the still, weird twilight,
  And watch the moon ascend the eastern skies.

Oh! blissful hours! ah, vows so softly spoken,
  Ye held a subtle witchery for me;
I dreamed a heart of love and trust unbroken
  Was mine--and mine alone--through time to be.

Alas! not mine that blossom that I cherished,
  And hoped would bloom through all the coming years;
Death's chill hand fell upon it, and it perished,
  And left with me but memory and tears!

Oh, woods! though Autumn left you bare and leafless,
  Spring has returned, and brought you life and mirth;
But the dead dream of youth's bright golden morning
  Of love and beauty, can it wake to birth?

It cannot be; the times that have departed,
  The days of gladness, can return no more;
And I am lonely left and broken-hearted,
  Like some sad exile on a foreign shore,--

Who, gazing backwards, through the years can picture
  A time when love and friendship were his own;
Then turning to the present, lone and cheerless,
  Finds all his happiness in life is gone.

So, now, life's evening shadows, grim and dreary,
  In deepest gloom, are round my pathway shed;
The beams of hope are growing dim and weary,
  And all that once was bright is cold and dead!

Oh, long-lost love! the gloomy years are fleeting,
  Through life's dark dream they ever hurry fast;
Great waves upon the brink of Time they're meeting,
  And, mingling, rush to form the shadowy Past!




THE GIFTED.


Say, are the gifted born the sons of woe--
The favoured ones on whom kind Heaven hath smiled,
And dowered so richly with its priceless store;
The lords of earth, the monarchs of the soil--
Men who are bless'd with minds that angels have:
Are these to bear the jibe of vulgar tongues,
To feel the taunts fell Envy madly hurls,
Or brook the scorn gaunt Jealousy may show?
To them such things are but the angry blast
That mars the bosom of the placid lake,
Which smiles in dimpling ripples at its wrath!
They _have_ their "world of flower, and song, and gem,"
The land of beauty where the poet dwells--
His green Parnassus where the muses reign:
_Not_ hidden nor unseen; oh! look abroad,
And tell me if thine eye no beauty sees.
The solemn grandeur of the Autumn woods,
Bright-crimsoned with the dying Summer's blood;
The mountains in their hoary splendour drest,
The valleys with their fields of golden grain,
The glens deep hidden, where a thousand flowers
In modest beauty shun the noontide glare;
The wild-birds' song, the murmur of the streams
That through their heathery banks of fragrance glide.
All these are theirs--their solace, their delight;
Each with its charm of mystic beauty fraught;
The gleams that pierce the clouds of common life,
And let the light of Heaven's own sunshine in!
They have their dreams in twilight's shadowy hour,
When they can strike their golden lyre, and feel
The holy joy the poet calls his own.
And the soft breeze that sings among the boughs
In numbers like the famed AEolian harp
Seems blending with its tones, till earthly cares
Melt, as beneath the syren's spell, and die!

Thus lightly o'er the waves his bark goes on,
Hope for a beacon shining bright above.
While firmly at the helm stands fair Content
To steer him safely till he reach the shore.
And then, when Death's grim portals open wide,
And he has reached the Land he dreamed and sung,
Oh! bliss to wander o'er the streets of gold,
_His_ harp-notes mingling with the choirs of Heaven!
His hopes all realized, "faith lost in sight"--
His life a poem which God Himself hath read!




MORNING.


The gladsome Morning looked across the hills,
Clad in his richly tinted robes; the opal dawn,
Faint blushing in the East, grew clear and brighter,
Till the resplendent sunrise decked the sky.
It shone upon the woods--the birds awoke
To chant their welcome to the god of day.
It shone upon the meadows, and the flowers
Ope'd their eyes, where the bright dew-tears glistened
As they had wept thro' the long hours of night,
Heedless of how the star-beams smiled and played;
And the pale, tender moon, with pitying ray,
Looked down upon their lowly, drooping heads,
Now lifted gladly to the morning light,
Till the warm sunshine kissed their tears away.
And clouds of fragrance from their beds arose,
That amorous zephyrs, as they wandered by,
Wafted, like sweetest incense, to the sky!
It shone upon the rivers, as they flowed
Through fertile meadow-lands, so rich in loveliness;
Sweet streams, that, rippling on in restful song,
Took up a tone more joyous in that hour;
And whispering leaves, and birds that, far and near,
From grove and hedgerow, warbling clear and sweet
In blending music, trembled in the air--
Like matin hymns, that on Creation's wings
Were upwards borne to the Creator's Throne!




ANOTHER YEAR.


Another year has well nigh passed,
  With all its smiles and tears,
And joys and sorrows that are cast
In Time's great stream, whose waters vast
Roll to the ocean of the Past,
  Bearing our hopes and fears,
Where 'neath its waves they mingle fast
  With all our vanished years.

Another year! a span of Time,
  That tells of lifework done;
A book, some pages dark with crime--
Some grand, and holy, and sublime;
A trumpet, telling every clime
  Of battles lost and won:
A knell of woe--a joy-bell's chime,
  Hope dead, and bliss begun!

Another year! In Spring's sweet hours
  What blissful thoughts we knew!
What hopes, that came with opening flowers,
What visions, nurse in spring-wreathed bowers,
When Fancy lent her magic powers
  To trace in brilliant hue
Castles of air, and dream-built towers
  Too soon to fade from view!

Another year! and I can trace
  Footprints o'er Summer's way,
But turn to find a vacant place,
Where once I met a cherished face,
And well-loved form of youth and grace,
  Now pass'd from earth away--
This year the goal of one bright race,
  The close of one fair day.

Autumn is dead. The year is old,
  The dull November days are chill;
The bare woods dreary to behold;
The northern blast blows keen and cold,
Far sighing over waste and world,
  O'er wintry vale and hill;
And in its moan are requiems told
  For true hearts dead and still!

So must it be. Each passing year
  Still bears some joy away;
Some darling treasure, held too dear,
In trembling bliss, in hope and fear,
Which we would fancy safe and near,
  Departs, and seems to say--
"We have no lasting city here,
  Earth's life is but a day!"

But Christmas, coming round again,
  Shall bring his wonted cheer;
And Pleasure, in his jovial train,
With rosy mirth and glee shall reign,
To chase these thoughts of gloom and pain
  That haunt the dying year;
And grief-parched lips the cup shall drain
  Of "Peace and good-will here!"




WITH A SHAMROCK.


Here, in these triple leaves, oh! read from me,
  What I, for _thee_, have dreamed their mystic spell,
Faith, Hope and Love, joined hand in hand, I see,
  And this the message that they seem to tell:--

Love, for the present, and the time to he,
  Faith, that its might and truth can never die;
Hope, that beyond the future clouds and mystery
  Points to a smiling scene, and cloudless sky.




"WAITING FOR THE MAY,"


"Ah! my heart is weary waiting, waiting for the May!"
Old thoughts come back from the old time,
  Where, at even, the sunset light
Gilds wood and world, ere the glory dies,
And darkness gathers along the skies
  And the world is left in night.

Old songs float round in the gloaming,
  Sweet fragments that come and go;
They are echoes, I know, from the olden times,
Holy, as music vesper chimes,
  In the days of "Long Ago!"

And faces shine in the firelight;
  And laughter rings through the rooms;
And memories of bygone springtime eves
Come back to my lone heart that aches and grieves
  In the chill of life's winter glooms,

Then, the May of love that I longed-for
  Was hid in the future haze;
I dreamed it a land of joy unknown,
Where bliss and beauty would be my own
  Through the length of life's fair days.

So in hope for the May I waited
  As gay as the joyous hours
That sped so fast, on their lightsome wings
Thro' flowers, and sunlight, and glorious things
  That lived in youth's fairy bowers;

But the hopes I nursed in that springtime--
  Ah! me, but those times were bright!
Are withered now, and no fruit I see,
Though the blossoms were fair on every tree
  In the glow of their promise-light!

Yet, when by the grave where I buried
  Those hopes, I stand and weep,
I hear Faith say, as the storm-winds blow,--
"If in patience, and sorrow, and tears ye sow,
  The guerdon of joy ye shall reap!"




AWAKENED.


The glories of fair April's pride
  Are smiling round on every hand,
And springtide beauties, far and wide,
  As with a garment clothe the land.

In shady nooks, in lonely glades,
  In forest alleys wild flowers spring,
In budding stalls, in twilight shades,
  In lonely woods the birdies sing.

The violet's bloom on many a bank
  Is mirror'd in the waters sheen;
And 'mong the grasses long and rank
  The yellow primrose flower is seen.

In yon dim wood the trestle sings
  'Mong boughs that clasp hands overhead,
And through the air his glad song rings,
  As in that April long since dead.

The brook has still the same soft flow,
  Whose murmur filled the evening air
In those old days of long ago,
  Though I may never wander there.

I shut my eyes, and see no more
  The hurrying throng of city ways
And call to life that dream of yore,
  And feel the thrall of bygone days.

The passion'd yearning for the time,
  The glorious time that was to be,
The restless young heart's dreams sublime,
  Of all the future held for me.

Ah! fair the blossoms Hope's tree bore!
  I dreamed of Autumn's golden grain--
Oh! fatal blooms! ye brought a store
  Of deep remorse, of life-long pain!

Oh! dream of youth, I see you now
  With calmer eyes, and world-taught mind,
And know these care-lines on my brow
  My waking hour has left behind.

All false the glow that round you shone,
  Though fair as Fancy's dream-land light:--
With all your rainbow decking gone
  I view your naked wreck to-night.

I look and bless the sudden blast
  That tore my idol from its throne;
And bless the keen pain of the past--
  If pain for error could atone.

False love! bereft of all your wiles
  Dead dream whose sweetness all is o'er,
The memories of your tears or smiles
  Can touch my wakened heart no more.

I lay you in your grave to-night
  And seal the stone without a sigh,
Rejoicing that your gloom and blight
  No more can cloud my brightening sky.




"ONLY."


Only relics, yet precious and pure
  Are the dreams of the days of old,
Though they tell of wounds that no charm can cure,
  And of bright hopes, dead and cold.
    Only visions of forest ways,
    Only thoughts of happier days,
    Only the glow of Life's sunrise haze
      When the morning sun was shining.

Only, it may be, a lock of hair,
  Or a flower sere and dry;
Only a pictured face, how fair
  In the light of the times gone by!
    Only a sigh for what may not be,
    Only a yearning wish to see
    The light beyond the mystery
      That for weary souls is shining.

Only thoughts of the gladsome time
  When the world of youth was bright;
Only memories of joys sublime--
  The gleams of youth's fairy light,
    Only sweet flashes that come and go,
    Only the thrall that sets heart aglow,
    Only the spells we were wont to know
      When Fancy's rays were shining.

Only voices we hear no more,
  But the echoes haunt our ears;
Only dreams that are past and o'er
  That we mourn through the lonely years
    Only to find that the sunny gleam
    Of earth's love fades like a passing dream,
    Only to wait for that deathless beam
      That "beyond the tide" is shining.

Only the clasp of a parting hand
  On the silent rivers' shore,
As the dear one sails for the unseen Land
  And we see his face no more,--
    Only to gaze o'er the waters drear,
    Only to wait till the call we hear,
    "Come over now, for rest is near
      Where the true life light is shining."

Only the burden all must bear,
  Only earth's weight of woe;
Only to learn from each dreary care
  The patience the pure must know.
    Only this:--but what welcomes wait
    To hail us home at the pearly gate;
    Only to toil until night is late
      And awake where the Morn is shining.




FIRST PSALM.


How blessed are they who turn their steps
  From paths the wicked choose,
Who stand not in the sinners ways,
  And scorners' seats refuse.

Who take their solace and delight
  In meditation pure--
The law of God--its depth and height,
  Its wisdom, might, and power.

They, like the trees on verdant banks
  Whereby sweet rivers flow,
Shall bring forth fruit, and fadeless leaves,
  And prosperously grow.

But such is not the sinners' end--
  Like the light chaff are they,
Which when the softest winds arise,
  Are quickly swept away.

They shall not in the judgment stand,
  Nor sinners, scorning grace
Be in the congregation found
  Where righteous men find place.

The Lord himself the righteous knows--
  He marks them from their birth,
But godless ways of sinful men
  Shall perish from the earth.




HER NAME.


The purple heather on the brae
  Was all abloom; by glen and weld
The wild birds sang the live-long day,
  The corn-fields ripened into gold.

The garden blooms were wonderous fair;
  Red roses blushed in regal glow;
Carnations scented all the air,
  Pure was the lilies' virgin snow.

But fairer than the garden flowers,
  Or all the summer blooms, wean
Was she, whose smiles beguiled the hours--
  Was she, whose presence charmed the scene.

Oh! pleasant were the sylvian glades,
  Oh! sweet the hush of summer noon;
Roaming 'neath tangled green-wood shades
  We deemed _that_ twilight came too soon!

Our home-ward way lay through the wood,
  We lingered by the streamlet's side,--
False vows were made what time we stood
  There, 'neath the elms, that eventide.

I carved her name upon a tree,--
  A gnarled old ash-tree, gaunt and grey;
"The name may stay," she said to me,
  "When I, perchance, am far away!"

Swiftly the summers come and go,
  And life grows stern, and love grows cold;
Dim are the days of long ago--
  Their joys a story long since told.

But, sometimes, at the close of day,
  I dream of that dim wood, and see,
A name upon an ash-tree grey--
  'Tis all the past has left to me!




MEMORY.


  "And other days come back to me
  With recollected music."--BYRON.

How memory's boundless store is fraught
  With wonders, mystic and sublime!
Bright gleams, that oft we set at nought;
  Sweet messengers from Heaven's own clime.
The wind that stirs the boughs at eve--
  A star that glimmers in the blue
Of nights gemm'd crown, oftimes may wreathe
  A halo, strangely sweet and new.
    Round hopes and fears we used to know
    In life's young morning, long ago.

The cadence of the sighing waves
  That break in song along the shore,
The winds that sigh thro', hidden caves
  Are echoes from the days of yore.
The moonlight, stealing o'er the sea,
  So calm, above the restless tide,
Is like the light that used to be
  In many a by-gone eventide,
    As memory comes, and paints each scene,
    Of loves and joys that once have been.

We feel the power, and own the spell,
  That bid the lonely spirit stray,
In thought, to where our lost ones dwell,
  Now from our paths so far away
We say "'tis dreams that Fancy brings,"
  And go our way, forgetting still;
But on the winds are angels' wings,
  And spirit power, our souls that thrill
    With yearning for that life unseen,
    Hid far behind this mortal screen.

For Memory still with subtle art
  Unfolds the bygone to our eyes,
And still the lonely, longing heart
  Would soar beyond earth's mysteries,
Till wearied grown of useless tears,
  And longing for the olden days,
We turn to see the future years
  Lie smiling 'neath hope's rosy haze,
    And view the past with hopeful love,
    Made sure our life is "hid above."--

Hid far away from mortal ken,--
  These wonderous gleams that round us stray,
These meteors, 'mong the haunts of men,
  These holy thoughts, that day by day,
Shine in their light of Heavenly hue
  O'er chequered paths of work and love,
Refreshing as the tender dew,
  Are stray-beams from the light above
    Men call it Memory, but we know
    'Tis Heaven's warm light on earth's cold snow!


TWILIGHT.


Twilight's shades are round me creeping,
  Nature dons her robe of gray;
Through the blue the stars are peeping,
  Sunset's last, faint streaks decay.

Visions come of bygone hours,
  Ere these eyes were dimmed by tears,
Youth's bright scenes unwreathed with flowers
  Dimly seen through mist of years.

Softly through the summer gloaming
  Steals this picture of the past;
Through the wood the breeze is roaming
  Moon beams round their shadows cast.

By the murmuring, flowing river,
  Sits a maiden waiting there;
Graven on my heart forever
  Is that form of beauty rare!

Vows are plighted, love is given,
  Trusting love without alloy,
And the calm, blue, starry heaven
  Whispers but of truth and joy!

By the murmuring, flowing river,
  Where the shore the waters lave,
Now the moon beams fall and quiver
  On a green and lonely grave!

Token sad of fond love slighted,
  Of a rose cut down in bloom,
Of a fair young blossom blighted
  All too lovely for the tomb.

Softly through the summer gloaming
  Sighs the breeze a requiem low,
And my sad heart, ever moaning
  Answers to its tones of woe!




TOLD IN THE TWILIGHT.


We left our ink-stained office-desk,
  Two, young in years, yet old in care;
We laid aside our world-face mask,
We laid aside our daily task
  To breathe the country air.

We laid aside our musty books,
  Grown almost hateful to our eyes;
We longed to roam the country nooks,
We longed to hear the murmuring brooks,
  And see the sunny skies.

We longed to hear the birds again,
  Minstrels that through the woodlands stray;
We longed to hear the reaper's strain
Sung in the fields of golden grain
  On the bright harvest day.

Oh! pleasant were the breezy downs!
  Oh! fair the lanes and fields;
Far from the weary noise of towns,
We half-forgot grim Care's dark frowns,
  'Mong peace such quiet yields.

He said, The busy city's street
  The path of labour and of woe,
The anxious faces, hurrying feet,
The things that every day I meet,
  Are what I hate to know!

Oh! might I bathe in Lethe's stream,
  Forget the happy days gone by,
And know this life a fleeting dream,
And look on every passing scene
  As with a stranger's eye.

To walk along this quiet lane,
  To feel this evening calm,
Ah! how it soothes my tired brain
With peace I thought that ne'er again
  Would bless me with its balm.

'Twas in a lane like this, at even
  My life's peace came to me;
A great, sweet joy to me was given,
A pure, true love, whose hope has riven
  Earth's gloom and mystery.

A maiden, lovely as the glow
  Of Fancy's soul-land light,
Once vowed to me for weal and woe,
As calm or storm would come or go,
  Her love was 'mine by right!'

Twas Spring-time then, ere Autumn's blast
  Sighed with its dreary moan,
To shake the brown leaves falling fast,
Her sweet life-tale was told and past,
  And I was left alone!

'Twas hard to think that _she_ was dead,
  'Twas hard to bear such pain;
'Twas hard to feel all brightness fled,
'Twas hard to count bright days swift sped
  That could not come again!

I sought her grave at eve, alone,
  And there before me lay
Her tomb, a lily carved on stone,
Meet emblem of my darling one
  So early called away.

And, 'neath the lily, words so sweet,
  In dreams they haunt my rest;
Oft at their sound I turn to weep
'He giveth His beloved sleep.'
  Oh! portion purest, best!

Sleep to the weary body, worn,
  On earth, with pain and care,
To meet the ransomed soul, new-born,
On the Great Resurrection Morn,
  In God-like beauty fair.

There, at her grave, I bade farewell
  To all my heart loved best;
I left our home, I could not dwell
"Mong scenes our love had marked so well,
  I felt Grief's wild unrest."

This is my story told to you--
  My holiest dream of life;
The blest home-love that once I knew
When she, so good, so fair, so true,
  I called my own--my wife!

My sunshine faded when she died,
  Such joy I might not know;
God called her early from my side,
And when I lost my gentle bride
  The world seemed full of woe!

He knew 'twas best--my stubborn heart
  Had need of chastening pain;
To bow beneath the rod's keen smart,
To learn, by grief, the better part,
  To feel such loss is gain.

And now no earthly idol smiles,
  No pleasant passions lure;
No fleeting phantom now beguiles
My soul from heaven with tempting wiles,
  My hope is fixed and sure.

She waits for me--the swift year's flight
  I count like miser's gold;
I keep the "watches of the night,"
I wait until the morning light
  Its glories snail unfold.




SUNSET.


A burning flood of glory blazing far along the West,
And clouds on clouds aglowing towering o'er the mountains'
     crest
Till the shining, burnished columns and the ranks of crimson
     vie
In a living trail of splendour, lighting all the evening sky.

The grand October sunset burns above the mountains' brow,
Whose grey old heads shine redly, light-kissed and ruddy now;
There the sunshine loves to linger in a parting glow of
     light,
Ere Day his throne resigneth to the dusky reign of Night.

But low and lower sinking, the sun goes down the West
And the dazzling beams are fading along the Ocean's breast
Till, pale and paler growing, the grandeur dies away,
And the wild waves and the breezes seem wailing for the Day!

For the fair Day, that has vanished--the brightness that is
     fled,
And for all the sunny hours that are passed away and dead,
The rosy flush of sunrise, the gladsome time of morn,
And bird-songs sweet, that far and near told when the Day was
     born!

The tranquil hush of noontide, the mellow evening hours
But ah! the Day's departure left desolate the bowers,
And woodland haunts, and flowery dells, and mountain streams
    and glades
Are lonely left in deepening gloom, and mystic twilight
    shades!

But through the Night's grim darkness the star-lamps bright
    shall burn,
'Till the lone Earth, cheered and hopeful, shall wait for
    Day's return,
And gaze with wistful longing, till the dawn the far East
    hills,
And the sun in regal beauty smile o'er the grand old hills.

Then life and light and brightness shall be her own again,
And in the new-found gladness she'll forget the night of pain
Forget the hours of darkness when deep in gloom she lay,
And her weeping-time of sadness be "as waters that pass
    away!"

Thus, this dreary night of sorrow through which we wander
    here
Be only transient darkness the long bright Day is near,
Whose light of peace and glory the ransomed spirit fills,
As it hails the dawn eternal upon the Heavenly Hills!




"CONSIDER THE LILIES."


Not gold nor diamond flash of dazzling brightness,
No costly thing of earth Thou givest for thought;
But these sweet simple flowers, beside whose whiteness
The great king's glory all would seem as nought.

Thou knewest how soon must fade all earth's poor splendour,
Worthless its wealth to Thine all-seeing eye;
The short-lived glimmer of its pomp and grandeur
Fleeting and transient only born to die.

Thou would'st not point our love to earth's frail treasure,
But to these lilies, beautiful and pure;
They toil nor spin not, yet their life's full measure
Thou metest, and their day is kept secure.

Oh, lilies! well I love your snowy pureness!
  That once the Master deigned while here to trace,
Pledges of His dear love, whose truth and serene
  Are faintly shadowed in your beauty's grace.

Meek teachers! could I learn that lesson given!
  If God so clothe the grass with beauty rare,
Shall He not guide us on our way to heaven,
  And guard our pathway till we enter there?

Oh give me, Lord, a soul of lily whiteness,
  Washed in the blood that Thou hast shed for me,
Thy Spirit's light to pierce earth's gloom with brightness
  And show the way thro' mist and cloud to Thee

Give me a heart whose treasure is in heaven,
  Not for to-morrow feeling anxious thought;
Even as my day, so shall my strength be given,
  And grace sufficient--can I want for aught?

Oh, give me faith, that on Thy love relying,
  From doubt's dark thrall I may be ever free;
And clothe me, Lord, that in the hour of dying,
  Thy righteousness, blest robe, may cover me!

Thus may I walk, by Thee, my Guide, befriended,
  'Joyous with joy that knows no sad decay;
That when earth's sun has set her brief day ended
  My morn may break and shine to "perfect day'"




SONGS OF THE SEA.


"My soul is full of longing
For the secret of the sea,
And the heart of the great ocean
Sends a restless pulse through me."--LONGFELLOW

In the grey light of the morning, ere the sun has lit the sky
When the winds rave loud and wildly, to the angry waters
How the mighty, foaming billows thunder forth, in ceaseless
     roar,
Songs majestic, wild with anguish, woeful waitings evermore.
In the dawn light, in the gloaming, beating, breaking, o'er
     and o'er,
Telling out the ocean stories, to the wide, encircling shore;
And I listen, till the legends of the past, a shadowy host,
Seem to gather round, and people storied Antrim's rock-bound
     coast.

Where the grandeur of the Causeway smiles in scorn at Art's
     weak hand,
Seem the wild waves ever singing of the high schemes Nature
     plann'd,
When she hurled the giant columns, by some mighty earthquake
     shock,
Till they stand, huge pillar-wonders, by the paved,
     mysterious rock;
And the dark caves, weird and frowning, echoing the sea's
     wild strife,
Seem to hold some spell unearthly, of the ocean's secret
     life.

Where th'Atlantic rolls sublimely, lashing round Port
     Ballintrae,
Language cannot paint the grandeur of the waves, in awful
     play!
Beating, breaking, wildly seething, whilst in restless,
     fitful roar,
Deep to far-off deep is calling, answering round from shore
     to shore.
And the spirit of the ocean seems to fill its heaving breast
With ten thousand prison'd longings, wailing out in wild
     unrest.

Softening down to calmer music, round the White Rocks and the
     caves,
With a tender, nameless pathos, softly sing the curling waves
To the battlements and turrets, and the old towers, grim and
     hoary.
Where the stern Macquillan chieftains reigned in once
     unconquered glory.
There Dunluce, in lonely grandeur, frowns in wild, and
     deathless pride,
Sentinel of bygone ages, Time-tried warder by the tide.

Grey Dunluce, in concert blending, winds, and waves, and
     sounding sea,
Seem to sing a dirge of sorrow for the glory fled from thee,
Rolling onward to the Skerries, wailing far in requiem moan
Till they catch the surf's bold thunder round toe rock at
     Innishone,
Where the foam-girt shore re-echoes with the burthen of the
     song,
And the angry dashing billows wide and far the cry prolong.

When the moonlight, pale and faintly, gleams on Malin Head's
     blue crest,
And its silvery pathway shimmers far across the ocean's
     breast;
When the yeasty breakers glisten softly in the shadowy light,
When the rocks seem mystic castles, looming grimly thro' the
     night;
Then the solemn songs of Ocean, fraught with precious, new-
     found lore
Bring for Fancy unknown treasure, priceless gems for
     Thought's great store!

Grand old Ocean! how my spirit longs to catch thy melody
Do thine heart's great pulses quicken with a secret life, oh,
     Sea?
Far adown the blue waves, hidden by the hearings of your
     breast,
Is there soul to tune your singing, to its ceaseless, wild
     unrest?
Oh! thou dread and wondrous ocean, tell these mystic songs to
     me
For their cadence, grand and changeful, haunts my path with
     mystery.




THE MOONLIGHT.


Silvery moonlight, clear and bright,
Shining down on our earth to-night,
Soft as the touch of an angels' wing,
Tender, beautiful, holy thing!

Seeking the glen where the cool waters flow--
Lighting the bank where the violets grow;
Gilding the crest of the foamy rill;
Falling in silence upon the hill;
Piercing the depths of the forest glade,
Glancing down thro' the leafy shade,
Till the loneliest haunts of the wild wood seem
To rejoice in the light of thy radiant beam!

Glistening out on the trackless deep,
Where the spirits of ocean their revels keep;
Lighting the path over the billows' foam,
As the mermaid glides from her gem-built home,
And the peri's song o'er the heaving sea
Sounds in fitful, plaintive melody!

Pouring down on the mountain pass,
Where, tripping light o'er the dewy grass,
The fairies join in their wild, weird dance,
And the mystic forms thro' the moonbeams glance,
While far and wide on the wind is borne
Through answering echoes, the elfin horn.

Flooding with glory the prairie's breast,
Till, all transformed, in the radiance drest,
The shanty, south of the poplar wood,
Seems a sylvian lodge in the solitude;
And the settler dreams, with a moistened eye,
Of the moonlights and loves of the times gone by.

Gleaming fair on the city towers
Where the clocks, thro' the night, chime the passing hours,
On the city's heart that no longer beats,
With the ebb and flow of its noisy streets,
And their living pulse-throbs that come and go,
To the smile of joy, and the throb of woe!

Smiling down from a cloudless sky,
On the village homes, that all peaceful lie;
Where simple hearts, in a happier life,
Know nought of the city's cares and strife,--
The hardy sons of honest toil,
Pensioners free of their parent soil!

To hopeful hearts in the morn of youth,
The dream-land of Love, and the type of Truth,
Where the future shows 'neath its veil of light
An Eden of blissful, untold delight

In the stern, hard struggle of manhood's days
When tired feet stumble o'er life's rough ways,
And in age's twilight of shadowy gloom,
A dream of the rest that is yet to come.

Shine on, silvery moonlight, shine!
Gladden earth with your beams benign;
On restless ocean, on tranquil lake,
Through forest alleys, by fern and brake;
By quiet village, and crowded town,
By mountain, prairie, and breezy down;
O'er sights of gladness, o'er scenes of woe,
Let the tender light of thy pure beams glow,
And the weary and hopeless shall bless your light.
And the child of joy have more pure delight.




"GOODNIGHT."


"Until the day break, and the shadows flee away."
Cant. 2.17

Goodnight, beloved! see the sun descending,
  Behind the woodlands of the far, bright West,
And in the glory of the daylights ending,
  The "light at eventide" brings dreams of rest.

Goodnight, beloved! now the grey-eyed gloaming
  Glides through the valleys with an unheard tread,
And haunts the woodlands, where the wild winds moaning
  Wails o'er the leaves of Autumn, sere and dead.

Goodnight, beloved! see the pale stars peeping
  Through the blue curtain of the shadowy skies;--
The lamps the angels hold, their night-watch keeping,
  O'er souls who wait their call to Paradise!

Goodnight, beloved! a faint, lingering glory,
  Of dying daylight glows in parting smile;
Its last kiss lighting all the hill-tops hoary,
  As though the hour with brightness to beguile.

So now, I dream, a tender love-light lingers
  O'er all the bygone, in a charmed glow,--
That hides the marks of Time's relentless fingers
  And gilds the cherished dreams of long ago.

How fair it shines! but ah! the West grows dimmer,
  The crimson radiance melts to sober grey,
And so earth's dream-light fades in fitful glimmer,
  Its meteor brightness swiftly dies away.

Goodnight, beloved! for the shadows darken
  In gloom around me, and I cannot see;
Come nearer, nearer still; beloved, hearken;
  I hear a far-off voice that calls for me.

Goodnight, beloved! a new light is breaking
  As earth's light fades to brighten nevermore;
Goodnight, beloved! till that glad awaking
  When morning shines upon the other shore.




LOST.


The sunset burns on roof and spire,
  And streets with busy passers rife;
But ah! it lacks the dream-world fire,
  That once 'twas wont to call to life.

That once it kindled in the days
  Of woodland haunt and country lane,
Before I knew the city's ways,
  Before I learned that life has pain.

Oh! present, with your armed host
  Of anxious cares, barbed sharp, and keen
Fade! for the light of pleasures lost
  Shines forth from days that once have been.

A fairer sunset charms the West
  A mellower radiance fills the air;
A scene with old-time beauty drest,
  Lies stretched before me, smiling fair.

A rustic range-wall, gnarled and old,
  A wooden bridge that spans a stream;
The glory of the sunset's gold.
  The sweetness of my first love-dream!

Two hearts that meet in passion'd thrill,
  Whose perfect bliss no words can tell;
But once in life that joy we feel,
  And feeling, prize, alas! too well!

Oh! Time and Doubt! ye fill the heart
  With sepulchres of Love and Truth;
Our hopes lie dead but memory's part
  Must still be played till life shall cease.

Oh! swift years ever drifting fleet
  Adown life's current, tempest toss'd,
Roll on! till on Time's brink we meet
  And hail the life where nought is lost!




GOOD WISHES

TO ------ ON HIS MARRIAGE.


My friend, on this your wedding-day,
  Where Love and Hope unite,
To yield with Hymenal ray
  The bridal morning bright.--
    When hands are clasped
    And cups are quaffed,
When round go wishes true,
    This song of mine
    For Auld Lang Syne
I send to her and you.
  An echo of the bygone times
  To mingle with your wedding chimes!

"Good luck," on this your wedding morn,
  "God speed" for years to be;
Good wishes, of old friendship born
  For days ye both shall see.
    When in your bowers,
    Bloom promise-flowers,
Ah! ne'er may sorrow's gloom
    Bring shadow there,
    May sunlight fair
Your hearth and home illume!
  All good, all joy, all blessing true,
  I wish to your fair bride and you!

May Heaven its choicest riches send
  To bless your life's long way;
May Love its lasting beauty lend
  That age can't steal away.
    Oh! may your sky
    As swift years fly
Be cloudless, bright and fair;
    May joys' own glow
    Dispel all woe,
And chase away grim care!
  May every good that God can send
  Be yours through all your life, my friend!




"ONLY FRIENDS."


We said "good-bye" in a quiet lane,
  the gloaming, years ago;
  few were our words about "parting pain"--
we were "only friends" you know.

Good friends had we been in the dear, dead hours,
  that still in our hearts would live,
At morn we had wandered the wild-wood bowers,
  We had roamed through the lanes at eve.

We had gathered the sweets of the summer glades,
  The rose, and the violet blue;
We had talked of Love in the twilight shades,
  And of hearts that were tried and true.

But of our heart's hopes, or our own love-dreams,
  Ah! never a word said we,
For Fate had forbidden our lips such themes,
  And "friends" we could only be.

And our farewell came, like a boding gloom,
  That darkened life's morning ray,
And joy's glad glow, and Hope's tender bloom
  Died out of one heart that day.

How we thought in that hour of the bygone days,
  Of the golden summer prime,
Of the mountains wild, and the woodland ways,
  And the spell of the gloaming time!

And, it may be, the memory of whispered words
  Came o'er us with subtle power,
Awaking, unbidden, our full hearts' chords
  In the pain of that parting hour.

For our hands were clasped, and our lips once met,
  The first time, and the last;
Ah me! 'twere well could we all forget,
  Some scenes in our buried past;--

For the blue outline of the mountains high,
  The lake, and the woodland green,
The quiet lane, and the twilight sky,
  Too oft in my dreams are seen!

And still, tho' the summers are bright and fair,
  And the summer woods are gay,
To me there is something wanting there
  That has passed from my life away!




ODE TO SUMMER.


Beauteous Queen! with crown of flowers,
  On your tresses sunny sheen;
Welcome! to the "Lone-Land" bowers,
  To our prairies, wild and green!
    In your path spring flowers to meet you,
    Nature's choicest glories greet you,
    Fair Enchantress! I entreat you,
        Listen to my lay!

Smiling Summer, down the ages,
  Still your praises have been sung,
And the poets and the sages,
  Who have spoke with gifted tongue,--
    In our legends, old and hoary,
    Thrilling song, and 'trancing story,
    Live to-day in deathless glory,
        Thrill our souls anew!

Still their songs our breasts inspire,
  Still is theirs undying fame;
Theirs the untaught poet-fire,
  That I may not hope to claim;--
     Louder than the war-host dashing,
     Brighter than their bright spears clashing,
     Shine their souls, like lightning flashing
        Through their thunder-words!

Radiant Queen! Their songs combining
  Yield to thee their highest praise,
Round thy brows of beauty twining,
  Fadeless garlands of their lays;--
    Lays whose light our gloom has rifted,
    And our yearnings heavenward lifted,
    As we soar with them, the gifted,
       Far from earth away.

Queen of Beauty! Still we sing thee,
  Worthy of the poets' song;
Willing homage still we bring thee
  As the ages roll along.
    Songs of birds, and breath of flowers,
    Wind-notes, charming woodland bowers,
    Morn's fresh glories, gloaming hours,
       Yield their sweets to thee!

Now the prairie-lands are smiling
  With the wealth thy reign bestows,
Brightness golden days beguiling,
  O'er smooth sands life's river flows.
    Through the air glad sounds are ringing,
    Nature summer idylls singing,
    I, my simple off'ring bringing,
       Kneel at Summer's feet!




CHANGED.


It seems the same as it used to be, when I watched the sunset
     glow,
In the days of beauty and gladness, the times of long ago;
Like a light that is dim and far-off, for dark years, full of
     pain,
Lie, rolled between me and the beautiful past, that never can
     come again!

Yet Ireland's hills are as verdant now, and the sun, as he
     sinks to rest,
As then pours his parting glory, o'er Slieve Gallion's purple
     crest,
A glory that brightens and lingers, as though it were fain to
     stay,
Till the twilight shadows darken, and daylight dies away.

On Mullaboy the darkness looms weird on the lonely hill,
The cattle have ceased their lowing, and the song-birds'
     notes are still;
And here, in the gloom and silence, 'neath the stars and the
     quiet sky,
Old memories throng around me, of days long, long gone by.

Two scenes are ever fairest, and first in this heart of mine,
And with clearer light and brighter, 'mong the dimmer
     phantoms shine,
And perfect in light and shadow, in tracing true and grand
Are the pictures as memory paints them, with firm and master-
     hand.

The first is a cloudless moonlight, in calm and silvery
     sheen,
And the range of the Morne Mountains in the dim background is
     seen;
Beneath them the sea is rolling, all fair in the gentle
     light,
And beauty and peace are blending in the hush of the summer
     night.

I gaze, till again in fancy, I hear the waves' soft roar,
As they break in wild sweet music along Rostrevor's shore;
And a voice with their song is blending telling the old sweet
     tale,
Of a fond, true love, that through life's long years would
     never change or fail.

That picture fades before me and the second comes in view--
A walk 'neath o'er-arching beeches, with the sunlight
     glinting through
Leaves that rustle and whisper on branches that wave above,
A silent, tearful parting, the death of a deathless love!

Dead, and yet unforgotten, worn, but never estranged,
The glory and brightness of morning to the darkness of
     midnight changed!
And life is dull and dreary, and joy from earth is fled,
For the love that was light and beauty, and joy and peace, is
     dead.




SABBATH ON THE PRAIRIE.


The year's first, blushing roses,
  Were decking the prairie's breast;
And the summer garb of beauty
  Made fair the wild North-West.
It flashed in the sedgy hollows,
  And smiled in the woodland dell;
It whispered in low, soft zephyrs
  That breathed o'er the lake and fell.
How it glowed in the mystic star-shine
  Of the clear blue Northern sky;
How it crmison'd and flushed in grandeur
  In the sunset's sweet good-bye!
And gaudy birds from the South-land
  Made brilliant the poplar grove,
And plaintiff calls came sounding,
  From the haunts where the plovers rove.

With dream-notes in the gloaming
  The wind-lutes swept the boughs,--
Sweet songs of the distant stretches,
  Where the moose and bison browse.
And we lay in our camp, and listened,
  And thought of the wilds untrod;
Of the misty, lonely future,
  And the homes on the stranger sod.

And still o'er the wide, wide ocean,
  Our eager thoughts would stray,
To the homes and scenes, to the loves and hopes
  Of the youth-time, far away.
Then we slept, to dream of the morrow,
  "'Twill be Sunday at home," we said;
"But our church must be the prairie,
  With the blue sky overhead."

The Sabbath dawned in beauty,
  With a calm whose breath of peace,
Made a solemn grand cathedral
  Of the wild vast wilderness.
The woods were the soft-toned organs,
  And the winds, thro' their alleys dim,
Now raised some high, glad anthem,
  Now chanted some low, sweet hymn.

We came from our tents together,
  And stood on the lone hill-side,
To join in the songs of Nature,
  That Sabbath morning-tide.
"With one consent let all the earth,"
  Swelled on' the sunny air.
And then, how each home-sick, heart went forth
  In that strange hour of prayer!
And the text the preacher gave us
  Was, "Rejoice in the Lord always,"
Alike in the summer sunshine,
  And the gloom of winter days.
And the clouds of our gloom were banished
  Like the mists from the morning air;
We had strength for the untried future
  For God is everywhere.




AT EVENING.


Slowly along the darkening sky
  The twilight comes with stealthy tread;
Far out to west great cloud-ranks lie,
  By sunset flushed a rosy red.
Oh! shadows of the gloaming time,
  Gather, and loom, and darkly fall,
The winding path to Fancy's clime,
  Lies hidden 'neath your dusky pall.

Pent in the city, now I dream
  Of country scenes, of lanes and flowers,
Of woodland glen, and woodland stream,
  Pictures of bygone sunset hours!
Oh, bygone! mighty claims you own,
  That summon me to seek your shrine,
I hear the call and wait alone,
  Until the charmed light shall shine.

'Tis breaking! Glistening near and far
  A radiance floats, of dazzling light
Untouched by Time, or Tempest-scar
  I view my past again to-night!
Oh! fair, false hope, your fruit is pain,
  Oh, Love! when life's spring leaves were green,
Sweet, e'en in thought to see again
  Th' Elysian called "what might have been."

"What might have been," we scan it o'er
  And charmed we live the dreams in thought,
But wake to find that mist-world shore,
  Like cloudy vapor melt to nought--
The brightness fades, the sweet rays die,
  Deep darkness falls and night is come;
A wan new moon looks down the sky,
  And stars are trembling in the gloom.

Morning, and noon, and evening grey,
  And mystic twilight, all are flown;
And e'en my dreams are pass'd away,--
  Again I find myself alone!
Young love's sweet morn, when hope was nigh.
  Stern noonday toiling, which is best?
Ah! me, they all must fade and die,--
  'Tis but the end can give us rest.




IN PEACE.


The name, the age, and a sentence written
  On a marble cross o'er a grassy mound,
Where, calmly beneath sleeps the tired heart smitten,
  Cruelly pierced by a dastard wound,
At peace in the heart of the restless city.
  She slumbers well in her lowly bed,
With never a tear of love or pity
  By kindly mourner above her shed.

High birth is safely, its rank and splendor,
  Blazoned lineage, pride and show,
Scorn coward justice, who fears to tender,
  The lash to vice, in this world below,
What matter--a thousand such things have happened
  Man has been false since woman was fair;--
But say, must he stand at yon High Tribunal,
  And what account shall he render there?




TO THE SEA.


'Tis eventide and the sun is dying,
  Painting the sky in its roseate beam,
And out to sea-ward the cloud-ranks lying,
  Are crimson-bright in his parting beam;
In dazzling light o'er the waves extending,
  In burnished glow on each foamy crest,
At the golden portals of sunset ending,
  Its pathway illumines the ocean's breast.
Oh! light of the sunset, soft and tender,
  Oh! waves that shine in the rosy glow,
Oh! mountains, so grand in your hoary splendour,
  Oh! billowy ocean that heaves below!

Oh! rolling waves, that are ever beating,
  In wild, sweet music along the shore,
Tell me tales ye are still repeating,
  Sighing and moaning forever more;
In seething foam 'mong the grey rocks meeting,
  Where, rushing, ye break in doleful roar!

Sighing on in your restless roaming
  Wailing so wildly and ceaselessly;
In the morning light, or the shadowy gloaming,
  Tell me, what are thy songs, oh, sea!

Is thine the wail of a life-long sorrow,
  The hopeless crying of hope long dead;
The dearth of loneness that cannot borrow
  One beam of light from the brightness fed,
To point to the dawn of a fairer morrow
  Far away in the future spread?

But, heedless, it rolls in its wonderous splendour,
  Onward, in cadence sublime and vast;
Are these ocean-songs, in their mystic grandeur
  Requiems sung for the vanished past?
It is buried and dead, yet still unsmitten,
  It lives and blooms in one hidden spot,
Where in Memory's chamber each scene is written,
  Graven too deeply for Time to blot!

But see! o'er the waters the light grows dimmer,
  The white-winged sea-gulls to Westward fly;
Pale stars look down in a fitful glimmer
  As the crimson fades from the opal sky.
I soon shall sleep, and perchance in dreaming,
  I'll live again in the time that's fled,
And fancy the rays of its brightness beaming
  In mellow radiance around my bed
And it may be I'll dream not of bliss that's fleeting
  But of that fair life that is yet to be,
Where no cloud can arise to dim our meeting
  As I stand with _him_ by the Jasper Sea!




NOT LOST.


"Mine," saith the Lord, "these jewels bright and pearless.
  Mine, in the day when I shall count mine own!"
So He has called them, and the hearts left cheerless
  Sad and bereaved, must mourn the loved ones flown
"Mine," saith the Lord, He gave, and He has taken
  In wisdom infinite He dealt the blow;
And round our hearth their places are forsaken
  But _they_ are gathered to His fold, we know!

Home-gathered early, when the sun so brightly
  In life's fair morning tinged their curls with gold,
And o'er their snowy brows all calm and lightly--
  The joyous span of earth's brief time had roll'd.
Home-gathered early; fair to mortal seeming,
  The promises that o'er their pathway hung,
But ah! we cannot e'en in fondest dreaming
  Conceive their bliss amid the cherub throng.

Eye hath not seen, nor to man's heart is given,
  To know what to His loved one He bestows
What joys untold the ransomed band in heaven,
  Through the eternal, blissful ages knows.
And the bereavement is no hopeless sorrow,
  No lasting parting, but an ending pain;
We feel that upward, toward the glad to-morrow
  Are drawn these links of the earth-binding chain.

For well we know that these, our darlings, entered,
  Into His joy, shall be at last restored
So while our hope in perfect faith is centred
  We wait for resurrection in the Lord.




LOOKING UNTO JESUS.


Worn and wearied on earth's road
  Oft with stumbling feet I go;
Eyes that fain would look to God
  Dim and weak with sin and woe.
But when, all my guilty stains
  Rise in dread immensity,
Then I know my Saviour's pains
  Took the load of guilt from me.
    Pardoned, healed, redeemed, restored,
    Then I look to Christ, my Lord!

When the clouds of sorrow rise,
  And the light of woe is dim,
When the subtle Tempter tries
  To win back my soul to him.
Then I look to One Who said,
  "All things I have overcome;
Onward go, be not afraid
  I shall guide to yonder Home!"
    Then what evil can betide
    While I lean on Christ, my Guide?

Worn with toil of earthly strife--
  Wearied hands and heart grown faint,
Tired of all the ills of life,
  For the water brooks I pant,
Then above the world's wild din,
  I can hear "Come unto Me;
I shall heal these wounds of sin,
  Give you rest, and make you free!"
    When my doubting soul is blest
    When I look to Christ my Rest.

Journeying o'er this path of tears
  Oft my doubting heart is cold,
Far away my Home appears--
  The gates of pearl--the street of gold.
Can I ever enter there?
  All the way with danger rife,--
Then the Master's voice I hear,

"I am the Way, the Truth, the Life!
  Ah! what doubt can then dismay
  While I walk with Christ, the Way!

"Looking unto Jesus" still
  I can bid my doubting cease,
Joyful, though beset with ill,
  Fighting, yet at perfect peace--
Sorrowful, yet filled with joy,
  Tossed, yet feeling all secure;
Earth nor Hell cannot annoy
  While my peace with Him is sure!
    "Looking unto Jesus," blest!
    Soul at anchor, heart at rest!




BY THE WAVES.


A merry leap on the sunny air,
  And a gleam of tresses, golden bright;
A 'witching face that is wonderous fair,
  A creature of beauty and joy and light.

A rocky coast with the waves at play,
  Wild wandering waves that are mad with glee;
"Tell me, what do the wild waves say,
  Are their words in their music?" she asks of me.

I start and shiver, my heart grows cold,
  Aye, cold in the flush of the August sun,
Whose glory lies on the sea like gold,
  In farewell radiance, ere day is done.

The eager smile from her lips has died,
  For the pain on my face was plain to see,
And she turns to pace the sand by my side
  Watching the billows silently.

She does not know--could my darling dream,
  Of lost, dead love in her golden world,
Where the hope-flowers bloom, and the joy-lights gleam
  'Neath the rosy light of Love's flag unfurled!

Oh! girlie mine, with the true brown eyes,
  And the perfect faith in your fair to be,
Could I lead you back o'er the bridge of sighs
  That spans the gulf 'tween the past and me.

I could show you love in its full-tide swell,
  Its syren beauty its dream-world light;
Then, the gathering storm, and the deep-toned knell,
  As Love lies bleeding in clouds and night!

Would you step aside from the shining coils
  That circle to-day round your dainty feet,
Could I show you the woes without the wiles,
  In the dregs of that chalice, bitter-sweet?

Ah! no, sweet maid, you must "live and learn,"
  Though experience is bought, it cannot be sold;
And the heart joy's thrill, and the heartache's burn,
  Must needs be felt, they were never told!

So live and smile in your fair to-day
  And wear the jewel of maiden-faith;
May its diadem gleam on your brow for aye,
  And Truth with your Love walks in step with death.




IN MEMORIAM.
A. S.


Oh! land of partings, brief and sad probation--
  When all is brightest, then farewell must come!
And the lone mourner weeps in desolation,
  Earth's fairest seeping in the silent tomb.

Far from her home, where kindly hands have tendered
  As graceful tribute, to her well-loved name;
Not by chill stranger-feeling coldly rendered,
  But by the care respect and love can claim.

And still her memory shall be loved and cherished,
  By all who knew her in her sojourn here;
Like some fair flower that in the morning perished
  In spring's bright hours when skies were blue and clear

Oh' widowed mother-heart! dead e'en to hoping
  Longing to leave the life whence joy has flown.
The eager hands through earth's grim shadows groping!
  "Darling, come back to me, I am alone!"

Oh! yearning heart-cry, in deep anguish spoken,
  In sleepless midnights, or in twilight dreams!
Oh! aching pain-throb of the spirit broken,
  Soon shall these clouds be pierced by Mercy's beams.

These deep, dense clouds of anguish and repining--
  Darkness and gloom that but the present show
E'en now, behind them, in the brightness shining.
  Wait angel-bands that minister to woe.

Soon shall they come, and bring the consolation,
  When the first burst of agony is o'er,
Then when thy soul is calmed by resignation,
  Point to the meeting on the other shore:--

Where safe at home, in Christ's eternal keeping,
  Celestial joy her ransomed being fills,
She waits, when thou hast left this vale of weeping
  To greet thee on the Everlasting Hills.




CHRISTMAS.

FIFTY YEARS AGO.


Christmas! why child, can this be Christmas Eve?
  Ah, me! the years run swiftly on;
Threads in the warp of this short life we live.
  And now my chequered web is well nigh spun.

And Christmas seems not what it used to be,--
  The good old customs all are changed, I wean;
Yet memory of old times is left with me--
  The days whose brightness these dimm'd eyes have seen.

Come, Elsie, bring your stool beside my chair,
  Stir up the fire to shine with brighter glow,
And while it flickers on your sunny hair,
  I'll tell a Christmas-tale of long ago--

Full fifty years ago, when I was young,
  And this grey hair like yours was golden-bright,
When mirth and laughter dwelt on brow and tongue,
  In fleet winged hours, that sped with magic flight.

Sometimes, in waking dreams it all comes back,--
  Familiar forms move softly through the room,
Then leave me, gliding up the moonlight track,
  Wafting sweet music down the twilight gloom.

And at these times I see the home that stood,
  In the lone highland valley far away;
The snow-crowned hills, the lake, the lonely wood,
  Through which I wandered many a summer day.

And I was happy in those summers, child!--
  Life in its morning brightness knows not gloom,
The rose-tinged future-mists hide waste and wild
  As sharp thorns hide beneath the rose's bloom.

And girlhood seemed like some fair sunny day
  Without a cloud to mar the summer sky.
On pleasure's airy pinions borne away
  Too swiftly far the winged hours sped by.

Then came a glory-crown to gild the years,--
  I loved; but 'twas no fancy of the hour,
No fleeting day-dream fraught with hopes and fears,
  But Love, that ruled my soul with sovereign power.

A love that strengthened as the days went past,--
  Dearer and holier far than all beside;
An Eden-world of beauty grand and vast,
  With joys new-born, out spreading far and wide.

Seemed then mine own; and the long years to be,
  Would fill my life with happiness and light,
While this great love would shed its beams on me
  In glad refulgence making all things bright

For he--the hero of my life's romance,
  Was dear to me--ah! words can never show
That passion'd love, how every tone and glance
  Tender or cold, brought happiness or woe

But cherished hatred goads to bitter end
  And, mocking, fain would quench youth's ardent fire
We saw a shadow on our life descend--
  The full charged storm-cloud of long-gathering ire.

My father boasted his high birth and name
  And owned a pedigree that he could trace,
Back to the stern old chiefs, whose hostile fame--
  He held the pride and honor of our race.

And still when Christmas came he loved to see
  All the old customs of our sires kept up,
Huge yule-logs graced the hearth, and Christmas glee
  Rang high, 'mid merry song and festal cup.

And on that Christmas day of which I tell
  The seasons revelry was held the same;
The stately hall with guests was furnished well
  And, 'mong, the rest, was bidden Hector Graem

He drank to me--"his lady fair and bright,"
  As was the custom of the olden time,
"Your lady! never, while the sun gives light
  Shall Graem ever wed with child of mine!"

And pointing to the door with haughty mein
  My father bade him from his board begone;--
And then a curtain fell upon life's scene--
  Blackness of darkness where Hope's sun had shone

Some family-feud, in days long passed away
  Between the Graems and the MacDonnell's rose.
And still its memory in his bosom lay
  Though seeming peace was made between the foes

But ah! my child, how can I tell the rest?
  I lived; but Heaven in mercy spared the blow
Of thought and memory then, and weeks that pass'd
 Were one drear blank--I felt not then my woe.

Child, you have never loved, and cannot know
  How drear and hopeless youth itself may seem;
The long, blank loveless years to wonder through,
  With nought, save memory of a bygone dream.

But sorrow kills not, we may laugh or weep,
  Still Time by stealthy gliding steals away;
And Winter snows again lay white and deep,
  And once again they welcomed Christmas day.

I watched them with sad eyes that knew no smile,
  And a dull mind from which all hope had flown,
A listless heart that nothing could beguile
  Back to the gladness that it once had known.

The dull December twilight grey and cold,
  Fell weird and grim upon the lonely moor;
The wild wind raged o'er wintry waste and old,
  And in the storm a stranger sought our door.

He asked a shelter from the bitter night
  My father's brown cheek blanched to hear _that_ tone,
He led him forward to the yule-log's light,
  A lost--a mourned, but now a new-found son!

Oh! sweetest welcomes on the wanderer fell!
  The last of our long race--returning home;
Home to the long-tired hearts that loved him well
  No more an exile, by strange shores to roam.

"Bid me not rest" he said, "until you know,
  I have a friend who claims his welcome now,
For, but for him, the depth of Alpines snow
  Had been my grave, and you had lost your son."

"Then wherefore wait?" my mother gently said,
  "Let him come hither till I bless his name!"
And Roderick turned, and forth the stranger led
  And once again, I looked on Hector Graem.

No welcome-glow lit up the old man's eye,
  Surprise or anger seemed to hold him dumb,
My mother clasped his hand with sob and sigh,
  But to full hearts the fewest words will come

Then Hector kissed her hand with courtly grace,--
  Bowed lowly to my father, half in scorn,
"Old ills" he said "are hardest to erase
  From hearts where gratitude was never born"

But as he spoke the glistening tear drops fell
  From those old eyes, that seldom tear drops know.
"You here" he said "love breaks hates baleful spell,
  And gratitude comes forth to yield her due!"

"Let feuds and errors perish with the Past,--
  'Tis thus I lay them in a deep dug-grave'"
And, beckoning me beside him, there, at last,
  His blessing, once refused, he fondly gave!

Ah! life is very fair, and love is sweet!
  The dark sky cleared, the sun shone out again,
Earth seemed a heaven, with perfect bliss replete,
  And new-born gladness healed the sting of pain

And standing by the window hand in hand,
  Hearing the storm howl o'er the wastes of snow.
We were the happiest of the happy band
  That merry Christmas fifty years ago!




BEGINNINGS.


At dawn sweet flushes softly creep
  Along the brightening sky,
Pale watchers whom lone vigils keep
  Perceive the sign, and cry,
      The night is gone, the bright day comes,
      And gladsome light the East illumes!

Bright blossoms on the branches burst,
  Then Autumn fruits grow there;
So, dreams that sickly hope had burst
  Grown real, make life fair.
      And dreams we prize as holy things
      That haunt our path on mystic wings.

And so, across life's weary road,
  Made dark by many a woe,
We hear the tender words of God,
  "Come, follow where I go!"
      And listening to that gentle voice
      Is fixed the best and earliest choice.

First, we must pray, and watch, and wait,
  And bear the daily cross,
And, till we reach the Master's gate,
  Count earthly gain as lost,
      Then hear, "good servant, nobly done,"
      By patience hath the crown been won.




IN REPLY TO "ALONE."


It is the joyous time of June,
  And Nature glads the smiling land
Arrayed in garments gay and green
  Bestowed by nature's lavish hand.
Oh! soft the lullaby of streams
  'Neath shadow of o'er arching trees,
When all sweet, summer music seems
  To float around us on the breeze.
It greets us in the greenwood glades--
  By forest aisles and alleys lone,
Where, wandering in the twilight shades
  The poet calls the hour his own.
Perchance he dreams some minstrel hand,
  Wakes woodland harps to heavenly song,
While spirits from the golden land
  On white wings bear the notes along.

But to thine eyes the world is grim,
  And life is dark through falling tears;
Hath Hope's soft ray grown dull and dim
  And paled the brightness of your years?
I know your woe--for I have knelt
  Beside the new made, grassy mound--
The anguish of bereavement felt
  And moaned beneath the piercing wound.

Through the soft azur veil of e'en
  The stars look down with watching eyes,
Beacons to life our souls to heaven
  And tell of love beyond the skies
To tell, tho' earth is bright and fair,
  Still Heaven must be our lasting home;
A land untouched by sin and care
  Where pain and parting never come.

Not far away; scarce out of sight,
  A shadowy veil, a misty cloud,
Is roll'd between us and the light,
  From mortal eyes the bliss to shroud.

Oh, thou whose poet-mind can feel
  The magic spell of beauty's powers
Let these, His "meaner works" reveal
  That fairer life that shall be ours.
Where we shall find in fadeless bloom
  The love Time's withering blast had slain,
Restored from death and from the tomb
  To life, immortal life again.
And while we weep for earth-joys fled,
  Or sigh to feel ourselves "alone,"
While fragrant memories of the dead,
  Like perfumes round our path are strewn;
Let us not think them wholly lost;--
  These flowers that glad the wondering vision,
Slept 'neath the winter storm and frost
  Then sprung to beauty half Elysian.
Fair blossoms deck the orchard bough
  The promise-fruit of harvest hours;
Nought have we but that promise now,
  Yet faith already shows it ours.
Oh! sweet the light around our tombs,
  Where promise-buds in faith are sown;
Faith's eye descerns eternal blooms,
  In stature of God's fullness blown.
Still ours--the true and tender heart,--
  The form that trod these paths awhile;
We said "good-night" content to part
  Until the morning light shall shine.
Oh! blessed hope! Oh! promise sweet
  The harvest of the Lord is sure;
His Hand shall give the guerdon meet
  To all that to the end endure!







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Lays from the West, by M. A. Nicholl






Synopsis: The national epic of Spain, written in the twelfth
century about Rodrigo Diaz of Bivar, conqueror of Valencia, who
only died in 1099 but had already become a legend. Rendered into
vigorous English rhymed couplets of seven iambic feet in 1919.

***********

Transcription by Holly Ingraham.

***********

THE LAY OF THE CID

Translated into English Verse

by

R. Selden Rose

and

Leonard Bacon
______________________

THE CID
Lashed in the saddle, the Cid thundered out
To his last onset. With a strange disdain
The dead man looked on victory. In vain
Emir and Dervish strive against the rout.
In vain Morocco and Biserta shout,
For still before the dead man fall the slain.
Death rides for Captain of the Men of Spain,
And their dead truth shall slay the living doubt.

The soul of the great epic, like the chief,
Conquers in aftertime on fields unknown.
Men hear today the horn of Roland blown
To match the thunder of the guns of France,
And nations with a heritage of grief
Follow their dead victorious in Romance.
______________________

INTRODUCTION

The importance of the Cid as Spain's bulwark against the Moors of
the eleventh century is exceeded by his importance to his modern
countrymen as the epitome of the noble and vigorous qualities that
made Spain great. Menendez y Pelayo has called him the symbol of
Spanish nationality in virtue of the fact that in him there were
united sobriety of intention and expression, simplicity at once
noble and familiar, ingenuous and easy courtesy, imagination
rather solid than brilliant, piety that was more active than
contemplative, genuine and soberly restrained affections, deep
conjugal devotion, a clear sense of justice, loyalty to his
sovereign tempered by the courage to protest against injustice to
himself, a strange and appealing confusion of the spirit of
chivalry and plebeian rudeness, innate probity rich in vigorous
and stern sincerity, and finally a vaguely sensible delicacy of
affection that is the inheritance of strong men and clean blood.
[1]

[1] Cf. Menendez y Pelayo, Tratado de los romances viejos, I, 315.

This is the epic Cid who in the last quarter of the eleventh
century was banished by Alphonso VI of Castile, fought his way to
the Mediterranean, stormed Valencia, married his two daughters to
the Heirs of Carrion and defended his fair name in parliament and
in battle.

The poet either from ignorance or choice has disregarded the
historical significance of the campaigns of the Cid. He fails to
mention his defeat of the threatening horde of Almoravides at the
very moment when their victory over Alphonso's Castilians at
Zalaca had opened to them Spain's richest provinces, and turns the
crowning achievement of the great warrior's life into the
preliminary to a domestic event which he considered of greater
importance. We are grateful to him for his lack of accuracy, for
it illustrates how men thought about their heroes in that time.
The twelfth century Castilians would have admitted that in battle
the Cid was of less avail than their patron James, the son of
Zebedee, but they would have added that after all the saint was a
Galilean and not a Spaniard.

In order then to make the Cid not merely heroic but a national
hero he must become the possessor of attributes of greatness
beyond mere courage. The poet therefore, probably assuming that
his hearers were well aware of the Cid's prowess in arms, devoted
himself to a theme of more intimate appeal. The Cid, an exile from
Castile and flouted by his enemies at home, must vindicate
himself. The discomfiture of the Moor is not an end in itself but
the means of vindication and, be it said, of support. When he is
restored to favor, the marriage of his daughters to the Heirs of
Carrion under Alphonso's auspices is the royal acknowledgment. The
treachery of the heirs is the pretext for the Parliament of Toledo
where the Cid shall appear in all the glory of triumphant
vindication. The interest in the hecatombs of Moors and even in
the fall of Valencia is a secondary one. What really matters is
that the Cid's fair name be cleared of all stain of disloyalty and
the dona Elvira and dona Sol wed worthy husbands.

This unity of plan is consistently preserved by a rearrangement of
the true chronology of events and by the introduction of purely
traditional episodes. The shifting of historical values may be due
to the fact that when the poem was composed, about 1150, the power
of the Moor had really been broken by the conquests of Ferdinand
I, Alphonso VI, Alphonso VII and Alphonso VIII of Castile and
alphonso I, the Battler, of Aragon. The menace was no longer felt
with the keenness of an hundred years before. until the end of the
tenth century the Moors had dominated the Peninsula. The growth of
the Christian states from the heroic nucleus in northern Asturias
was confined to the territory bordering the Bay of Biscay,
Asturias, Santander, part of the province of Burgos, Leon, and
Galicia. In the East other centers of resistance had sprung up in
Navarre, Aragon and the County of Barcelona. At the beginning of
the eleventh century the tide turned. The progress of the
reconquest was due as much to the disruption of Moorish unity as
to the greater aggressiveness and closer cooeperation of the
Christian kingdoms. The end of the Caliphate of Cordova was the
signal for the rise of a great number of mutually independent
Moorish states. Sixty years later there were no less than twenty-
three of them. By the middle of the following century the
enthusiasm that had followed the first successful blows struck
against the Moor had waned, and with it the vividness of their
historical significance and order.

Let us look at the Cid for a moment as he was seen by a Latin
chronicler who confesses that the purpose of his modest narrative
was merely to preserve the memory of the Cid of history.

When Ferdinand I of Castile died under the walls of Valencia in
1065 he divided his kingdom among his five children. To Sancho he
left Castile, to Alphonso Leon, to Garcia Galicia, to dona Urraca
the city and lands of Zamora, and to dona Elvira Toro. Sancho,
like his father, soon set about uniting the scattered inheritance.
Ruy Diaz, a native of Bivar near Burgos, was his standard bearer
against Alphonso at the battle of Volpejar, aided him in the
Galician campaign and was active at the siege of Zamora, where
Sancho was treacherously slain. Alphonso, the despoiled lord of
Leon, succeeded to the throne of Castile. Ruy Diaz, now called the
Campeador (Champion) in honor of his victory over a knight of
Navarre, was sent with a force of men to collect the annual taxes
from the tributary Moorish kings of Andalusia. Mudafar of Granada,
eager to throw off the yoke of Castile, marched against the
Campeador and the loyal Motamid of Seville, and was routed at the
battle of Cabra. Garcia Ordonez who was fighting in the ranks of
Mudafar was taken prisoner. It was here probably that the Cid
acquired that tuft of Garcia's beard which he later produced with
such convincing effect at Toledo. The Cid returned to Castile
laden with booty and honors. The jealousy aroused by this exploit
and by an equally successful raid against the region about Toledo
caused the banishment of the Cid. From this time until his death
he was ceaselessly occupied in warfare against the Moors.

The way to Valencia was beset with more and greater difficulties
than those described in the poem. The events of the first years of
exile are closely associated with the moorish state of Zaragoza.
At the death of its sovereign Almoktadir bitter strife arose
between his two sons, Almutamin in Zaragoza and Alfagib in Denia.
The Cid and his followers cast their lot with the former, while
Alfagib sought in vain to maintain the balance by allying himself
with Sancho of Aragon and Berenguer of Barcelona. After a decisive
victory in which Berenguer was taken prisoner Almutamin returned
to Zaragoza with his champion, "honoring him above his own son,
his realm and all his possessions, so that he seemed almost the
lord of the kingdom." There the Cid continued to increase in
wealth and fame at the expense of Sancho of Aragon and Alfagib
until the death of Almutamin.

For a short time the Cid was restored to the good graces of
Alphonso, but a misunderstanding during some joint military
expedition brought a second decree of banishment. The Cid's
possessions were confiscated and his wife and children cast into
prison.

The Cid then went to the support of Alkaadir, king of Valencia. He
defeated the threatening Almoravides flushed with their victory
over the Castilians at Zalaca. Again he chastised Berenguer of
Barcelona. he hastened to answer a second summons from Alphonso,
this time to bear aid in operations in the region about Granada.
Suspecting that Alphonso intended treachery, he with drew from the
camp toward Valencia. With Zaragoza as his base he laid waste the
lands of Sancho and avenged himself upon Alphonso by ravaging
Calahorra and Najera.

Finally in 1092 the overthrow of Alkaadir prompted him to
interfere definitely in the affairs of Valencia. He besieged the
city closely and captured it in 1094. There he ruled, independent,
until his death in 1099.

Even the Moorish chroniclers of the twelfth century pay their
tribute to the memory of the Cid by the virulence of their hatred.
Aben Bassam wrote: "The might of this tyrant was ever growing
until its weight was felt upon the highest peaks and in the
deepest valleys, and filled with terror both noble and commoner. I
have heard men say that when his eagerness was greatest and his
ambition highest he uttered these words, 'If one Rodrigo brought
ruin upon this Peninsula, another Rodrigo shall reconquer it!' A
saying that filled the hearts of the believers with fear and
caused them to think that what they anxiously dreaded would
speedily come to pass. This man, who was the lash and scourge of
his time, was, because of his love of glory, his steadfastness of
character and his heroic valor, one of the miracles of the Lord.
Victory ever followed Rodrigo's banner--may Allay curse him--he
triumphed over the princes of the unbelievers . . . and with a
handful of men confounded and dispersed their numerous armies.'
[2] One can hardly look for strict neutrality in the verdicts of
Moorish historians, but between the one extreme of fanaticism that
led Aben Bassam elsewhere to call the Cid a robber and a Galician
dog and the other that four centuries later urged his
canonization, the true believer can readily discern the figure of
a warrior who was neither saint nor bandit.

[2] Aben Bassam, Tesoro (1109), cf. Dozy, Recherches sur
l'histoire politique et litteraire d'Espagne pendant le Moyen Age.
Leyden, 1849.

The deeds of such a man naturally appealed to popular imagination,
and it is not wonderful that there were substantial accretions
that less than a hundred years later found their way into the
Epic. Within an astonishingly short time the purely traditional
elements of the marriage of the Cid's daughters and the Parliament
at Toledo became its central theme. It is probable that such a
vital change was not entirely due to conscious art in a poet whose
distinguishing characteristic is his very unconsciousness. From
his minute familiarity with the topography of the country about
Medina and Gormaz, his affection for St. Stephen's, his utter lack
of accuracy in his description of the siege of Valencia and from
the disproportionate prominence given to such really insignificant
episodes as the sieges of Castejon and Alcocer, Pidal has inferred
that the unknown poet was himself a native of this region and that
his story of the life of the Cid is the product of local
tradition. [3] Moreover there is abundant evidence to prove that
before the composition of the poem as it has come down to us, the
compelling figure of the Cid had inspired other chants of an
heroic if not epic nature.

[3] Cid, 1, 72-73.

From this vigorous plant patriotic fervor and sympathetic
imagination caused to spring a perennial growth of popular
legends. The "General Chronicle of Alphonso the Wise," begun in
1270, reflects the national affection for the very chattels of the
Cid. it relates that Babieca passed the evening of his life in
ease and luxury and that his seed flourished in the land.

After this constantly increasing biographical material had been
developed and expanded through at least six chronicles and later
epic treatment it was taken up by the ballads with a wealth of new
episodes. Of these one of the most interesting is the Cid's duel
with the conde Lozano and his marriage to Ximena. The hounds of
Diego Lainez, the Cid's father, have seized a hare belonging to
the conde Lozano, who considers that he has been grievously
insulted thereby. Accordingly he retaliates with slurs that can
removed only ont he field of honor. Diego Lainez, too old to
fight, in order to discover which one of his three sons is worthy
of clearing the honor of the family, bites the finger of each one
successively. The two eldest utter only cries of pain, but Rodrigo
with great spirit threatens his father. He is chosen to fight the
conde Lozano and slays him. Ximena demands justice for her
father's death, and protection. Thereupon by order of King
Ferdinand the Cid and Ximena are married. Later we have Ximena's
complaints that her husband's activity in the field against the
Moors have tried her spirit sorely. There are many ballads that
treat of the arming and consecration of the Cid in newly conquered
Coimbra, of his victory over five Moorish kings who gave him the
name Cid (Master), and became his tributaries, of the testament of
Ferdinand in virtue of which the Cid is made the adviser of Sancho
and Urraca. The siege of Zamora and the death of Sancho are
fertile topics. At the accession of Alphonso the Cid forces him to
swear a solemn oath that he was not party to the murder of his
brother Sancho. Finally when the Cid is independent master of
Valencia, the Sultan of Persia, hearing of his exploits, sends him
rich presents and a magic balsam. This the Cid drinks when he is
at the point of death. It preserves his dead body with such
perfect semblance of life that, mounted on Babieca, he turns the
victory of the Moor Bucar into utter rout.

Not the least curious is the legend of the Jew who having feared
the living Cid, desired to pluck his sacred beard as he lay in
state in St. Peter's at Cardena. "This is the body of the Cid,"
said he, "so praised of all, and men say that while he lived none
plucked his beard. I would fain seize it and take it in my hand,
for since he lies here dead he shall not prevent this." The Jew
stretched forth his hand, but ere he touched that beard the Cid
laid his hand upon his sword Tizona and drew it forth from its
scabbard a handsbreadth. When the Jew beheld this he was struck
with mighty fear, and backward he fell in a swoon for terror. Now
this Jew was converted and ended his days in St. Peter's, a man of
God.

The uninitiated reader will doubtless miss in the Epic more than
one of his most fondly cherished episodes. If he prefer the Cid of
romance and fable, let him turn to the ballads and the Chronicle
of the Cid. If he would cling to the punctilious, gallant hidalgo
of the early seventeenth century, let him turn to the Cid of
Guillem de Castro, or to Corneille's paragon. Don Quixote wisely
said: "That there was a Cid there is no doubt, or Bernardo del
Carpio either; but that they did the deeds men say they did, there
is a doubt a-plenty." In the heroic heart of the Epic Cid one
finds the simple nobility that later centuries have obscured with
adornment.

______________________

THE LAY OF THE CID

CANTAR I

THE BANISHMENT OF THE CID

I.
He turned and looked upon them, and he wept very sore
As he saw the yawning gateway and the hasps wrenched off the door,
And the pegs whereon no mantle nor coat of vair there hung.
There perched no moulting goshawk, and there no falcon swung.
My lord the Cid sighed deeply such grief was in his heart
And he spake well and wisely:
"Oh Thou, in Heaven that art
Our Father and our Master, now I give thanks to Thee.
Of their wickedness my foemen have done this thing to me."

II.
Then they shook out the bridle rein further to ride afar.
They had the crow on their right hand as they issued from Bivar;
And as they entered Burgos upon their left it sped.
And the Cid shrugged his shoulders, and the Cid shook his head:
"Good tidings, Alvar Fanez. We are banished from our weal,
But on a day with honor shall we come unto Castile."

III.
Roy Diaz entered Burgos with sixty pennons strong,
And forth to look upon him did the men and women throng.
And with their wives the townsmen at the windows stood hard by,
And they wept in lamentation, their grief was risen so high.
As with one mouth, together they spake with one accord:
"God, what a noble vassal, an he had a worthy lord.

IV.
Fain had they made him welcome, but none dared do the thing
For fear of Don Alfonso, and the fury of the King.
His mandate unto Burgos came ere the evening fell.
With utmost care they brought it, and it was sealed well
'That no man to Roy Diaz give shelter now, take heed
And if one give him shelter, let him know in very deed
He shall lose his whole possession, nay! the eyes within his head
Nor shall his soul and body be found in better stead.'

Great sorrow had the Christians, and from his face they hid.
Was none dared aught to utter unto my lord the Cid.

Then the Campeador departed unto his lodging straight.
But when he was come thither, they had locked and barred the gate.
In their fear of King Alfonso had they done even so.
An the Cid forced not his entrance, neither for weal nor woe
Durst they open it unto him. Loudly his men did call.
Nothing thereto in answer said the folk within the hall.
My lord the Cid spurred onward, to the doorway did he go.
He drew his foot from the stirrup, he smote the door one blow.
Yet the door would not open, for they had barred it fast.
But a maiden of nine summers came unto him at last:

"Campeador, in happy hour thou girdedst on the sword.
'This the King's will. Yestereven came the mandate of our lord.
With utmost care they brought it, and it was sealed with care:
None to ope to you or greet you for any cause shall dare.
And if we do, we forfeit houses and lands instead.
Nay we shall lose, moreover, the eyes within the head
And, Cid, with our misfortune, naught whatever dost thou gain.
But may God with all his power support thee in thy pain."

So spake the child and turned away. Unto her home went she.
That he lacked the King's favor now well the Cid might see.
He left the door; forth onward he spurred through Burgos town.
When he had reached Saint Mary's, then he got swiftly down
He fell upon his knee and prayed with a true heart indeed:
and when the prayer was over, he mounted on the steed.
North from the gate and over the Arlanzon he went.
Here in the sand by Burgos, the Cid let pitch his tent.
Roy Diaz, who in happy hour had girded on the brand,
Since none at home would greet him, encamped there on the sand.
With a good squadron, camping as if within the wood.
They will not let him in Burgos buy any kind of food.
Provender for a single day they dared not to him sell.

V.
Good Martin Antolinez in Burgos that did dwell
To the Cid and to his henchmen much wine and bread gave o'er,
That he bought not, but brought with him--of everything good
store.

Content was the great Campeador, and his men were of good cheer.
Spake Martin Antolinez. His counsel you shall hear.
"In happy hour, Cid Campeador, most surely wast thou born.
Tonight here let us tarry, but let us flee at morn,
For someone will denounce me, that thy service I have done.
In the danger of Alfonso I certainly shall run.
Late or soon, if I 'scape with thee the King must seek me forth
For friendship's sake; if not, my wealth, a fig it is not worth.

VI.
Then said the Cid, who in good hour had girded on the steel:
"Oh Martin Antolinez, thou art a good lance and leal.
And if I live, hereafter I shall pay thee double rent,
But gone is all my silver, and all my gold is spent.
And well enough thou seest that I bring naught with me
And many things are needful for my good company.
Since by favor I win nothing by might then must I gain.
I desire by thy counsel to get ready coffers twain.
With the sand let us fill them, to lift a burden sore,
And cover them with stamped leather with nails well studded o'er.

VII.
Ruddy shall be the leather, well gilded every nail.
In my behalf do thou hasten to Vidas and Raquel.
Since in Burgos they forbade me aught to purchase, and the King
Withdraws his favor, unto them my goods I cannot bring.
They are heavy, and I must pawn them for whatso'er is right.
That Christians may not see it, let them come for them by night.
May the Creator judge it and of all the Saints the choir.
I can no more, and I do it against my own desire."

VIII.
Martin stayed not. Through Burgos he hastened forth, and came
To the Castle. Vidas and Raquel, he demanded them by name.

IX.
Raquel and Vidas sate to count their goods and profits through,
When up came Antolinez, the prudent man and true.

"How now Raquel and Vidas, am I dear unto your heart,
I would speak close." They tarried not. All three they went apart.
"Give me, Raquel and Vidas, your hands for promise sure
That you will not betray me to Christian or to Moor.
I shall make you rich forever. You shall ne'er be needy more.
When to gather in the taxes went forth the Campeador,
Many rich goods he garnered, but he only kept the best.
Therefore this accusation against him was addressed.
And now two mighty coffers full of pure gold hath he.
Why he lost the King's favor a man may lightly see.
He has left his halls and houses, his meadow and his field,
And the chests he cannot bring you lest he should stand revealed.
The Campeador those coffers will deliver to your trust.
And do you lend unto him whatsoever may be just.
Do you take the chests and keep them, but swear a great oath here
That you will not look within them for the space of all this
year."

The two took counsel:
"Something to our profit must inure
In all barter. He gained something in the country of the Moor
When he marched there, for many goods he brought with him away.
But he sleeps not unsuspected, who brings coined gold to pay.
Let the two of us together take now the coffers twain.
In some place let us put them where unseen they shall remain.

"What the lord Cid demandeth, we prithee let us hear,
And what will be our usury for the space of all this year?"

Said Martin Antolinez like a prudent man and true:
"Whatever you deem right and just the Cid desires of you.
He will ask little since his goods are left in a safe place.
But needy men on all sides beseech the Cid for grace.
For six hundred marks of money, the Cid is sore bested."

"We shall give them to him gladly," Raquel and Vidas said.

"'Tis night. The Cid is sorely pressed. So give the marks to us.
Answered Raquel and Vidas: "Men do not traffic thus.
But first they take their surety and thereafter give the fee."
Said Martin Antolinez:
"So be it as for me.
Come ye to the great Campeador for 'tis but just and fair
That we should help you with the chests, and put them in your
care,
So that neither Moor nor Christian thereof shall hear the tale."

"Therewith are we right well content," said Vidas and Raquel,
"You shall have marks six hundred when we bring the chests again."

And Martin Antolinez rode forth swiftly with the twain.
And they were glad exceeding. O'er the bridge he did not go,
But through the stream, that never a Burgalese should know
Through him thereof. And now behold the Campeador his tent.
When they therein had entered to kiss his hands they bent.
My lord the Cid smiled on them and unto them said he:

"Ha, don Raquel and Vidas, you have forgotten me!
And now must I get hence away who am banished in disgrace,
For the king from me in anger hath turned away his face.
I deem that from my chattels you shall gain somewhat of worth.
And you shall lack for nothing while you dwell upon the earth.'

A-kissing of his hands forthwith Raquel and Vidas fell.
Good Martin Antolinez had made the bargain well,
That to him on the coffers marks six hundred they should lend.
And keep them safe, moreover, till the year had made an end.
For so their word was given and sworn to him again,
If they looked ere that within them, forsworn should be the twain,
The Cid would never give them one groat of usury.

Said Martin, "Let the chests be ta'en as swiftly as may be,
Take them, Raquel and Vidas, and keep them in your care.
And we shall even go with you that the money we may bear,
For ere the first cock croweth must my lord the Cid depart."

At the loading of the coffers you had seen great joy of heart.
For they could not heave the great chests up though they were
stark and hale.
Dear was the minted metal to Vidas and Raquel;
And they would be rich forever till their two lives it were o'er

X.
The hand of my good lord the Cid, Raquel had kissed once more:
"Ha! Campeador, in happy hour thou girdedst on the brand.
Forth from Castile thou goest to the men of a strange land.
Such is become thy fortune and great thy gain shall be
Ah Cid, I kiss thine hands again--but make a gift to me
Bring me a Moorish mantle splendidly wrought and red."
"So be it. It is granted," the Cid in answer said,
"If from abroad I bring it, well doth the matter stand;
If not, take it from the coffers I leave here in your hand."

And then Raquel and Vidas bore the two chests away.
With Martin Antolinez into Burgos entered they.
And with fitting care, and caution unto their dwelling sped.
And in the midmost of the hall a plaited quilt they spread.
And a milk-white cloth of linen thereon did they unfold.
Three hundred marks of silver before them Martin told.
And forthwith Martin took them, no whit the coins he weighed.
Then other marks three hundred in gold to him they paid.
Martin had five esquires. He loaded all and one.
You shall hear what said don Martin when all this gear was done:

"Ha! don Raquel and Vidas, ye have the coffers two.
Well I deserve a guerdon, who obtained this prize for you."

XI.
Together Vidas and Raquel stepped forth apart thereon:
"Let us give him a fair present for our profit he has won.
Good Martin Antolinez in Burgos that dost dwell,
We would give thee a fair present for thou deserves well.
Therewith get breeches and a cloak and mantle rich and fine.
Thou hast earned it. For a present these thirty marks are thine.
For it is but just and honest, and, moreover, thou wilt stand
Our warrant in this bargain whereto we set our hand."

Don Martin thanked them duly and took the marks again.
He yearned to leave the dwelling and well he wished the twain.
He is gone out from Burgos. O'er the Arlanzon he went.
And him who in good hour was born he found within his tent.

The Cid arose and welcomed him, with arms held wide apart:
"Thou art come, Antolinez, good vassal that thou art!
May you live until the season when you reap some gain of me."

"Here have I come, my Campeador, with as good heed as might be.
Thou hast won marks six hundred, and thirty more have I.
Ho! order that they strike the tents and let us swiftly fly.
In San Pedro de Cardenas let us hear the cock ere day.
We shall see your prudent lady, but short shall be our stay.
And it is needful for us from the kingdom forth to wend,
For the season of our suffrance drawns onward to its end."

XII.
They spake these words and straightaway the tent upgathered then,
My lord the Cid rode swiftly with all his host of men.
And forth unto Saint Mary's the horse's head turned he,
And with his right hand crossed himself: "God, I give thanks to
thee
Heaven and Earth that rulest. And thy favor be my weal
Holy Saint Mary, for forthright must I now quit Castile.
For I look on the King with anger, and I know not if once more
I shall dwell there in my life-days. But may thy grace watch o'er
My parting, Blessed Virgin, and guard me night and day.
If thou do so and good fortune come once more in my way,
I will offer rich oblations at thine altar, and I swear
Most solemnly that I will chant a thousand masses there."

XIII.
And the lord Cid departed fondly as a good man may.
Forthwith they loosed the horses, and out they spurred away.
Said good Martin Antolinez in Burgos that did dwell:
"I would see my lady gladly and advise my people well
What they shall do hereafter. It matters not to me
Though the King take all. Ere sunrise I shall come unto thee."

XIV.
Martin went back to Burgos but my lord the Cid spurred on
To San Pedro of Cardenas as hard as horse could run,
With all his men about him who served him as is due.
And it was nigh to morning, and the cocks full oft they crew,
When at last my lord the Campeador unto San Pedro came.
God's Christian was the Abbot. Don Sancho was his name;
And he was saying matins at the breaking of the day.
With her five good dames in waiting Ximena there did pray.
They prayed unto Saint Peter and God they did implore:
"O thou who guidest all mankind, succor the Campeador."

XV.
One knocked at the doorway, and they heard the tidings then.
God wot the Abbot Sancho was the happiest of men.
With the lights and with the candles to the court they ran forth
right,
And him who in good hour was born they welcomed in delight.

"My lord Cid," quoth the Abbot, "Now God be praised of grace!
Do thou accept my welcome, since I see thee in this place."
And the Cid who in good hour was born, hereunto answered he:

"My thanks to thee, don Sancho, I am content with thee.
For myself and for my vassals provision will I make.
Since I depart to exile, these fifty marks now take.
If I may live my life-span, they shall be doubled you.
To the Abbey not a groatsworth of damage will I do.
For my lady do I give you an hundred marks again,
Herself, her dames and daughters for this year do you maintain.
I leave two daughters with you, but little girls they be.
In thine arms keep them kindly. I commend them here to thee.
Don Sancho do thou guard them, and of my wife take care.
If thou wantest yet and lackest for anything whate'er,
Look well to their provision, thee I conjure once more,
And for one mark that thou spendest the Abbey shall have four."
And with glad heart the Abbot his full assent made plain.
And lo! the Dame Ximena came with her daughters twain.
Each had her dame-in-waiting who the little maiden bore.
And Dame Ximena bent the knee before the Campeador.
And fain she was to kiss his hand, and, oh, she wept forlorn!

"A boon! A boon! my Campeador. In a good hour wert thou born.
And because of wicked slanderers art thou banished from the land.

XVI.
"Oh Campeador fair-bearded, a favor at thy hand!
Behold I kneel before thee, and thy daughters are here with me,
That have seen of days not many, for children yet they be,
And these who are my ladies to serve my need that know.
Now well do I behold it, thou art about to go.
Now from thee our lives a season must sunder and remove,
But unto us give succor for sweet Saint Mary's love."

The Cid, the nobly bearded, reached down unto the twain,
And in his arms his daughters has lifted up again,
And to his heart he pressed them, so great his love was grown,
And his tears fell fast and bitter, and sorely did he moan:
"Ximena as mine own spirit I loved thee, gentle wife;
But o'er well dost thou behold it, we must sunder in our life.
I must flee and thou behind me here in the land must stay.
Please God and sweet Saint Mary that yet upon a day
I shall give my girls in marriage with mine own hand rich and
well,
And thereafter in good fortune be suffered yet to dwell,
May they grant me, wife, much honored, to serve thee then once
more."

XVII.
A mighty feast they had prepared for the Great Campeador
The bells within San Pedro they clamor and they peal.
That my lord the Cid is banished men cry throughout Castile.
And some have left their houses, from their lands some fled away.
Of knights an hundred and fifteen were seen upon that day,
By the bridge across the Arlanzon together they came o'er.
One and all were they calling on the Cid Campeador.
And Martin Antolinez has joined him with their power.
They sought him in San Pedro, who was born in a good hour.

XVIII.
When that his host was growing, heard the great Cid of Bivar,
Swift he rode forth to meet them, for his fame would spread afar.
When they were come before him, he smiled on them again.
And one and all drew near him and to kiss his hand were fain.
My lord the Cid spake gladly: "Now to our God on high
I make my supplication that ere I come to die I
may repay your service that house and land has cost,
And return unto you double the possession that ye lost."

My lord the Cid was merry that so great his commons grew,
And they that were come to him they all were merry too.

Six days of grace are over, and there are left but three,
Three and no more. The Cid was warned upon his guard to be,
For the King said, if thereafter he should find him in the land,
Then neither gold nor silver should redeem him from his hand.
And now the day was over and night began to fall
His cavaliers unto him he summoned one and all:

"Hearken, my noble gentlemen. And grieve not in your care.
Few goods are mine, yet I desire that each should have his share.
As good men ought, be prudent. When the cocks crow at day,
See that the steeds are saddled, nor tarry nor delay.
In San Pedro to say matins the Abbot good will be;
He will say mass in our behalf to the Holy Trinity.
And when the mass is over, from the abbey let us wend,
For the season of our sufferance draws onward to an end.
And it is sure, moreover, that we have far to go."
Since so the Cid had ordered, they must do even so.
Night passed, and came the morning. The second cock he crew;
Forthwith upon the horses the caparisons they threw.

And the bells are rung for matins with all the haste they may.
My lord Cid and his lady to church they went their way.
On the steps Ximena cast herself, that stood the shrine before,
And to God passionately she prayed to guard the Campeador:

"Our Father who art in Heaven, such glory is in Thee!
Thou madest firmament and earth, on the third day the sea.
The stars and moon Thou madest, and the great sun to warm.
In the womb of Mary Mother, Thou tookest human form.
Thou didst appear in Bethlehem as was Thy will and choice.
And in Thy praise and glory shepherds lifted up their voice.
And thither to adore Thee from Arabia afar
Came forth the three kings, Caspar, Melchior and Balthasar.
And gold and myrrh and frankincense they proffered eagerly.
Thou didst spare the prophet Jonah when he fell into the sea.
And Thou didst rescue Daniel from the lions in the cave.
And, moreover, in Rome city Saint Sebastian didst Thou save.
From the sinful lying witness Saint Susanna didst Thou ward.
And years two and thirty didst Thou walk the Earth, our Lord,
Showing, the which all men take heed, Thy miracles divine.
Of the stone, bread Thou madest, and of the water, wine.
Thou didst raise up Saint Lazarus according to Thy will.
Thou didst let the Hebrews take Thee. On Calvary the hill,
In the place Golgotha by name, Thee, Lord, they crucified.
And the two thieves were with Thee, whom they hanged on either
side,
One is in heaven, the other he came not thereunto.
A miracle most mighty on the cross there didst Thou do.
Blind was Longinus never had seen from his birth-year.
The side of our Lord Jesus he pierced it with the spear.
Forth the blood issued swiftly, and ran down the shaft apace.
It stained his hands. He raised them and put them to his face.
Forthwith his eyes were opened and in every way might see.
He is ransomed from destruction for he straight believed on Thee.
From the sepulchre Thou rosest, and into Hell didst go,
According to Thy purpose, and its gates didst overthrow,
To bring forth the Holy Fathers. And King of Kings Thou art,
And of all the world the Father, and Thee with all my heart
Do I worship and acknowledge, and further I implore
That Saint Peter speed my prayer for the Cid Campeador,
That God keep his head from evil; and when this day we twain
Depart, then grant it to us that we meet in life again."

And now the prayer is over and the mass in its due course.
From church they came, and already were about to get to horse.
And the Cid clasped Ximena, but she, his hand she kissed.
Sore wept the Dame, in no way the deed to do she wist.
He turned unto his daughters and he looked upon the two:
"To the Spiritual Father, have I commended you.
We must depart. God knoweth when we shall meet again."
Weeping most sore--for never hast thou beheld such pain
As the nail from the flesh parteth, from each other did they part.

And Cid with all his vassals disposed himself to start,
And as he waited for them anew he turned his head,
Minaya AIvar Fanez then in good season said:

"Cid! Where is now thy courage? Upon a happy day
Wast thou born. Let us bethink us of the road and haste away.
A truce to this. Rejoicing out of these griefs shall grow.
The God who gave us spirits shall give us aid also."

Don Sancho the good Abbot, they charged him o'er again
To watch and ward Ximena and likewise her daughters twain,
And the ladies that were with them. That he shall have no lack
Of guerdon let the Abbot know. By this was he come back,
Then out spake Alvar Fanez: "Abbot, if it betide
That men should come desirous in our company to ride,
Bid them follow but be ready on a long road to go
Through the sown and through the desert; they may overtake us so."

They got them upon horseback, they let the rein go slack.
The time drew near when on Castile they needs must turn the back.
Spinaz de Can, it was the place where the Cid did alight.
And a great throng of people welcomed him there that night.
On the next day at morning, he got to horse once more,
And forth unto his exile rode the true Campeador.
To the left of San Estevan the good town did he wheel.
He marched through Alcobiella the frontier of Castile.
O'er the highway to Quinea his course then has he bent.
Hard by Navas de Palos o'er Duero stream he went.
All night at Figueruela did my lord the Cid abide.
And very many people welcomed him on every side..

XIX.
When it was night the Cid lay down. In a deep sleep he fell,
And to him in a vision came the angel Gabriel:

"Ride, Cid, most noble Campeador, for never yet did knight
Ride forth upon an hour whose aspect was so bright.
While thou shalt live good fortune shall be with thee and shine."
When he awoke, upon his face he made the holy sign.

XX.
He crossed himself, and unto God his soul commended then,
he was glad of the vision that had come into his ken
The next day at morning they began anew to wend.
Be it known their term of sufferance at the last has made an end.
In the mountains of Miedes the Cid encamped that night,
With the towers of Atienza where the Moors reign on the right.

XXI.
'Twas not yet come to sunset, and lingered still the day.
My lord the Cid gave orders his henchmen to array.
Apart from the footsoldiers, and valiant men of war,
There were three hundred lances that each a pennon bore.

XXII.
"Feed all the horses early, so may our God you speed.
Let him eat who will; who will not, let him get upon the steed.

We shall pass the mountain ranges rough and of dreadful height.
The land of King Alfonso we can leave behind tonight.
And whosoe'er will seek us shall find us ready then."

By night the mountain ranges he traversed with his men.
Morn came. From the hills downward they were about to fare.
In a marvelous great forest the Cid bade halt them there,
And to feed the horses early; and he told them all aright
In what way he was desirous that they should march by night.
They all were faithful vassals and gave assent thereto;
The behests of their great captain it behooved them all to do.
Ere night, was every man of them unto the riding fit.
So did the Cid that no man might perchance get wind of it.
They marched all through the night-tide and rested not at all.
Near Henares a town standeth that Castejon men call.
There the Cid went into ambush with the men of his array.

XXIII.
He couched there in the ambush till the breaking of the day.
This Minaya Alvar Fanez had counselled and had planned:

"Ha, Cid, in happy hour thou girdedst on the brand.
Thou with an hundred henchmen shalt abide to hold the rear.
Till we have drawn forth Castejon unto the bushment here.
But give me now two hundred men on a harrying raid to ride.
We shall win much if thy fortune and our God be on our side.

"Well didst thou speak, Minaya," the Campeador he said,
"Do thou with the two hundred ride on a harrying raid.
With Alvar Salvadorez, Alvar Alvarez shall advance,
likewise Galind Garciaz, who is a gallant lance.
Let them ride beside Minaya, each valiant cavalier.
Let them ride unfearing forward and turn from naught for fear.
Out unto Guadalajara, from Hita far and wide,
To Alcala the city forth let the harriers ride.
That they bring all the booty let them be very sure,
Let them leave naught behind them for terror of the Moor.
Here with an hundred lances in the rear will I remain,
And capture Castejon good store of provender to gain.
If thou come in any danger as thou ridest on the raid,
Send swiftly hither, and all Spain shall say how I gave aid."
Now all the men were chosen who on the raid should ride,
And those who in the rearguard with the lord Cid should abide.

And now the dawn was breaking and morning coming on,
And the sun rising. Very God! how beautifully it shone!
All men arose in Castejon, and wide they threw the gates;
And forth they went to oversee their farmlands and estates.
All were gone forth, and the gates stand open as they were thrown,
And but a little remnant were left in Castejon.
Round the city were the people scattered the whole country o'er.
Then forth out of the ambush issued the Campeador.
And without fail round Castejon he rushed along his way.
The Moors, both men and women, he took them for a prey,
And of their flocks as many as thereabouts there strayed.
My lord Cid don Rodrigo straight for the gateway made,
And they that held it, when they saw that swift attack begin,
Fled in great fear, and through the gates Roy Diaz entered in
With the sword naked in his hand; and fifteen Moors he slew
Whom he ran down. In Castejon much gold, and silver too,
He captured. Then unto him his knights the booty brought.
To my lord Cid they bore it. The spoil they valued naught.

Lo! the two hundred men and three to plunder that rode out,
Sped fearlessly, and ravaged the country roundabout.
For the banner of Minaya unto Alcala did gleam.
Then they bore home the booty up the Henares stream
Past Guadalajara. Booty exceeding great they bore
Of sheep and kine and vesture and of other wealth good store.
Straightway returned Minaya. None dared the rear attack.
With the treasure they had taken his company turned back.
Lo, they wore come to Castejon, where the Campeador abode.
He left the hold well guarded. Out from the place he rode.
With all his men about him to meet them did he come,
And with arms wide asunder welcomed Minaya home:

"Thou art come, Alvar Fanez, good lance thou art indeed.
Whereso I send thee, in such wise I well may hope to speed.
Put straightway al] together the spoil both shine and mine;
The fifth part of all, Minaya, an thou so desire, is thine."

XXIV.
"Much do I thank thee for it, illustrious Campeador.
With what thou giv'st me, the fifth part of all our spoils of war,
The King Alfonso of Castile full well content would be.
I renounce it in thy favor; and without a claim to thee.
But I swear to God who dwelleth in the high firmament,
That till upon my charger I gallop in content
Against the Moors, and till I wield both spear and brand again,
And till unto my elbow from the blade the blood doth drain
Before the Cid illustrious, howe'er so small it be,
I will not take the value of a copper groat from thee.
When through me some mighty treasure thou hast at thy command.
I will take thy gift; till such a time, all else is in thine
hand."

XXV.
They heaped the spoil together. Pondered the Cid my lord,
He who in happy hour had girded on the sword,
How tidings of his raiding to the King would come ere long,
And Alfonso soon would seek him with his host to do him wrong.
He bade his spoil-dividers make a division fair,
And furthermore in writing give to each man his share.
The fortune of each cavalier had sped exceeding well,
One hundred marks of silver to each of them there fell,
And each of the foot soldiers the half of that obtained.
A round fifth of the treasure for my lord the Cid remained
But here he could not sell it, nor in gifts give it away.
No captives, men or women, he desired in his array.
And with the men of Castejon he spoke to this intent
To Hita and Guadalajara ambassadors he sent
To find how high the ransom of the fifth part they would rate.
Even as they assessed it, his profit would be great.
Three thousand marks of silver the Moors agreed to pay.
The Cid was pleased. And duly was it paid on the third day.

My lord the Cid determined with all his men of war
That there within the castle they would abide no more,
And that they would have held it, but that water sore it lacked:

"Ye Moors are friendly to the King; even so runs the pact,
With his host will he pursue us. And I desire to flee
From Castejon; Minaya and my men, so hark to me;

XXVI.
"Nor take it ill, mine utterance. For here we cannot stay.
The king will come to seek us, for he is not far away;
But to destroy the castle seems in no way good to me.
An hundred Moorish women in that place I will set free
And of the Moors an hundred. Since there, as it befell,
I captured them. Hereafter shall they all speak of me well.
Ye all are paid; among you is no man yet to pay.
Let us on the morrow morning prepare to ride away,
For against my lord AIfonso the strife I would not stir."

What the Cid said was pleasing to his every follower.
Rich men they all departed from the hold that they had ta'en
And the Moors both men and women blessed them o'er and o'er again.

Up the Henares hastened they and hard they rode and strong.
They passed through the Alcarrias, and swift they marched along,
By the Caverns of Anquita they hastened on their way.
They crossed the stream. Into Taranz the great plain entered they,
And on down through that region as hard as they might fare.
Twixt Fariza and Cetina would the Cid seek shelter there.
And a great spoil he captured in the country as he went,
For the Moors had no inkling whatso'er of his intent.
On the next day marched onward the great Cid of Bivar,
And he went by Alhama, and down the vale afar.
And he passed Bubierca and Ateca likewise passed,
And it was nigh to Alcocer that he would camp at last
Upon a rounded hillock that was both strong and high.
They could not rob him of water; the Jalon it flowed hard by.
My lord Cid don Rodrigo planned to storm Alcocer.

XXVII. He pitched a strong encampment upon the hillock there,
Some men were toward the mountains, some by the stream arrayed.
The gallant Cid, who in good hour had girded on the blade,
Bade his men near the water dig a trench about the height,
That no man might surprise them by day nor yet by night.
So might men know that there the Cid had taken up his stand.

XXVIII.
And thereupon the tidings went out through all that land,
How my lord Cid the Campeador had there got footing sure,
He is gone forth from the Christians, he is come unto the Moor,
In his presence no man dareth plough the farmlands as of yore.
Very merry with his vassals was the great Campeador.
And Alcocer the Castle wider tribute had he laid.

XXIX.
In Alcocer the burghers to the Cid their tribute paid
And all the dwellers in Terrer and Teca furthermore.
And the townsmen of Calatayud, know well, it irked them sore.
Full fifteen weeks he tarried there, but the town yielded not.
And when he saw it forthwith the Cid devised a plot.
Save one left pitched behind him, he struck his every tent.
Then with his ensign lifted, down the Jalon he went,
With mail-shirts on and girded swords, as a wise man should him
bear.
To draw forth to his ambush the men of Alcocer.
And when they saw it, name of God! How glad was everyone!
"The provender and fodder of my lord the Cid are gone.
If he leaves one tent behind him, the burden is not light
Of the others that he beareth. He 'scapes like one in flight.
Let us now fall upon him, great profit shall we gain.
We shall win a mighty booty before he shall be ta'en
By them who have their dwelling in the city of Terrer;
For if by chance they take him, in the spoil we shall not share.
The tribute that he levied, double he shall restore."

Forth from the town of Alcocer in wild haste did they pour.
When the Cid saw them well without he made as if he fled;
With his whole host in confusion down the Jalon he sped.

"The prize 'scapes," cried the townsmen. Forth rushed both great
and small,
In the lust of conquest thinking of nothing else at all.
They left the gates unguarded, none watched them any more.
And then his face upon them turned the great Campeador,
He saw how twixt them and their hold there lay a mighty space;
He made them turn the standard. They spurred the steeds apace.
"Ho! cavaliers! Now swiftly let every man strike in,
By the Creator's favor this battle we shall win."
And there they gave them battle in the midmost of the mead.
Ah God! is the rejoicing on this morning great indeed.
The Cid and Alvar Fanez went spurring on ahead;
Know ye they had good horses that to their liking sped.
'Twixt the townsmen and the castle swiftly the way they broke.
And the Cid's henchmen merciless, came striking stroke on stroke,
In little space three hundred of the Moors they there have slain.
Loud was the shouting of the Moors in the ambush that were ta'en.
But the twain left them; on they rushed. Right for the hold they
made
And at the gate they halted, each with a naked blade.
Then up came the Cid's henchmen for the foe were all in flight.
Know ye the Cid has taken Alcocer by such a sleight.

XXX.
Per Vermudoz came thither who the Cid's flag did bear.
On the high place of the city he lifted it in air.
Outspoke the Cid Roy Diaz. Born in good hour was he:

"To God in Heaven and all his saints great thanks and praises be.
We shall better now our lodging for cavalier and steed."

XXXI.
Alvar Fanez and all ye my knights, now hearken and give heed
We have taken with the castle a booty manifold.
Dead are the Moors. Not many of the living I behold.
Surely we cannot sell them the women and the men;
And as for striking off their heads, we shall gain nothing then.
ln the hold let us receive them, for we have the upper hand.
When we lodge within their dwellings, they shall do as we
command."

XXXII.
The Cid with all his booty lieth in Alcocer.
He let the tent be sent for, that he left behind him there.
It irked the men of Teca, wroth in Terrer were they;
Know ye on all Calatayud sorely the thing did weigh.
To the Sovereign of Valencia they sent the news apace:
How that the King Alfonso hath banished in disgrace
One whom men call my lord the Cid, Roy Diaz of Bivar,
He came to lodge by Alcocer, and strong his lodgings are.
He drew them out to ambush; he has won the castle there.
"If thou aidest not needs must thou lose both Teca and Terrer,
Thou wilt have lost Calatayud that cannot stand alone.
All things will go to ruin on the banks of the Jalon,
And round about Jiloca on the far bank furthermore."

When the King Tamin had heard it, his heart was troubled sore:
"Here do I see three Moorish kings. Let two without delay
With three thousand Moors and weapons for the fight ride there
away;
Likewise they shall be aided by the men of the frontier.
See that ye take him living and bring him to me here.
He must pay for the realm's trespass till I be satisfied."

Three thousand Moors have mounted and fettled them to ride.
All they unto Segorbe have come to lodge that night.
The next day they got ready to ride at morning light.
In the evening unto Celfa they came the night to spend.
And there they have determined for the borderers to send.
Little enow they tarried; from every side they came.
Then they went forth from Celfa (of Canal it has its name),
Never a whit they rested, but marched the livelong day.
And that night unto their lodging in Calatayud came they.
And they sent forth their heralds through the length of all the
land.
A great and sovran army they gathered to their hand.
With the two Kings Fariz and Galve (these are the names they
bear).
They will besiege my noble lord the Cid in Alcocer.

XXXIII.
They pitched the tents and got them to their lodging there and
then.
Strong grew their bands for thereabouts was found great store of
men.
Moreover all the outposts, which the Moors set in array,
Marched ever hither and thither in armour night and day.
And many are the outposts, and great that host of war.
From the Cid's men, of water have they cut off all the store.
My lord the Cid's brave squadrons great lust to fight they had,
But he who in good hour was born firmly the thing forbade.
For full three weeks together they hemmed the city in.

XXXIV.
When three weeks were well nigh over and the fourth would soon
begin,
My lord Cid and his henchmen agreed after this guise:

"They have cut us off from water; and our food must fail likewise.
They will not grant unto us that we depart by night,
And very great is their power for us to face and fight.
My knights what is your pleasure, now say, that we shall do.?
Then first outspake Minaya the good knight and the true:

"Forth from Castile the noble unto this place we sped;
If with the Moors we fight not, they will not give us bread.
Here are a good six hundred and some few more beside.
In the name of the Creator let nothing else betide:
Let us smite on them tomorrow."

The Campeador said he:
"Minaya Alvar Fanez, thy speaking liketh me.
Thou hast done thyself much honor, as of great need thou must."

All the Moors, men and women, he bade them forth to thrust
That none his secret counsel might understand aright
And thereupon they armed them all through that day and night.
And the next day in the dawning when soon the sun should rise,
The Cid was armed and with him all the men of his emprise.
My lord the Cid spake to them even as you shall hear.

"Let all go forth, let no one here tarry in the rear,
Save only two footsoldiers the gates to watch and shield.
They will capture this our castle, if we perish in the field;
But if we win, our fortunes shall grow both great and fair.
Per Vermudoz, my banner I bid thee now to bear;
As thou art very gallant, do thou keep it without stain.
But unless I so shall order thou shalt not loose the rein."

He kissed the Cid's hand. Forth he ran the battle-flag to take.
They oped the gates, and outward in a great rush did they break.
And all the outposts of the Moor beheld them coming on,
And back unto the army forthwith they got them gone.
What haste there was among the Moors! To arm they turned them
back.
With the thunder of the war-drum the earth was like to crack.
There might you see Moors arming, that swift their ranks did
close.
Above the Moorish battle two flags-in-chief arose,
But of their mingling pennons the number who shall name?
Now all the squadrons of the Moors marching right onward came,
That the Cid and all his henchmen they might capture out of hand.

"My gallant men here in this place see that ye firmly stand,
Let no man leave the war-ranks till mine order I declare."

Per Vermudoz, he found it too hard a thing to bear,
He spurred forth with the banner that in his hand he bore:

"May the Creator aid thee, thou true Cid Campeador,
Through the line of battle yonder thy standard I will take;
I shall see how you bring succor, who must for honor's sake."
Said the Campeador: "Of charity, go not to the attack."
For answer said Per Vermudoz: "Is naught shall hold me back."
Spurring the steed he hurled him through the strong line of the
foes.
The serried Moors received him and smote him mighty blows,
To take from him the banner; yet they could not pierce his mail.
Said the Campeador: "Of charity go help him to prevail."

XXXV.
Before their breasts the war-shields there have they buckled
strong,
The lances with the pennons they laid them low along,
And they have bowed their faces over the saddlebow,
And thereaway to strike them with brave hearts did they go.
He who in happy hour was born with a great voice did call:

"For the love of the Creator, smite them, my gallants ah.
I am Roy Diaz of Bivar, the Cid, the Campeador."

At the rank where was Per Vermudoz the mighty strokes they bore.
They are three hundred lances that each a pennon bear.
At one blow every man of them his Moor has slaughtered there,
And when they wheeled to charge anew as many more were slain.

XXXV.
You might see great clumps of lances lowered and raised again,
And many a shield of leather pierced and shattered by the stroke,
And many a coat of mail run through, its meshes all to-broke,
And many a white pennon come forth all red with blood,
And running without master full many a charger good.

Cried the Moors "Mahound!" The Christians shouted on Saint James
of grace.
On the field Moors thirteen hundred were slain in little space.

XXXVII.
On his gilded selle how strongly fought the Cid, the splendid
knight.
And Minaya Alvar Fanez who Zorita held of right,
And brave Martin Antolinez that in Burgos did abide,
And likewise Muno Gustioz, the Cid's esquire tried!
So also Martin Gustioz who ruled Montemayor,
And by Alvar Salvadorez Alvar Alvarez made war
And Galind Garciaz the good knight that came from Aragon,
There too came Felez Munoz the Cid his brother's son.
As many as were gathered there straightway their succor bore,
And they sustained the standard and the Cid Campeador.

XXXVIII.
Of Minaya Alvar Fanez the charger they have slain
The gallant bands of Christians came to his aid amain.
His lance was split and straightway he set hand upon the glaive,
What though afoot, no whit the less he dealt the buffets brave.
The Cid, Roy Diaz of Castile, saw how the matter stood.
He hastened to a governor that rode a charger good.
With his right hand he smote him such a great stroke with the
sword
That the waist he clave; the half of him he hurled unto the sward.
To Minaya Alvar Fanez forthwith he gave the steed.
"Right arm of mine, Minaya, now horse thee with all speed!
I shall have mighty succor from thee this very day.

The Moors leave not the battle; firm standeth their array,
And surely it behooves us to storm their line once more."

Sword in hand rode Minaya; on their host he made great war,
Whom he overtook soever, even to death he did.
He who was born in happy hour, Roy Diaz, my lord Cid,
Thrice smote against King Fariz. Twice did the great strokes fail,
But the third found the quarry. And down his shirt of mail
Streamed the red blood. To leave the field he wheeled his horse
away.
By that one stroke the foeman were conquered in the fray.

XXXIX.
And Martin Antolinez a heavy stroke let drive
At Galve. On his helmet the rubies did he rive;
The stroke went through the helmet for it reached unto the flesh.
Be it known, he dared not tarry for the man to strike afresh.
King Fariz and King Galve, but beaten men are they.
What a great day for Christendom! On every side away
Fled the Moors. My lord Cid's henchmen still striking gave them
chase.
Into Terrer came Fariz, but the people of the place
Would not receive King Galve. As swiftly as he might
Onward unto Calatayud he hastened in his flight.
And after him in full pursuit came on the Campeador.
Till they came unto Calatayud that chase they gave not o'er.

XL.
Minaya Alvar Fanez hath a horse that gallops well.
Of the Moors four and thirty that day before him fell.
And all his arm was bloody, for 'tis a biting sword;
And streaming from his elbow downward the red blood poured.
Said Minaya: "Now am I content; well will the rumor run
To Castile, for a pitched battle my lord the Cid hath won."
Few Moors are left, so many have already fallen dead,
For they who followed after slew them swiftly as they fled.
He who was born in happy hour came with his host once more.
On his noble battle-charger rode the great Campeador.
His coif was wrinkled. Name of God! but his great beard was fair.
His mail-hood on his shoulders lay. His sword in hand he bare.
And he looked upon his henchmen and saw them drawing nigh:

"Since we ha' won such a battle, glory to God on high!"

The Cid his henchmen plundered the encampment far and wide
Of the shields and of the weapons and other wealth beside.
Of the Moors they captured there were found five hundred steeds
and ten.
And there was great rejoicing among those Christian men,
And the lost of their number were but fifteen all told.
They brought a countless treasure of silver and of gold.
Enriched were all those Christians with the spoil that they had
ta'en
And back unto their castle they restored the Moors again;
To give them something further he gave command and bade.
With all his train of henchmen the Cid was passing glad.
He gave some monies, some much goods to be divided fair,
And full an hundred horses fell to the Cid's fifth share.
God's name! his every vassal nobly did he requite,
Not only the footsoldiers but likewise every knight.
He who in happy hour was born wrought well his government,
And all whom he brought with him therewith were well content.

"Harken to me, Minaya, my own right arm art thou.
Of the wealth, wherewith our army the Creator did endow,
Take in thine hand whatever thou deemest good to choose.
To Castile I fain would send thee to carry there the news
Of our triumph. To Alphonso the King who banished me
A gift of thirty horses I desire to send with thee.
Saddled is every charger, each steed is bridled well.
There hangeth a good war-sword at the pommel of each selle."
Said Minaya Alvar Fanez: "I will do it with good cheer.

XLI.
"Of the gold and the fine silver, behold a bootful here.
Nothing thereto is lacking. Thou shalt pay the money down
At Saint Mary's Church for masses fifty score in Burgos town;
To my wife and to my daughters the remainder do thou bear.
Let them offer day and night for me continually their prayer.
If I live, exceeding wealthy all of those dames shall be.

XLII.
Minaya Alvar Fanez, therewith content was he.
They made a choice of henchmen along with him to ride.
They fed the steeds. Already came on the eventide.
Roy Diaz would decide it with his companions leal.

XLIII.
"Dost thou then go, Minaya, to the great land of Castile
And unto our well-wishers with a clear heart canst thou say:
'God granted us his favor, and we conquered in the fray?'
If returning thou shalt find us here in this place, 'tis well;
If not, where thou shalt hear of us, go seek us where we dwell.
For we must gain our daily bread with the lance and with the
brand,
Since otherwise we perish here in a barren land.
And therefore as methinketh, we must get hence away."

XLIV.
So was it, and Minaya went at the break of day.
But there behind the Campeador abode with all his band.
And waste was all the country, an exceeding barren land.
Each day upon my lord the Cid there in that place they spied,
The Moors that dwelt on the frontier and outlanders beside.
Healed was King Fariz. With him they held a council there,
The folk that dwelt in Teca and the townsmen of Terrer,
And the people of Calatayud, of the three the fairest town.
In such wise have they valued it and on parchment set it down
That for silver marks three thousand Alcocer the Cid did sell.

XLV.
Roy Diaz sold them Alcocer. How excellently well
He paid his vassals! Horse and foot he made them wealthy then,
And a poor man you could not find in all his host of men.
In joy he dwelleth aye who serves a lord of noble heart.

XLVI.
When my lord the Cid was ready from the Castle to depart,
The Moors both men and women cried out in bitter woe:
"Lord Cid art thou departing? Still may our prayers go
Before thy path, for with thee we are full well content."
For my lord the great Cid of Bivar, when from Alcocer he went,
The Moors both men and women made lamentation sore.
He lifted up the standard, forth marched the Campeador.
Down the Jalon he hastened, on he went spurring fast.
He saw birds of happy omen, as from the stream he passed.
Glad were the townsmen of Terrer that he had marched away,
And the dwellers in Calatayud were better pleased than they.
But in the town of Alcocer 'twas grief to all and one,
For many a deed of mercy unto them the Cid had done.
My lord the Cid spurred onward. Forward apace he went;
'Twas near to the hill Monreal that he let pitch his tent.
Great is the hill and wondrous and very high likewise.
Be it known from no quarter doth he need to dread surprise.
And first he forced Doroca tribute to him to pay,
And then levied on Molina on the other side that lay,
Teruel o'er against him to submit he next compelled
And lastly Celfa de Canal within his power he held.

XLVII.
May my lord the Cid, Roy Diaz, at all times God's favor feel.
Minaya Alvar Fanez has departed to Castile.
To the King thirty horses for a present did he bring.
And when he had beheld them beautifully smiled the King:
"Who gave thee these, Minaya, so prosper thee the Lord?"
"Even the Cid Roy Diaz, who in good hour girded sword.
Since you banished him, by cunning has he taken Alcocer.
To the King of Valencia the tidings did they bear.
He bade that they besiege him; from every water-well
They cut him off. He sallied forth from the citadel,
In the open field he fought them, and he beat in that affray
Two Moorish kings he captured, sire, a very mighty prey.
Great King, this gift he sends thee. Thine hands and feet also
He kisses. Show him mercy; such God to thee shall show."
Said the King:
"'Tis over early for one banished, without grace
In his lord's sight, to receive it at the end of three week's
space.
But since 'tis Moorish plunder to take it I consent.
That the Cid has taken such a spoil, I am full well content.
Beyond all this. Minaya. thine exemption I accord,
For all thy lands and honors are unto thee restored.
Go and come! Henceforth my favor I grant to thee once more.
But to thee I say nothing of the Cid Campeador.

XLVIII.
"Beyond this, Alvar Fanez, I am fain to tell it thee
That whosoever in my realm in that desire may be,
Let them, the brave and gallant, to the Cid betake them straight.
I free them and exempt them both body and estate."
Minaya Alvar Fanez has kissed the King's hands twain:

"Great thanks, as to my rightful lord I give thee, King, again.
This dost thou now, and better yet as at some later hour.
We shall labor to deserve it, if God will give us power."
Said the King: "Minaya, peace for that. Take through Castile thy
way.
None shall molest. My lord the Cid seek forth without delay."

XLIX.
Of him I fain would tell you in good hour that girt the blade.
The hill, where his encampment in that season he had made,
While the Moorish folk endureth, while there are Christians still,
Shall they ever name in writing 'My Lord the Cid, his Hill.'
While he was there great ravage in all the land he made,
Under tribute the whole valley of the Martin he laid.
And unto Zaragoza did the tidings of him go,
Nor pleased the Moors; nay rather they were filled with grievous
woe.
For fifteen weeks together my lord Cid there did stay.
When the good knight saw how greatly Minaya did delay,
Then forth with all his henchmen on a night march he tried.
And he left all behind him, and forsook the mountain side,
Beyond the town of Teruel good don Rodrigo went.
In the pine grove of Tevar Roy Diaz pitched his tent.
And all the lands about him he harried in the raid,
And on Zaragoza city a heavy tribute laid.

When this he had accomplished and three weeks had made an end,
Out of Castile Minaya unto the Cid did wend.
Two hundred knights were with him that had belted on the brands.
Know ye well that there were many foot-soldiers in his bands.
When the Cid saw Minaya draw near unto his view,
With his horse at a full gallop to embrace the man he flew.
He kissed his mouth, his very eyes in that hour kissed the Cid.
And then all things he told him, for naught from him he hid.
Then beautifully upon him smiled the good Campeador:
"God and his righteousness divine be greatly praised therefor.
While thou shalt live, Minaya, well goeth this my game."

L.
God! How happy was the army that thus Minaya came,
For of them they left behind them he brought the tidings in,
From comrade and from brethren and the foremost of their kin.

LI.
But God! What a glad aspect the Cid fair-bearded wore
That duly had Minaya paid for masses fifty score,
And of his wife and daughters all of the state displayed!
God! How content was he thereat! What noble cheer he made!

"Ha! Alvar Fanez, many now may thy life-days be.
What fair despatch thou madest! Thou art worth more than we."

LII.
And he who in good hour was born tarried in no way then,
But he took knights two hundred, and all were chosen men;
And forth when fell the evening a-raiding did they haste.
At Alcaniz the meadows the Campeador laid waste,
And gave all places round about to ravage and to sack.
On the third day to whence he came the Cid again turned back.

LIII.
Thro' all the country roundabout have the tidings of them flown.
It grieved the men of Huesca and the people of Monzon.
Glad were they in Zaragoza since the tribute they had paid,
For outrage at Roy Diaz's hand no whit were they afraid.

LIV.
Then back to their encampment they hastened with their prey.
All men were very merry for a mighty spoil had they.
The Cid was glad exceeding; Alvar Fanez liked it well.
But the great Cid smiled, for there at ease he could not bear to
dwell.

"Ha! All my knights, unto you the truth will I confess:
Who still in one place tarries, his fortune will grow less.
Let us tomorrow morning prepare to ride apace,
Let us march and leave forever our encampment in this place."
Unto the pass of Alucat the lord Cid got him gone.
Then to Huesca and to Montalban he hastily marched on.
And ten full days together on that raid they were to ride.
The tidings to all quarters went flying far and wide,
how that the Exile from Castile great harm to them had done.

LV.
Afar into all quarters did the tidings of him run.
They brought the message to the Count of Barcelona's hand,
How that the Cid Roy Diaz was o'errunning all the land.
He was wroth. For a sore insult the tiding did he take.

LVI.
The Count was a great braggart and an empty word he spake:
"Great wrongs he put upon me, he of Bivar, the Cid.
Within my very palace much shame to me he did:
He gave no satisfaction though he struck my brother's son;
And the lands in my keeping now doth he over-run.
I challenged him not; our pact of peace I did not overthrow;
But since he seeks it of me, to demand it I will go."

He gathered the his powers that were exceeding strong,
Great bands of Moors and Christians to his array did throng.
After the lord Cid of Bivar they went upon their way,
Three nights and days together upon the march were they.
At length in Tevar's pine grove the Cid they have o'erta'en.
So strong were they that captive to take him were they fain.

My lord Cid don Rodrigo bearing great spoil he went.
From the ridge unto the valley he had finished the descent.
And in that place they bore him Count don Remond his word.
My lord Cid sent unto him when the message he had heard:

"Say to the Count that it were well his anger now should cease.
No goods of his I carry. Let him leave me in peace."

Thereto the Count gave answer: "Not so the matter ends.
For what was and is of evil he shall make me full amends.
The Exile shall know swiftly whom he has sought to slight."

Back hastened the ambassador as swiftly as he might.
And then my lord Cid of Bivar knew how the matter lay,
And that without a battle they could not get away.

LVII.
"Ha! lay aside your booty now, every cavalier,
And take in hand your weapons, and get on your battle-gear.
Count don Remond against us will deliver battle strong;
Great bands of Moors and Christians he brings with him along.
He will not for any reason without fighting let us go.
Here let us have the battle since they pursue us so.
So get you on your armour and girth the horses tight.
Down the hill they come in hosen and their saddles are but light,
And loose their girths. Each man of us has a Galician selle,
And moreover with the jackboots are our hosen covered well.
We should beat them though we numbered but fivescore cavaliers.
Before they reach the level, let us front them with the spears.
For each you strike three saddles thereby shall empty go.
Who was the man he hunted, Remond Berenguel shall know
This day in Tevar's pine grove, who would take from me my prey."

LVIII.
When thus the Cid had spoken, were all in good array;
They had taken up their weapons and each had got to horse.
They beheld the Frankish army down the hill that held its course.
And at the end of the descent, close to the level land,
The Cid who in good hour was born, to charge them gave command.
And this did his good henchmen perform with all their heart;
With the pennons and the lances they nobly played their part,
Smiting at some, and others overthrowing in their might.
He who was born in happy hour has conquered in the fight.
There the Count don Remond he took a prisoner of war,
And Colada the war-falchion worth a thousand marks and more.

LIX.
By the victory there much honor unto his beard he did.
And then the Count to his own tent was taken by the Cid.
He bade his squires guard him. From the tent he hastened then.
From every side together about him came his men.
The Cid was glad, so mighty were the spoils of that defeat.
For the lord Cid don Rodrigo they prepared great stock of meat.
But namely the Count don Remond, thereby he set no store.
To him they brought the viands, and placed them him before.
He would not eat, and at them all he mocked with might and main:

"I will not eat a mouthful for all the wealth in Spain;
Rather will I lose my body and forsake my soul forby,
Since beaten in the battle by such tattered louts was I."

LX.
My lord the Cid Roy Diaz you shall hearken what he said:
"Drink of the wine I prithee, Count, eat also of the bread.
If this thou dost, no longer shalt thou be a captive then;
If not, then shalt thou never see Christendom again."

LXI.
"Do thou eat, don Rodrigo, and prepare to slumber sweet.
For myself I will let perish, and nothing will I eat."
And in no way were they able to prevail till the third day,
Nor make him eat a mouthful while they portioned the great prey.

LXII.
"Ho! Count, do thou eat somewhat," even so my lord Cid spoke,
"If thou dost not eat, thou shalt not look again on Christian
folk;
If in such guise thou eatest that my will is satisfied,
Thyself, Count, and, moreover, two noblemen beside
Will I make free of your persons and set at liberty."

And when the Count had heard it exceeding glad was he.
"Cid, if thou shalt perform it, this promise thou dost give,
Thereat I much shall marvel as long as I shall live."
"Eat then, oh Count; when fairly thy dinner thou hast ta'en
I will then set at liberty thee and the other twain.
But what in open battle thou didst lose and I did earn,
Know that not one poor farthing's worth to thee will I return,
For I need it for these henchmen who hapless follow me.
They shall be paid with what I win from others as from thee.
With the Holy Father's favor we shall live after this wise,
Like banished men who have not any grace in the King's eyes."

Glad was the Count. For water he asked his hands to lave.
And that they brought before him, and quickly to him gave.
The Count of Barcelona began to eat his fill
With the men the Cid had given him, and God! with what a will!
He who in happy hour was born unto the Count sate near:

"Ha! Count, if now thou dinest not with excellent good cheer,
And to my satisfaction, here we shall still delay,
And we twain in no manner shall go forth hence away."
Then said the Count: "Right gladly and according to my mind! "
With his two knights at that season in mighty haste he dined.
My lord the Cid was well content that all his eating eyed,
For the Count don Remond his hands exceeding nimbly plied.

"If thou art pleased, my lord the Cid, in guise to go are we.
Bid them bring to us our horses; we will mount speedily.
Since I was first Count, never have I dined with will so glad,
Nor shall it be forgotten what joy therein I had."

They gave to them three palfreys. Each had a noble selle.
Good robes of fur they gave them, and mantles fair as well.
Count don Remond rode onward with a knight on either side.
To the camp's end the Castilian along with them did ride.

"Ha! Count, forth thou departest to freedom fair and frank;
For what thou hast left with me I have thee now to thank.
If desire to avenge it is present to thy mind,
Send unto me beforehand when thou comest me to find.
Either that thou wilt leave thy goods or part of mine wilt seize."

"Ha! my lord Cid, thou art secure, be wholly at thine ease.
Enough have I paid to thee till all this year be gone.
As for coming out to find thee, I will not think thereon."

LXIII.
The Count of Barcelona spurred forth. Good speed he made.
Turning his head he looked at them, for he was much afraid
Lest my lord the Cid repent him; the which the gallant Cid
Would not have done for all the world. Base deed he never did.
The Count is gone. He of Bivar has turned him back again;
He began to be right merry, and he mingled with his train.
Most great and wondrous was the spoil that they had won in war,
So rich were his companions that they knew not what they bore.

CANTAR II

THE MARRIAGE OF THE CID'S DAUGHTERS

LXIV.
Here of my lord Cid of Bivar begins anew the Song.
Within the pass of Alucat my lord Cid made him strong,
He has left Zaragoza and the lands that near it lie,
And all the coasts of Montalban and Huesca he passed by,
And unto the salt ocean he began the way to force.
In the East the sun arises; thither he turned his course.
On Jerica and Almenar and Onda he laid hand,
Round about Borriana he conquered all the land.

LXV.
God helped him, the Creator in Heaven that doth dwell
Beside these Murviedro hath the Cid ta'en as well.
Then that the Lord was on his side, the Cid beheld it clear.
In the city of Valencia arose no little fear.

LXVI.
It irked them in Valencia. It gave them no delight,
Be it known; that to surround him they planned. They marched by
night
They pulled up at Murviedro to camp as morning broke.
My lord the Cid beheld it and wondering much he spoke:
"Father in Heaven, mighty thanks must I now proffer Thee.
In their lands we dwell and do them every sort of injury;
And we have drunk their liquor, of their bread our meal we make.
If they come forth to surround us, justly they undertake.
Without a fight this matter will in no way be a-paid.
Let messengers go seek them who now should bear us aid;
Let them go to them in Jerica and Alucat that are
And thence to Onda. Likewise let them go to Almenar.
Let the men of Borriana hither at once come in.
In this place a pitched battle we shall certainly begin.
I trust much will be added to our gain in this essay."

They all were come together in his host on the third day.
And he who in good hour was born 'gan speak his meaning clear:

"So may the Creator aid us, my gallants hark and hear.
Since we have left fair Christendom--We did not as we would;
We could no other--God be praised our fortune has been good.
The Valencians besiege us. If here we would remain,
They must learn of us a lesson excelling in its pain.

LXVII.
"Let the night pass and morning come. Look that ye ready be
With arms and horses. We will forth that host of theirs to see.'.
Like men gone out in exile into a strange empire,
There shall it be determined who is worthy of his hire."

VIII.
Minaya Alvar Fanez, hark what he said thereto:
"Ho! Campeador, thy pleasure in all things may we do.
Give me of knights an hundred, I ask not one other man.
And do thou with the others smite on them in the van
While my hundred storm their rearward, upon them thou shalt
thrust--
Ne'er doubt it. We shall triumph as in God is all my trust."
Whatsoever he had spoken filled the Cid with right good cheer

And now was come the morning, and they donned their battle gear.
What was his task of battle every man of them did know.
At the bleak of day against them forth did the lord Cid go.
"In God's name and Saint James', my knights, strike hard into the
war,
And manful. The lord Cid am I, Roy Diaz of Bivar!"

You might see a many tent-ropes everywhither broken lie,
And pegs wrenched up; the tent-posts on all sides leaned awry.
The Moors were very many. To recover they were fain,
But now did Alvar Fanez on their rearward fall amain.
Though bitterly it grieved them, they had to fly and yield.
Who could put trust in horsehoofs, and forthwith fled the field.
Two kings of the Moriscos there in the rout they slew;
And even to Valencia the chase did they pursue.
And mighty is the booty my lord the Cid had ta 'en.
They ravaged all the country and then turned back again.
They brought to Murviedro the booty of the foes.
And great was the rejoicing in the city that arose.
Cebolla have they taken and all the lands anear.
In Valencia they knew not what to do for very fear.
Of my lord Cid the great tidings, be it known, on all sides
spread.

LXIX.
His renown afar is spreading. Beyond the sea it sped.
Glad were the companies the Cid a glad man was he
That God had given him succor and gained that victory.
And they sent forth their harriers. By night they marched away,
They reached unto Cullera, and to Jativa came they.
And ever downward even to Denia town they bore.
And all the Moorish country by the sea he wasted sore.
Penacadell, outgoing and entrance, have they ta'en.

LXX.
When the Cid took Penacadell, it was great grief and pain
To them who in Cullera and in Jativa did dwell,
And sorrow without measure in Valencia befell.

LXXI.
Three years those towns to conquer in the Moorish land he bode,
Winning much; by day he rested, and at night was on the road.

LXXll.
On the dwellers in Valencia they wrought chastisement sore,
From the town they dared not sally against him to make war.
He harried all their gardens and a mighty ruin made;
And all those years their harvest in utter waste he laid.
Loud lamented the Valencians, for sore bested they were,
Nor could find in any quarter any sort of provender;
Nor could the father aid the son, nor the son aid the sire,
Nor comrade comfort comrade. Gentles, 'tis hardship dire
To lack for bread, and see our wives and children waste away.
They saw their own affliction and no hope of help had they.

To the King of Morocco had they sent the tidings on.
'Gainst the lord of Montes Claros on a great war was he gone.
He counselled not. He came not to aid them in the war.

My lord the Cid had heard it. His heart was glad therefor;
And forth from Murviedro he marched away by night.
He was in the fields of Monreal at the breaking of the light.
Through Aragon the tidings he published, and Navarre,
And through the Marches of Castile he spread the news afar:
Who poverty would put away and riches would attain,
Let him seek the Cid, whoever of a soldier's life is fain.
Valencia to beleaguer he desireth to go down,
That he may unto the Christians deliver up the town

LXXIII.
"Valencia to beleaguer, who fain would march with me
Let none come hither to me, if his choice be not free.
Is nought that may compel him along with me to fare--
Canal de Celfa for three days I will tarry for him there."

LXXIV.
So my lord Cid hath spoken, the loyal Campeador.
He turned back to Murviedo that he had ta'en in war.
Be it known into all quarters went the word forth. None were fain
To delay who smelt the plunder. Crowds thronged to him amain,
Good christened folk, and ringing went his tidings far and wide;
And more men came unto him than departed from his side.
He of Bivar, my lord the Cid, great growth of riches had.
When he saw the bands assembled, he began to be right glad.
My lord Cid, don Rodrigo, for nothing would delay.
He marched against Valencia and smote on it straightway.
Well did the Cid surround it; till the leaguer closed about.
He thwarted their incomings, he checked their goings out.
To seek for alien succor he gave them time of grace;
And nine full months together he sat down before the place,
And when thc tenth was coming, to yield it were they fain.

And great was the rejoicing in the city that did reign,
When the lord Cid took Valencia and within the town had won.
All of his men were cavaliers that erst afoot had gone.
Who the worth of gold and silver for your pleasure could declare?
They all were rich together as many as were there.
For himself the Cid Rodrigo took the fifth part of all,
And coined marks thirty thousand unto his share did fall.
Who could tell the other treasure? Great joy the Cid befell
And his men, when the flag-royal tossed o'er the citadel.

LXXV.
The Cid and his companions they rested in the place
Unto the King of Seville the tiding came apace:
Ta'en is Valencia city; for him 'tis held no more.

With thirty thousand armed men he came to look them o'er.
Nigh to the plain a battle they pitched both stiff and strong.
But the lord Cid long-bearded hath overthrown that throng.
And even unto Jativa in a long rout they poured.
You might have seen all bedlam on the Jucar by the ford,
For there the Moors drank water but sore against their will.
With bet thee strokes upon him 'scaped the Sovereign of Seville.
And then with all that booty the Cid came home again.
Great was Valencia's plunder what time the town was ta'en,
But that the spoils of that affray were greater yet, know well.
An hundred marks of silver to each common soldier fell.
How had shed that noble's fortune now lightly may you guess.

LXXVI.
There was among those Christians excelling happiness
For my lord Roy Diaz that was born in a season of good grace.
And now his beard was growing; longer it grew apace.
For this the Cid had spoken, this from his mouth said he,
"By my love for King Alphonso the king who banished me,"
That the shears should not shear it, nor a single hair dispart,
That so the Moors and Christians might ponder it at heart.

And resting in Valencia did the lord Cid abide,
With Minaya Alvar Fanez who would not leave his side.
They who went forth to exile of riches had good store.
To all men in Valencia, the gallant Campeador
Gave houses and possessions whereof they were right glad.
All men of the Cid's bounty good testimony had.
And of them that had come later well content was every one.
My lord Cid saw it plainly that they fain would get them gone,
With the goods that they had taken, if unhindered they might go.
The lord Cid gave his order (Minaya counselled so)
That if any man that with him in richer case did stand
Should take his leave in secret and fail to kiss his hand,
If they might overtake him and catch him as he fled,
They would seize his goods and bring him unto the gallows-head.
Lo! was it well looked after. Counsel he took again
With Minaya Alvar Fanez "An it be that thou art fain,
Gladly would I know, Minaya, what may the number be
Of my henchmen, as at present, that have gained aught by me.
I shall set it down in writing. Let them well the number scan,
Lest one depart in secret and I should miss the man.
To me and my companions his goods shall be restored,
All they who guard Valencia and keep the outer ward.

"The measure is well counselled," said Minaya therewithal.

LXXVII.
He bade them meet together at the palace, in the hall.
When he found them met together he had them numbered o'er.
Bivar's great Cid had with him thousands three, and thirty score.
His heart was glad within him, and a smile was on his face.
"Thanks be to God, Minaya, and to Mary Mother's grace.
Out from Bivar the city we led a lesser power.
Wealth have we, and shall have greater as at some later hour.

"Minaya, if it please thee, if it seemeth good to thee,
To Castile I fain would send thee, where our possessions be,
Unto the King Alphonso that is my lord by right.
Out of the mighty plunder we won here in the fight
I would give him five score horses, the which to him now take;
kiss thou his hand and earnestly plead with him for the sake
Of my wife Ximena and the twain, maids of my blood that be,
If yet it be his pleasure that they be brought to me.

I will send for them. But be it known how this my message runs:
The lady of my lord the Cid and her maids, my little ones,
Men shall seek for in such fashion that
They shall come to the strange country we have conquered by our
might."

To him Minaya answered: "Yea and with right good heart."
After they thus had spoken they got ready to depart.
The Cid to Alvar Fanez an hundred men decreed
To do his will, and serve him on the journey at his need.
And he bade give to San Pedro marks of silver fifty score,
And beside to Abbot Sancho a full five hundred morn

LXXVIII.
Of these things while they were joyous, came thither from the
East,
A clerk, the Bishop don Jerome, so all men called that priest.
Excelling was his knowledge, and prudent was his rede,
'Twas a mighty man of valor afoot or on the steed.
Of the Cid's deeds the tidings he was seeking to procure,
And he yearned sore, ever sighing for battle with the Moor.
If his fill of fight and wounding with his hands he e'er should
get,
Therefore a Christian never need have reason for regret.
When my lord the Cid had heard it, he was well pleased thereby:

"Hark, Minaya Alvar Fanez, by him who is on high,
When the Lord God would aid us, let us give Him thanks again. .
Round Valencia a bishopric to stablish I am fain,
And I will further give it unto this Christian leal.
Thou shalt bear with thee good tidings when thou goest to
Castile."

LXXIX.
Of that saying Alvar Fanez was glad when the Cid spake.
Don Jerome his ordination there and then they undertake.
In Valencia great riches have they given to his hand.
God! how merry was all Christendom that now within the land
Of Valencia a bishop of reverend grace had they!
Glad therefore was Minaya and took leave and went his way.

LXXX.
And now is all Valencia in peaceable estate.
Minaya Alvar Fanez to Castile departed straight;
His halts I will pass over, nor renew them to the mind.
But he sought out Alphonso where the King was to find.
The King to Sahagun had gone before some little space,
But was come back to Carrion; he might find him in that place.
Minaya Alvar Fanez was glad when this was known.
With his presents he departed forthwith to Carrion.

LXXXI.
Now whn the mass was over, thence did Alfonso rise,
And Minaya Alvar Fanez came there in noble guise..
In the presence of the people he kneeled upon his knee
He fell at don Alphonso's foot, and bitter tears shed he.
He kissed his hands; unto the King most lovely words he spake:

LXXII.
"A boon my lord Alfonso for the Creator's sake!
My lord Cid of the battles has kissed thy hands ere now,
Thy hands and thy feet likewise, for his noble lord art thou,
If thou favorest him, God's favor come upon thee from above.
Thou didst send him into exile and bearest him no love,
Though in strange lands he thriveth. Jerica he won in war
And Onda, so they call it; so also Almenar